This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

- LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE.
R. 8 W. T. 32 S.
T. 33 S. R. 9W. T. 34 S. R. 10 W.

 

R. 7 W.

R. 6 W

T. 31 S.LL.
R. 5 W. R 42 W. R. 4 W.

R.13 W --

.MGeuriiddeian

1 4-7

7th Standard Parallel South.

.MPGaKeunarnidnigdaduebiiatnch Panquich

T. 39 S.
The statutes at large of the United States from ...
United States

TFA C V. 34 part 3


THE
STATUTES AT LARGE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FROM
DECEMBER, 1905 , TO MARCH , 1907 CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS OF, THE TWO HOUSES OF CONGRESS
AND RECENT TREATIES, CONVENTIONS, AND EXECUTIVE
PROCLAMATIONS
EDITED, PRINTED, AND PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF CONGRESS UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE
VOL. XXXIV - IN THREE PARTS
PART 3 Recent Treaties, Conventions, and Proclamations
INDEX
WASHINGTON GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
1907

I H

LIST OF TREATIES AND CONVENTIONS.

Page.

International arbitration ofpecuniary claims. Treaty between the United States and certain powers for the arbitration of pecuniary claims. Signed at Mexico, January 30, 1902; ratification

advised by the Senate, January 11 , 1905 ; ratified by the President of the United States,

January 28, 1905; ratification deposited with the Mexican Government, February 10, 1905 ;

proclaimed, March 24, 1905 ...

2845

Panama, extradition. Treaty between the United States and Panama for the mutual extradition

of criminals. Signed at the city of Panama, May 25, 1904 ; ratification advised by the Sen-

ate, January 6, 1905 ; ratified by the President, January 20, 1905 ; ratified by Panama, May

25, 1904; ratifications exchanged at city of Panama, April 8, 1905; proclaimed, May 12, 1905. 2851

Haiti, extradition. Treaty between the United States and the Republic of Haiti for the mutual

extradition of criminals. Signed at Washington, August 9, 1904; ratification advised bythe

Senate, December 15, 1904 ; ratified by the President, June 17, 1905 ; ratified by Haiti,

August 25, 1904; ratifications exchanged at Washington, June 28, 1905 ; proclaimed, June

28, 1905..

2858

Norway, extradition, amended. Treaty between the United States and Norway amending the

extradition treaty of June 7, 1893, between the two countries. Signed at Washington, December 10, 1904; ratification advised by the Senate, January 6, 1905 ; ratified by the Presi-

dent, April 1 , 1905 ; ratified by Sweden and Norway, February 3, 1905 ; ratifications

exchanged at Washington, April 4, 1905 ; proclaimed, April 6, 1905

2865

Luxemburg, trade-marks. Declaration between the United States and Luxemburg for the effective

protection of trade-marks. Signed at Luxemburg, December 23, 1904; signed at The Hague,

December 27, 1904 ; ratification advised by the Senate, February 3, 1905 ; ratified by the

President, March 15, 1905; published by Luxemburg, March 15, 1905 ; proclaimed, March

15, 1905 ...

2868

Great Britain, extraterritoriality in Zanzibar. Treaty between the United States and Great Britain

by which the United States relinquishes extraterritorial rights in Zanzibar. Signed at

Washington, February 25, 1905 ; ratífication advised by the Senate, March 8, 1905 ; ratified by

the President, May 12, 1905 ; ratified by Great Britain, April 3, 1905 ; ratifications exchanged

at Washington, June 12, 1905 ; proclaimed, June 12, 1905

2870

Australia, parcels post. Parcels-post convention between the United States of America and the

commonwealth of Australia. May 10, 1905

2872

June 19, 1905

Panama, postal. Postal convention between the United States of America and the Republic of

Panama. June 19, 1905 .

2879

Denmark, supplementary extradition. Supplementary treaty between the United States and Denmark for the extradition of criminals. Signed at Washington, November 6, 1905 ; ratifica-

tion advised by the Senate, December 7, 1905 ; ratified by the President, February 13, 1906 ;

ratified by Denmark, December 14, 1905 ; ratifications exchanged at Washington, February

19, 1906 ; proclaimed, February 19, 1906 ..

2887

Japan, copyright . Copyright convention between the United States and Japan. Signed at Tokio, November 10, 1905 ; ratification advised by the Senate, February 28, 1906 ; ratified by the

President, March 7, 1906 ; ratified by Japan, April 28, 1906 ; ratifications exchanged at Tokio,

May 10, 1906 ; proclaimed, May 17, 1906 ..

2890

Sweden, parcels post. Parcels-post convention between the United States of America and the

Kingdom of Sweden. November 14, 1905

2892

December 14, 1905

Roumania, trade-marks . Convention between the United States and Roumania for the reciprocal

protection of trade-marks. Signed at Bucharest, March 18/31 , 1906; ratification advised by

the Senate, May 4, 1906 ; ratified by the President, May 10, 1906 ; ratified by Roumania, June

20, 1906 ; ratifications exchanged at Bucharest, June 21 , 1906 ; proclaimed, June 25, 1906 .. 2901

Great Britain, supplementary extradition . Supplementary convention between the United States and Great Britain for the extradition of criminals. Signed at London April 12 , 1905; ratification advised by the Senate December 13, 1905 ; ratified by the President December 21,

1906; ratified by Great Britain November 14, 1906 ; ratifications exchanged at Washington

December 21 , 1906 ; proclaimed February 12 , 1907 ..

2903

General Act, Morocco reforms . General act of the international conference at Algeciras and an additional protocol . Signed at Algeciras April 7 , 1906 ; ratification advised by the Senate Decem-

ber 12, 1906 ; ratified by the President of the United States December 14, 1906 ; ratification

deposited withthe Spanish Government December 31 , 1906 ; proclaimed January 22, 1907 ..... 2905 Great Britain, Alaska boundary. Convention between the United States and Great Britain provid-

ing for the surveying and marking out upon the ground of the one hundred and forty-first degree of west longitude where said meridian forms the boundary line between Alaska and

the British Possessions in North America . Signed at Washington April 21 , 1906 ; ratification

advised by the Senate April 25 , 1906 ; ratified by the President July 10, 1906 ; ratified by

Great Britain June 9 , 1906 ; ratifications exchanged at Washington August 16 , 1906 ; pro-

claimed August 21 , 1906 ....

2948

.(m)

IV

LIST OF TREATIES AND CONVENTIONS.

Page.

Japan, supplementary extradition. Supplementary convention between the United States and

Japan for the extradition of criminals. Signed at Tokyo May 17, 1906 ; ratification advised .

bythe Senate June 22, 1906 ; ratified by the President June 28, 1906 ; ratified by Japan Sep-

tember 22, 1906; ratifications exchanged at Tokyo September 25, 1906 ; proclaimed September

26, 1906 .

2951

Mexico, irrigation. Convention between the United States and Mexico providing for the equitable

distribution of the waters of the Rio Grande for irrigation purposes. Signed at Washington

May 21, 1906 ; ratification advised by the Senate June 26 , 1906; ratified by the President

December 26, 1906; ratified by Mexico January 5, 1907 ; ratifications exchanged at Washing-

ton January 16, 1907 ; proclaimed January 16, 1907 .

2953

Peru, parcels post. Parcels-post convention between the United States of America and the Repub-

lic of Peru, May 28, 1906 ...

2957

Denmark, parcels post. Parcels-post convention between the United States of America and Den-

June 30, 1906 mark,

2965

August 15, 1906

Ecuador, parcels post. Parcels-post convention between the United States of America and the

Republic of Ecuador, December 28, 1906 ....

2974

Bermuda, parcels post. Parcels-post agreement between the United States of America and the

1

December 13 , 1906 British Colony of Bermuda,

2983

January 15, 1907

TREATIES AND CONVENTIONS CONCLUDED BY THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA WITH
FOREIGN NATIONS.
(2843)

J

TREATIES AND CONVENTIONS .

Treaty between the United States and certain powersfor the arbitration ofpecuniary claims. Signed at Mexico, January 30, 1902; ratification advised by the Senate, January 11, 1905; ratified by the Presi dent of the United States, January 28, 1905; ratification deposited with the Mexican Government, February 10, 1905; proclaimed March 24, 1905.

January 30, 1902.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Treaty of Arbitration for pecuniary claims between the United States of America and the Argentine Republic, Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay, was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at the City of Mexico on the 30th day of January, 1902, the original of which Treaty in the English, Spanish and French languages, is word for word as follows:

Preamble.

Treaty of Arbitration for Pecuniary Claims.

Tratado sobre reclamaciones por daños y perjuicios pecuniarios.

Traité pour le règlement par décision arbitrale des Réclamations de dommages
pécuniaires.

Their Excellencies the Presidents of the Argentine Republic, Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Chili, Dominican Republic, Ecua dor, El Salvador, the United States of America, Guatemala, Hayti, Hondu ras, the United Mexican States, Nicaragua, Para guay, Peru and Uruguay,
Desiring 8 that their respective countries should be represented at the Second International American Conference, sent thereto duly authorized to approve the recommendations, resolutions, conventions and treaties that they might deem convenient for

Sus Excelencias el Presi- Leurs Excellences le

dente de la República Ar- Président de la République

gentina, el de Bolivia, el de Argentine, celui dé Bolivie, Colombia, el de Costa Rica, celui de Colombie, celui

el de Chile, el de la Repú- de Costa Rica, celui du blica Dominicana, el del Chili, celui de la Répu-

Ecuador, el de El Salvador, blique Dominicaine, celui el de los Estados Unidos de l'Equateur, celui du Salde América, el de Guate- vador, celui des Etats-Unis

mala, el de Haití, el de d'Amérique, celui du Gua-

Honduras, el de los Esta- temala, celui d'Haïti, celui dos Unidos Mexicanos, el de Honduras, celui des de Nicaragua, el del Para- Etats-Unis Mexicains ,

guay, el del Perú y el del celui de Nicaragua, celui

Uruguay;

du Paraguay, celui du

Pérou et celui de l'Uruguay,

Deseando que sus países Désirant que leurs pays

respectivos fueran repre- .respectifs soient représentés sentados en la Segunda à la Seconde Conférence Conferencia Internacional Internationale Américaine,

Americana enviaron á ella, y ont envoyé, dûment au- . debidamente autorizados torisés pour approuver
para aprobar las recomen- les recommandations, décidaciones, resoluciones, con- sions, conventions et traités

venciones y tratados que qu'ils jugeraient utiles aux juzgaren útiles á los inte- intérêts de l'Amérique,

Contracting parties. 2845

2846

TREATY- CLAIMS ARBITRATION. JANUARY 30 , 1902.

Plenipotentiaries.

the interests of America, reses de la América, á los Messieurs les Délégués sui-

the following Delegates: siguientes Señores Delega- vants: dos:

For the Argentine Repub- Por la Argentina.-- Pour l'Argentine. -Son lic. Their Excellencies Excmo. Sr. Dr. D. Antonio Excellence Antonio Ber-

Antonio Bermejo, Martín Bermejo, Excmo. Sr. D. mejo, Son Excellence Mar-

García Mérou, Lorenzo Martín García Mérou, tín García Mérou , Son Ex-

Anadon.

Excmo. Sr. Dr. D. Lorenzo cellence Lorenzo Anadón.

Anadón .

For Bolivia. -His Excel- Por Bolivia.-Excmo. Sr. Pour la Bolivie.-Son Ex-

lency Fernando E. Gua- Dr. D. Fernando E. Gua- cellence Fernando E. Gua-

challa.

challa.

challa.

For Colombia. --Their Ex- Por Colombia.-Excmo. Pour la Colombie. -Son

cellencies Carlos Martinez Silva, General Rafael Reyes.
For Costa Rica.- His Ex-

Sr. Dr. D. Carlos Martínez Silva, Excmo. Sr. Gral. D. Rafael Reyes.
Por Costa Rica.-- Excmo.

Excellence Carlos Martínez
Silva, Son Excellence Rafael Reyes.
PourCosta Rica: -Son Ex-

cellency Joaquin Bernardo Sr. D. Joaquín Bernardo cellence Joaquín Bernardo

Calvo.

Calvo.

Calvo.

For Chili. -Their Excel- Por Chile. - Excmo . Sr. Pourle Chili. -Son Excel-

lencies Alberto Blest Gana, D. Alberto Blest Gana, lence Alberto Blest Gana, Emilio Bello Codecido, Excmo. Sr. D. Emilio Son Excellence Emilio

Joaquin Walker Martinez, Augusto Matte.
For the Dominican Republic. Their Excellencies Federico Henriquez y Carvajal, Luis Felipe Carbo, Quintin Gutierrez.
For Ecuador. - His Excellency Luis Felipe Carbo.

Bello Codecido, Excmo . Sr. D. Joaquín Walker Martínez, Excmo. Sr. D. Augusto Matte.
Por la República Dominicana. - Excmo. Sr. D. Federico Henríquez y
Carvajal, Excmo. Sr. D. Luis Felipe Carbo, Excmo. Sr. D. Quintín Gutiérrez.
Por Ecuador.- Excmo.
Sr. D. Luis Felipe Carbo.

For El Salvador- Their Excellencies Francisco A. Reyes, Baltasar Estupinián.
For the United States of

Por El Salvador.Excmo. Sr. Dr. D. Fran-
cisco A: Reyes, Excmo. Sr. D. Baltasar Estupinian.
Por los Estados Unidos de

Bello Codecido, Son Excellence Joaquín Walker
Martínez, Son Excellence Augusto Matte.
Pour la République Dominicaine.-Son Excellence Federico Henríquez y
Carvajal, Son Excellence Luis Felipe Carbo, Son Excellence Quintín Gutiérrez.
Pour l'Equateur.- Son Excellence Luis Felipe Carbo.
Pour le Salvador.-- Son Excellence Francisco A. Reyes, Son Excellence Baltasar Estupinian.
Pourles Etats- Unis d'Amé-

America. Their Excellencies Henry G. Davis, William I. Buchanan, Charles M. Pepper, Volney W. Foster, John Barrett.

América. -Excmo . Sr. Henry G. Davis, Excmo. Sr. William I. Buchanan, Excmo. Sr. Charles M. Pepper, Excmo. Sr. Volney

rique. - Son Excellence Henry G. Davis, Son Excellence William I. Buchanan, Son Excellence Charles M. Pepper, Son Ex-

W. Foster, Excmo. Sr. John cellence Volney W. Foster,

Barrett.

Son Excellence John Bar-

rett.

For Guatemala. --Their Por Guatemala. - Excmo . Pour Guatemala . - Son Excellencies Antonio Lazo Sr D. Antonio Lazo Arria- Excellence Antonio Lazo

Arriaga, Colonel Francisco ga, Excmo. Sr. Coronel D.

Orla.

Francisco Orla.

For Hayti. - His Excel-. Por Haiti.-Excmo. Sr.

lency J. N. Léger.

Dr. D. J. N. Léger.

For Honduras. - Their Por Honduras . -Excmo.

Arriaga, Son Excel!lence Francisco Orla.
Pour Haiti. -Son Excellence J. N. Léger.
Pour Honduras. - Son

Excellencies José Leonard, Sr. Dr. D. José Leonard, Excellence José Leonard,

Fausto Dávila.

Excmo. Sr. Dr. D. Fausto Son Excellence Fausto Dá-

Dávila.

vila.

For Mexico. - Their Ex- Por México- Excmo. Sr. Pour les Etats- Unis Mexi-

cellencies Genaro Raigosa, Joaquín D. Casasús, José López Portillo y Rojas, Emilio Pardo, jr. , Pablo Macedo, Alfredo Chavero, Francisco L. de la Barra, Manuel Sánchez Mármol , Rosendo Pineda.

Lic. D. Genaro Raigosa, Excmo. Sr. Lic. D. Joaquín D. Casasús, Excmo. Sr. Lic. Pablo Macedo, Excmo. Sr. Lic. D. Emilio Pardo, jr. , Excmo . Sr. Lic. D. Alfredo Chavero , Excmo. Sr. Lic. D. José López-Portillo y Rojas, Excmo. Sr. Lic. D. Francisco L. de la Barra,

cains-Son Excellence Genaro Raigosa, Son Excellence Joaquín D. Casasús, Son Excellence Pablo Macedo , Son Excellence Emilio Pardo (jr. ) , Son Excellence Alfredo Cha-
vero, Son Excellence José López Portillo y Rojas, Son Excellence Francisco L. de

Excmo. Sr. Lic. D. Manuel la Barra, Son Excellence

Sánchez Mármol , Excmo. Manuel Sánchez Mármol, Sr. Lic. D. Rosendo Pineda. Son Excellence Rosendo
Pineda .

TREATY- CLAIMS ARBITRATION. JANUARY 30, 1902.

2847

For Nicaragua. -His Ex- Por Nicaragua.- Excmo. Pour le Nicaragua. -Son

cellency Luis F. Corea, His Sr. D. Luis F. Corea, Excellence Luis F. Corea,

Excellency Fausto Davila. Excmo. Sr. Dr. D. Fausto Son Excellence Fausto

Dávila.

Dávila.

For Paraguay. - His Ex- Por el Paraguay.- Pour le Paraguay. - Son

cellency Cecilio Baez.

Excmo. Sr. D. Cecilio Baez. Excellence Cecilio Baez.

For Peru. -Their Excel-- Por el Perú.-Excmo. Sr. Pour le Pérou . - Son Ex-

lencies Isaac Alzamora, Al- Dr. D. Isaac Alzamora. cellence Isaac Alzamora,

berto Elmore, Manuel Al- Excmo. Sr. Dr. D. Alberto Son Excellence Alberto

varez Calderón.

Elmore, Excmo. Sr. Dr. D. Elmore, Son Excellence

Manuel Alvarez Calderón, Manuel Alvarez Calderón.

For Uruguay. - His Ex- Por el Uruguay. - Excmo. Pour l'Uruguay. - Son

cellency Juan Cuestas;

Sr. Dr. D. Juan Cuestas. Excellence Juan Cuestas.

Who, after having com- Quienes después de ha- Lesquels, après s'être

municated to each other berse comunicado sus ple- communiqué leurs pleins

their respective full powers nospoderes y encontrádolos pouvoirset les avoirtrouvés and found them to be in en buena y debida forma, en bonne et due forme, & due and proper form , ex- con excepción de los exhibi- l'exception de ceux exhibés

cepting those presented by dos por los representantes par les représentants de

the representatives of Their de SS. EE. el Presidente de Leurs Excellences le PrésiExcellencies the Presidents los Estados Unidos de dent des Etats-Unis d'A-

of the United States of América, el de, Nicaragua y mérique, celui du Nicara-

America, Nicaragua and el del Paraguay, los cuales gua et celui du Paraguay,

Paraguay, who act "ad obran ad referendum, han qui agissent ad referendum, referendum, " have agreed, convenido en celebrar un ont convenu de conclure un

to celebrate a Treaty to sub- Tratado para someter á la Traité pour soumettre à la mit to the decision of arbi- derisión de árbitros las re- décision des arbitres les ré-

trators Pecuniary Claims for clamaciones por daños y clamations de dommages

damages that have not been perjuicios pecuniarios que pécuniaires, dans les termes

settled by diplomatic chan- no hayan sido resueltas por suivants.

nel, in the following terms: la vía diplomática, en los términos siguientes:
Art. 1. The High Con- ART. 1°. Las Altas Par-

ART. 1er. Les Hautes Par- Pecuniary claims to

tracting Parties agree to tes Contratantes se obli- ties Contractantes s'obli- be arbitrated.

submit to arbitration all gan someter á arbitraje gent à soumettre à l'arbi-

claims for pecuniary loss or todas las reclamaciones por trage, toutes les réclama

damage which may be pre- daños y perjuicios pecunia- tions pour dommages et

sented by their respective rios, que sean presentadas pertes pécuniaires, qui se-

citizens, and which can- por sus ciudadanos respec- raient présentées par leurs

not be amicably adjusted tivos y que no puedan re- nationaux respectifs et qui

through diplomatic chan- solverse amistosamente por ne pourraient être réglées à

nels and when said claims la vía diplomática, siempre l'amiable, par la voie diplo-

are of sufficient importance que dichas reclamaciones matique pourvu que les

to warrant the expenses of sean de suficiente impor- dites réclamations soient

arbitration .

tancia para ameritar los suffisamment importantes

gastos del arbitraje.

pour justifier les frais de

l'arbitrage. Art. 2. By virtue of the ART. 2º. En virtud de la ART. 2º. En vertu de la Permanent court of
faculty recognized by Arti- facultad que reconoce el faculté que reconnait l'ar- arVbiotlr.a3t2i,opn .t1o7d9e0.cide. cle 26 of the Convention of art. 26 de la convención ticle 26 de la Convention

The Hague for the pacific de La Haya, para el arreglo de la Haye, pour le règle-

settlement of international pacífico de los conflictos ment pacifique des conflits disputes, the High Con- internacionales, las Altas internationaux , les Hantes

tracting Parties agree to Partes Contratantes con- Parties Contractantes consubmit to the decision of vienen en someter á la de- viennent de soumettre à la

the permanent Court of Ar- cisión de la Corte Perma- décision de la Cour Perma-

bitration established by nente de arbitraje, que nente d'Arbitrage que la said Convention, all con- dicha Convención estable- dite Convention établit,

troversies which are the ce, todas las controversias toutes les controverses qui subject matter of the pres- que sean materia del pre- font l'objet du présent traité ent Treaty, unless both sente Tratado, á menos que à moins que les deux Par-

Parties should prefer that a special jurisdiction be or-
ganized, according to Article 21 of the Convention referred to.
If a case is submitted to
the Permanent Court of

ambas partes prefieran que se organice una jurisdicción especial, conforme al art. 21 de la citada convención.
En caso de someterse á la Corte Permanente de La

ties ne préfèrent qu'il soit organisé une juridiction speciale conformément à l'article 21 de la Conven-
tion précitée. Dans le cas où elles s'a-
dresseraient à la Cour Per-

Vol. 32, p. 1789. Scope of tribunal

The Hague, the High Con- Haya, las Altas Partes Con- manente de La Haye , les

tracting Parties accept the tratantes aceptan los pre- Hautes Parties Contrac-

provisions of the said Con- ceptos de la referida Con- tantes acceptent les prévention, in so far as they vención, en lo relativo á la ceptes de la Convention

relate to the organization organización del Tribunal précitée, en ce qui a trait à of the Arbitral Tribunal, arbitral, respecto á los pro- l'organisation du Tribunal

and with regard to the pro- cedimientos á que éste haya Arbitral à la procédure à

2848

TREATY- CLAIMS ARBITRATION. JANUARY 30, 1902.

cedure to be followed, and de sujetarse y en cuanto à suivre et à l'obligation

States affected. Vol. 32, p. 1779.

to the obligation to comply with the sentence.
Art. 3. The present Treaty shall not be obliga-
tory except upon those States , which have sub-

la obligación de cumplir el fallo.
ART. 3°. El presente Tra-
tado no será obligatorio sino para los Estados que hayan subscrito la Convención

d'exécuter la sentence.
ART. 3°. Le présentTraité ne sera obligatoire que pour les Etats qui auraient signé la Convention pour le rè-

scribed to the Convention for the pacific settlement of international disputes, signed at The Hague, July 29, 1899, and upon those

para el arreglo pacífico de los conflictos internacionales, firmada en La Haya el 29 de julio de 1899, y para los que ratifiquen el

glement pacifique des conflits internationaux, signé à La Haye le 29 Juillet 1899 et pour ceux qui ratifieraient le Protocole adopté

which ratify the Protocol
unanimously adopted by the Republics represented in the Second International
Conference of American States, for their adherence to the Conventions signed
at The Hague, July 29, 1899. viSspieoncsi.al treaty pro- Art. 4. If, for any cause
whatever, the Permanent Court of The Hague should not be opened to one or more of the High Contract-

Protocolo unánimemente adoptado por las Repúblicas representadas en la Segunda Conferencia Internacional Americana, para la adhesión á las Convenciones de la Haya.
ART. 4°. Siempre que por
cualquier motivo no llegue á abrirse á a.guna ó á algunas de las Altas Partes Contratantes la Corte Perma-

à l'unanimité par les Républiques représentées à la Seconde Conférence Internationale Américaine, pour l'adhésion aux Conventions de La Haye.
ART. 4. Si pour un motif quelconque la Cour de La Haye ne s'ouvrait pas à l'une ou à plusieurs des Hautes Parties Contractan-

ing Parties, they obligate nente de la Haya, se obligan tes, elles s'obligent à conthemselves to stipulate, in á consignar en un tratado signer dans un traité spécial

a special Treaty, the rules especial, las reglas conforme les règles d'après lesquelles under which the Tribunal á las cuales se establecerá y sera établi et fonctionnera shall be established, as funcionará el Tribunal que le Tribunal qui devra con-

Ante, p. 2847.

well as its form of proced- haya de conocer de las cues- naître des questions aux-
ure, which shall take cog- tiones á que se refiere el quelles se réfère l'article 1° nizance of the questions re- art. 1º del presente Tra- du présent Traité. ferred to in article 1. of the tado.

present Treaty. Effect and duration. Art. 5. This Treaty shall ART. 5°. Este Tratado ART. 5º. CeTraité sera ob-

be binding on the States será obligatorio para los ligatoire, pour les Etats qui

ratifying it, from the date Estados que lo ratifiquen, leratifieraient, àcompterde on which five signatory desde la fecha en que cinco la date où cinq des Gouver-

Ratification.

governments have ratified gobiernos signatarios lo nements signataires l'authe same, and shall be in hayan ratificado, y estará ront ratifié, et il restera en
force for five years. The envigordurante cinco años. vigueur durant cinq ans. ratification of this Treaty La ratificación de este Tra- La ratification de ce Traité

by the signatory States tado por los Estados que lo par les Etats qui le signeshall be transmitted to the firmen, será transmitida al raient sera transmise au Government of the United Gobierno de los Estados Gouvernement des Etats

States of Mexico, which Unidos Mexicanos, el cual Unis-Mexicains qui com-

shall notify the other Goy- comunicará á los demás las muniquera aux autres les

Signatures,

ernments of the ratifica- notas de ratificación que notes de ratification qu'il

tions it may receive.

reciba.

recevrait.

In testimony whereof En fe de lo cual los Pleni- En foi de quoi, les Pléni-

the Plenipotentiaries and potenciarios y Delegados potentiaires et Délégués

Delegates also sign the firman el presente Tratado signent le présent Traité et

present Treaty, and affix y ponen en él el sello de la y apposent le sceau de la

the seal of the Second In- Segunda Conferencia Inter- Seconde Conférence Inter-

ternational American Con- nacional Americana.

·nationale Américaine.

ference.

Made in the City of Mex- Hecho en la Ciudad de Fait en la ville de Mexico

ico thethirtieth day of Jan- México, el día treinta de le trete Janvier mil neuf

uary nineteen hundred and Enero de mil novecientos cent deux en trois exem

two, in three copies, written dos, en tres ejemplares es- plaires écrits, respective

in Spanish, English and critos en castellano, inglés ment, en espagnol, anglais

14

French, respectively, which y francés, respectivamente, et français, lesquels seront

shall be deposited with the los cuales se depositarán en déposés au Ministère des Secretary of Foreign Rela- la Secretaría de Relaciones Affaires - Etrangères du

tions of the Mexican United Exteriores del Gobierno de Gouvernement des Etats

States, so that certified cop- los Estados Unidos Mexi- Unis-Mexicains afin d'en

ies thereof be made, in or- canos, á fin de que de ellos faire des copies certifiées

der to send them through se saquen copias certifica- pour être envoyées par la

A

the diplomatic channel to das para enviarlas por la voie diplomatique à chacun

the signatory States.

vía diplomática á cada uno des Etats signataires.

de los Estados signatarios.

FortheArgentine Republic,
ANTONIO BErmejo. ORENZO ANADON,

Por la República Argentina,
ANTONIO BERMEJO, LORENZO ANADÓN.

Pour la République Argen. tine,
ANTONIO BERMEJO. LORENZO ANADÓN.

TREATY- CLAIMS ARBITRATION. JANUARY 30, 1902.

2849

For Bolivia, FERNANDO E. GUACHALLA.
For Colombia, RAFAEL REYES.
For Costa Rica, J. B. CALVO.
For Chili, AUGUSTO MATTE. JOAQ, WALKER M. EMILIO BELLO C.

Por Bolivia, FERNANDO E. GUA CHALLA .
Por Colombia, RAFAEL REYES.
Por Costa Rica, J. B. CALVO.
Por Chile, AUGUSTO MATTE. JOAQ. WALKER M. EMILIO BELLO C.

Pour la Bolivie, FERNANDO E. GUACHALLA.
Pour la Colombie, RAFAEL REYES.
Pour Costa Rica, J. B. CALVO.
Pour le Chili, AUGUSTO MATTE. JOAQ. WALKER M. EMILIO BELLO C.

For the Dominican Republic,
FED. HENRiquez i CarVAJAL.
For Ecuador, L. F. CARBO.
For El Salvador, · FRANCISCO A. REYES.
BALTASAR ESTUPINIAN. For the United States of
America: W. I. BUCHANAN. CHARLES M. PEPPER. VOLNEY W. FOSTER. For Guatemala, FRANCISCO ORLA. For Hayti, J. N. LÉGER. For Honduras, J. LEONARD. F. DÁVILA. For Mexico, G. RAIGOSA.
JOAQUIN D. CASASUS.
E. PARDO, jr. JOSÉ LOPEZ PORTILLO Y
ROJAS. PABLO MACEDO. F. L. DE LA BARRA. ALFREDO CHAVERO. M. SANCHEZ Marmol. ROSENDO PIneda. For Nicaragua, F. DAVILA. For Paraguay, CECILIO BAEZ. For Peru, MANUEL ALVAREZ CAL-
DERON. ALBERTO ELMORE. For Uruguay, JUAN CUESTAS. Es copia del original que
na sido depositado en la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos.
México, Marzo 15 de 1902.
El Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores. [SEAL] IGNO. MARISCAL

Por la República Dominicana ,
FED. HENRÍQUEZ I CARVAJAL.
Por Ecuador, L. F. CARBO.
Por El Salvador, FRANCISCO A. REYES. BALTASAR ESTUPINIAN.
Por los Estados Unidos de América, W. I. BUCHANAN. CHABLES M. PEPPER. VOLNEY W. FOSTER.
Por Guatemala, FRANCISCO ORLA.
Por Haití, J. N. LÉGER.
Por Honduras, J. LEONARD. F. DAVILA.
Por México, G. RAIGOSA. JOAQUÍN D. CASASÚS. E. PARDO (jr. ) JOSÉ LÓPEZ-PORTILLO Y ROJAS. PABLO MACEDO. F. L. DE LA BARRA. ALFREDO CHAVERO. M. SÁNCHEZ MÁRMOL. ROSENDO PINeda.
Por Nicaragua, F. DAVILA.
Por Paraguay, CECILIO BAEZ.
Por Perú, MANUEL ALVAREZ CALDERÓN. ALBERTO ELMORE.
Por Uruguay, JUAN CUESTAS. Es copia del original que
ha sido depositado en el Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos.
México, Marzo 15 de 1902.
El Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores [SEAL] IGNO. MARISCAL

Pour la République Dominicaine,
FED. HENRIQUEZ I CAR VAJAL.
Pour l'Equateur, L. F. CARBO.
Pour le Salvador, FRANCISCO A. REYES. BALTASAR ESTUPINIAN.
Pour les Etats Unis d'Amé-
rique, W. I. BUCHANAN. CHARLES M. PEPPER. VOLNEY W. FOSTER. Pour le Guatemala, FRANCISCO ORLA Pour Haiti, J. N. LÉGER. Pour Honduras, J. LEONARD. F. DÁVILA. Pour le Mexique, G. RAIGOSA.
JOAQUÍN D. CASASÚS.
E. PARDO, jr. JOSÉ LÓPEZ-PORTILLO Y
ROJAS. PABLO MACEDO. F. L. DE LA Barra. ALFREDO CHAVERO M. SÁNCHEZ MÁRMOL. ROSENDO PINEDA. Pour Nicaragua, F. DAVILA. Pour le Paraguay, CECILIO BAEZ. Pour le Pérou , MANUEL ALVAREZ CAL-
DERÓN . ALBERTO ELMORE. Pour l'Uruguay, JUAN CUESTAS.
Es copia del original que ha sido depositado en el Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos.
México, Marzo 15 de 1902.
El Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores. [SEAL] IGNO. MARISCAL

And whereas it is provided in its Article V that the said Treaty shall

Ratification .

be binding on the States ratifying it from the date on which five signatory governments have ratified the same, and shall be enforced for five years:
And whereas, the said Treaty was ratified by the United States of America on January 28, 1905 ; by Guatemala on April 25 , 1902 ; by El Salvador on May 19, 1902 ; by Peru- on October 29, 1903, and by Honduras on July 6, 1904:
Now, therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America , have caused the said Treaty to be

Proclamation .

2850

TREATY- CLAIMS ARBITRATION. JANUARY 30, 1902.
made public, to the end that the same and every clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this twenty - fourth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,
[SEAL ] and of the Independence of the United States of America, the one hundred and twenty- ninth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

TREATY- PANAMA. MAY 25 , 1904.

2851

Treaty between the United States and Panama for the mutual extradition of criminals. Signed at the City ofPanama, May 25, 1904; ratification advised by the Senate, January 6, 1905; ratified by the President, January 20, 1905; ratified by Panama, May 25, 1904; ratifications exchanged at City of Panama, April 8, 1905; proclaimed, May 12, 1905.

May 25, 1904.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Treaty between the United States of America and the Republic of Panama providing for the mutual extradition of fugitives from justice was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Panama on the twenty- fifth day of May, one thousand nine hundred and four, the original of which Treaty, being in the English and Spanish languages, is word for word as follows:

Preamble.

TREATY BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ, PROVIDING FOR THE EXTRADITION OF CRIMINALS.

TRATADO ENTRE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y LA REPÚBLICA DE PANAMÁ, SOBRE EXTRADICIÓN DE CRIMINALES.

The United States of America ? Los Estados Unidos de America

and the Republic of Panamá, being desirous to confirm their friendly relations and to promote the cause of justice, have resolved to conclude a treaty for the extradition of fugitives from justice between the United States of America and the Republic of Panamá, and have appointed for that purpose the following Plenipotentiaries :-The President of the United States

y la República de Panamá, deseando confirmar sus amistosas rèlaciones y promover la causa de la justicia, han resuelto celebrar un tratado para la extradición de los prófugos de la justicia entre los Estados Unidos de America y la República de Panamá, y han nom . brado al efecto los siguientes Plenipotenciarios :-El Presidente de los Estados Unidos de America, al

of America, William W. Russell, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States in Panamá, and the President of the Republic of Panamá, Tomás Arias, Secretary of Government of Panamá.
Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :

Señor William W. Russell, Encargado de Negocios ad interim de los Estados Unidos en Panamá, y el Presidente de la República de Panamá, al Señor Tomás Arias, Secretario de Gobierno de Panamá.
Quienes, despues de comunicarse sus respectivos plenos poderes que encontraron en buena y debida forma, han acordado y concluido los siguientes artículos :-

Contracting parties. Plenipotentiaries.

ARTICLE I.

ARTÍCULO I.

The Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of Panamá mutually

El Gobierno de los Estados Reciprocal of persons · delivery charged Unidos y el Gobierno de la Re- with crimes.
pública de Panama convienen en

2852

TREATY- PANAMA. MAY 25, 1904.

agree to deliver up persons who, having been charged with or convicted of any of the crimes and offenses specified in the following article, committed within the jurisdiction of one of the contracting parties, shall seek an asylum or be found within the territories of the other: Provided, that this shall only be done upon such evidence. of Criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so charged shall be found, would justify his or her apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime or offense had been there committed.

entregarse mútuamente las personas que, habiendo sido acusadas
ó condenadas por alguno de los Crímenes ó delitos especificados en el artículo siguiente y cometidos dentro de la jurisdicción de una de las partes contratantes, busquen asilo ó se encuentren en los terri-
torios de la otra; siempre que ello se haga sólo en virtud de pruebas tales de culpabilidad que según las leyes del lugar donde el prófugo 6 la persona acusada se encuentre, habria habido mérito para su aprehensión y enjuiciamiento , si alli se hubiera cometido el crímen ó delito.

ARTICLE II.

ARTÍCULO II.

Extraditable crimes. Extradition shall be granted for Se concederá la extradición por

Murder, etc.

the following crimes and of fenses :-
1. Murder, comprehending as-

los siguientes crímenes y delitos:1. Homicidio, comprendiendo

sassination, parricide, infanticide el asesinato, parricidio, infanti-

and poisoning.

cidio y envenenamiento; tentativa

Arson. Robbery, etc.

Attempt to commit murder; manslaughter, when voluntary.
2. Arson.
3. Robbery, defined to be the

de homicidio, homicidio impremeditado pero voluntario.
2. Incendio .
3. Robo, definido como acto de

act of feloniously and forcibly tak- quitar maliciosa y forzadamente ing from the person of another dinero, bienes documentos ú otra

Forgery, etc.

money, goods, documents or other property by violence or putting him in fear; burglary.
4. Forgery, or the utterance of

propiedad á otra persona, con violencia ó intimidación en ella; robo con fuerza en las cosas.
4. Falsificación, ó circulación

forged papers; the forgery or fal- de papeles falsificados; imitación sification of official acts of Gov- ó falsificación de documentos ofi-

ernment, of public authorities, or ciales del Gobierno, de las autori-

Counterfeiting.

of courts of justice, or the utterance of the thing forged or falsified .
5. The counterfeiting, falsify-

dades públicas ó de los tribunales de justicia , ó la circulación de la cosa imitada 6 falsificada.
5. El delito de contrahacer, falsi-

ing or altering of money, whether ficar ó alterar monedas, sea de

coin or paper, or of instruments of metal ó papel , de instrumentos de

debt created by national , state, crédito creados por el Gobierno

K

provincial , or municipal govern nacional, por el de un Estado,

ments, or of coupons thereof, or Provincia ó Municipalidad , ó de

of bank notes or the utterance or sus cupones, ó de billetes de banco,



circulation of the same ; or the ó la emisión ó circulación de los

Embezzlement.

counterfeiting, falsifying or altering of seals of state.
6. Embezzlement by public offi-

mismos ; 6 el delito de contrahacer, falsificar ó alterar sellos del Estado.
6. Malversación cometida por

cers ; embezzlement by persons hired or salaried, to the detriment of their employers ; where in either

empleados públicos ; malversación cometida por personas contratadas ó asalariadas en detrimento de sus

class of cases the embezzlement patrones ; siempre que en una y otra exceeds the sum of two hundred clase de casos la malversación ex-

dollars; larceny.

ceda de la suma de doscientos pesos

oro de los Estados Unidos ; hurto.

TREATY- PANAMA. MAY 25, 1904.

2853

7. Fraud or breach of trust by a bailee, banker, agent, factor, trustee, or other person acting in a fiduciary capacity, or director or member or officer of any company ,

7. Fraude ó abuso de confianza
de un depositario, banquero, agente, factor, tenedor de bienes ú otra persona que obre en carácter fiduciario, 6 de un director,

Breach of trust.

when such act is made criminal miembro ó empleado de una com-

by the laws of both countries and
the amount of money or the value of the property misappropriated is not less than two hundred dollars.

pañia, cuando las leyes de ambos paises déclaran criminoso semejante acto y el dinero ó el valor de los bienes defraudados no es infe-

8. Perjury ; subornation of per-

rior á doscientos pesos oro de los Estados Unidos.
8. Perjurio ; instigación á per-

Perjury.

jury . 9. Rape; abduction ; kidnapping .
10. Wilful and unlawful destruction or obstruction of rail-

jurar. 9. Rapto ; violación ; sustracción Rape, etc.
de personas. 10. Destrucción ú obstrucción etcI.njuriesto railroads,
voluntaria é ilegal de ferrocarriles,

roads which endangers human life.
11. Crimes commited at sea.. (a ) Piracy, by statute or by the laws of nations .

poniendo en peligro la vida de

personas.

11.

Delitos cometidos en el mar.

Crimes at sea.

(a) Piratería, según la ley ó el Piracy.

Derecho Internacional.

committed

(b) Revolt, or conspiracy to revolt, by two or more persons on board a ship on the high seas against the authority of the master.
(c) Wrongfully sinking or de-

(b) Motín ó conspiración para amotinarse de dos ó más personas á bordo de un buque en alta mar contra la autoridad del Capitan.
(c) Sumersión ó destrucción do

Mutiny. Destroying vessels.

stroying a vessel at sea, or attempting to do so.
d) Assaults on board a ship on the high seas with intent to do grievous bodily harm.
12. Crimes and offenses against

losa de un buque en alta mar 6 tentativa de hacerlo .
Assaults on ship (d) Atentados á bordo de un board.
buque en alta mar con el propósito
de causar daño corporal grave. Slave trading, etc.
12. Crímenes y delitos contra las

the laws of both countries for the suppression of slavery and slave trading.
13. Bribery, defined to be the

leyes de ambos países relativas á la supresión de la esclavitud y á la trata de esclavos.
13. Soborno, definido como acto

Bribery.

giving, offering or receiving of a de dar, ofrecer ó recibir remunereward to influence one in the dis- ración por ejercer influencia en el

charge of a legal duty..

desempeño de funciones legales.

Extradition is also to take place Tambien habrá lugar á la extra- . Complicity.

for participation in any of the dición por la participación en cualcrimes and offenses mentioned in quiera de los crimenes y delitos

this Treaty, provided such partici- mencionados en este Tratado, siem-

pation may be punished, in the pre que dicha participación sea United States as a felony, and in castigada, en los Estados Unidos

the Republic of Panamá by imprisonment at hard labor.

como una felonía , y en la República de Panamá, con presidio y otras penas mayores.

ARTICLE III.

ARTÍCULO III.

Requisitions for the surrender
of fugitives from justice shall be made by the diplomatic agents of the contracting parties, or in the absence of these from the country or its seat of government, may be made by the superior Consular Officers.

La demanda de entrega de prófugos de la justicia, se hará por los Agentes diplomáticos de las partes contratantes, ó si estuvieren ausentes del país ó de la residencia del Gobierno, podrán hacerla los funciónarios Consulares superiores .

Requisitions.

2854

TREATY- PANAMA. MAY 25 , 1904.

Papers required. Procedure.

If the person whose extradition
is requested shall have been con victed of a crime or offense, a duly authenticated copy of the sentence of the court in which he was convicted, or if the fugitive is merely charged with a crime, a duly authenticated copy of the warrant of arrest in the country where the crime has been committed, and of the depositions or other evidence upon which such warrant was issued , shall be produced .
The extradition of fugitives under the provisions of this Treaty shall be carried out in the United
States and in the Republic of Panamá, respectively, in conformity with the laws regulating extradition for the time being in force in the state on which the demand for surrender is made .

Si la persona cuya extradición se
solicita hubiere sido condenada por cl crimen ó delito se exhibirá una copia debidamente autenticada de la sentencia del tribunal que la
haya condenado, ó, si el prófugo estuviere simplemente acusado del crímen, se exhibirá una copia debidamente autenticada de la orden de arresto expedida en el pais donde se ha cometido el crímen; y de las declaraciones ú otras pruebas que han dado mérito á dicha orden.
La extradición de prófugos en
virtud de las disposiciones de este Tratado, se efectuará en los Esta-
dos Unidos y la República de Panamá, respectivamente, de acuerdo con las leyes que sobre extradición estuvieren entonces vigentes en el Estado á quien se dirija la solicitud de entrega.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTÍCULO IV.

Application for provisional arrest.

Where the arrest and detention

of a fugitive are desired on tele-

graphic or other information in advance of the presentation of for-

mal proofs, the proper course in

In theUnited States. the United States shall be to apply

to a judge or other magistrate authorized to issue warrants of arrest in extradition cases and present a

complaint on oath, as provided by the statutes of the United States.

In Panama.

When, under the provisions of

this article, the arrest and deten-

tion of a fugitive are desired in the Republic of Panamá, the proper course shall be to apply to the Foreign Office, which will immediately cause the necessary steps to be

taken in order to secure the provisional arrest or detention of the

fugitive. The provisional deten-
urDeistcohamragekeonforfamiall- tion of a fugitive shall cease and
rmeoqnutishist.ion in two the prisoner be released if a formal requisition for his surrender, ac-

companied by the necessary evi-

dence of his criminality has not

been produced under the stipulations of this Treaty, within two

months from the date of his provisional arrest or detention.

Si el arresto y detención de un prófugo se desearen por parte telegráfico ó de otro modo anticipándose á la presentación de las pruebas formales, la via adecuada
en los Estados Unidos consistirá en dirigirse á un juez ú otro magistrado autorizado para librar ordenes de arresto, en causas de
extradición , y, en presentar una querella bajo juramento, según lo disponen las leyes de los Estados Unidos.
Cuando, en virtud de las pres-
cripciones de este artículo, el arresto y detención de un prófugo se desearen en la República de Panamá, la via adecuada consistirá en dirigirse al Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, el cual dispondrá inmediatamente que se den los pasos necesarios para asegurar el arresto ó detención provisional del prófugo. La detención provi-
sional del prófugo cesará y el preso será puesto en libertad si dentro de dos meses contados desde la fecha de su arresto ó detención provisionales, no se hubiere formalizado , según las estipulaciones de este Tratado , la reclamación de su entrega acompañada de las pruebas necesarias de su culpabilidad.

TREATY- PANAMA. MAY 25 , 1904.

2855

ARTICLE V.

ARTÍCULO V.

Neither of the contracting parties shall be bound to deliver up its own citizens or subjects under the stipulations of this Treaty.

Ninguna de las partes contra- Neither country bound to deliver up
tantes estará obligada á entregar its own citizens.
á sus propios ciudadanos en virtud
de las estipulaciones de este Tratado.

ARTICLE VI.

ARTÍCULO VI.

A fugitive criminal shall not be
surrendered if the offense in respect of which his surrender is demanded be of a political character, or if he proves that the requisition for his surrender has, in fact, been made with a view to try or punish him for an offense of a political character. No person
surrendered by either of the high contracting parties to the other shall be triable or tried, or be punished, for any political crime or offense, or for any act connected therewith, committed previously to his extradition. If any question shall arise as to whether a case comes within the provisions of this article, the decision of the authorities of the government on which the demand for surrender is made, or which may have granted the extradition , shall be final.

No será

entregado

el criminal No surrender political offenses.

for

fugitivo si el delito con respecto al

cual se solicita su entrega, es de

carácter político, ó si prueba que

la reclamación de su entrega se ha

formulado en realidad con el objeto

de enjuiciarlo ó castigarlo por un

delito de carácter político. Nin-

guna persona entregada por una de las altas partes contratantes á la otra, podrá ser acusada ó enjuiciada ó castigada por algún crímen ó delito político ó por algún acto relacionado con ellos, cometido con anterioridad á su extradición.
Dado que surgiere cualquiera cuestión acerca de sí un caso cae bajo las disposiciones de este artículo , será definitiva la decisión que adopten las autoridades del Gobernio á

Decision.

quien se ha dirigido la solicitud de entrega ó que haya concedido la extradición .

ARTICLE VII .

ARTÍCULO VII.

Extradition shall not be granted,
in pursuance of the provisions of this Treaty if legal proceedings or the enforcement of the penalty for the act committed by the person claimed has become barred by limitation , according to the laws of the country to which the requisition is addressed .

No se concederá la extradición No delivery if trial barred by limitation.
de conformidad con las disposi-
ciones de este Tratado, si los procedimientos legales ó la aplicación de la pena correspondiente al hecho cometido por la persona reclamada,
hubieren quedado excluidos por
prescripción, de acuerdo con las leyes del país á que se ha dirigido el reclamo.

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTÍCULO VIII.

No person surrendered by either of the high contracting parties to the other shall, without his con-
sent, freely granted and publicly declared by him, be triable or tried or be punished for any crime or offense committed prior to his extradition , other than that for which he was delivered up, until he shall have had an opportunity
of returning to the country from which he was surrendered .
VOL XXXIV, PT 3--2

Ninguna persona entregada por ofTfreinasle tfoorbwehoinclhyefoxr una de las partes contratantes á la tradited. otra podrá, sin el consentimiento , prestado por ella libre y públicamente , ser acusada ó enjuiciada ó castigada por otro crímen ó delito cometido antes de su extradición que aquel por el cual ha sido entregada hasta tanto que no haya tenido oportunidad para regresar al país de que ha sido extraida.

2856

TREATY- PANAMA. MAY 25, 1904.

ARTICLE IX.

ARTÍCULO IX.

Disposal of articles All the articles seized which are seized with person.
in the possession of the person to be surrendered at the time of his

Todos los objetos secuestrados que al tiempo de la aprehensión se hallaren en poder de la persona

apprehension, whether being the reclamada, ya sean fruto del cri-

proceeds of the crime or offense menódelito imputados ó piezas que

charged, or being material as evi- puedan servir de prueba del crínien

dence in making proof of the crime or offense, shall , so far as practicable and in conformity with the

ô delito, deberán, en cuanto fuere practicable y con arreglo á las leyes de los respectivos paises,

laws of the respective countries, entregarse al tener lugar la extra-

be given up when the extradition dición. Sin embargo se respetarán takes place. Nevertheless, the debidamente los derechos de tercerights of third parties with regard ros en orden á esos objetos. to such articles shall be duly re- .

spected.

ARTICLE X.

ARTÍCULO X.

Persons claimed by If the individual claimed by one other countries.
of the high contracting parties, in pursuance of the present Treaty, shall also be claimed by one or
several other powers on account of crimes or offenses committed within their respective jurisdictions , his extradition shall be granted to the State whose de-
mand is first received : Provided , that the government from which extradition is sought is not bound
by treaty to give preference otherwise .

Si el individuo reclamado por
una de las altas partes contratantes de conformidad con el presente Tratado, fuere reclamado tambien por una ó varias otras potencias en razón de crímenes ó delitos
cometidos dentro de sus respectivas jurisdicciones, su extradición se concederá al Estado cuya solicitud se haya recibido primero, siempre que el Gobierno de quien se solicite la extradición no esté
sujeto por tratado á dar preferencia á otro.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTÍCULO XI.

Expenses.

The expenses incurred in the
arrest, detention, examination , and delivery of fugitives under this Treaty shall be borne by the State in whose name the extradition is sought: Provided , that the demanding government shall not be compelled to bear any expense for the services of such public officers of the government from which extradition is sought as receive a fixed salary; and , provided, that the charge for the services of such public officers as receive only fees or perquisites shall not exceed their customary fees for the acts or services performed by them had such acts or services been performed in ordinary criminal proceedings under the laws of the country of which they are officers.

Los gastos ocasionados por el arresto, detención , examen y entrega de los prófugos en virtud de este Tratado, serán de cargo del Estado en cuyo nombre se pida la extradición ; siendo entendido que el Gobierno solicitante no estará obligado á hacer ningun desembolso por servicio de los empleados públicos del Gobierno á quien se pida la extradición , que perciben sueldo fijo; y bien entendido que el gravamen por los servicios de los empleados públicos que solo perciben derechos ó emolumentos, no excederá el de sus aranceles acostumbrados en los actos ó servicios. ejecutados por ellos como si dichos actos ó servicios lo hubieran sido en procedimientos criminales ordinarios á virtud de las leyes del pais del'. cual son empleados.

TREATY- PANAMA. MAY 25 , 1904.

2857

ARTICLE XII.

ARTÍCULO XII .

The present Treaty shall take effect on the thirtieth day after the date of the exchange of ratifications, and shall not operate retroactively. The ratifications of the present Treaty shall be exchanged at Washington or at Panamá as soon as possible, and it shall remain in force for a period of six months after either of the contracting Governments shall have given notice of a purpose to terminate it.
In witness whereof, the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, both in the English and Spanish languages, and have hereunto affixed their seals .

Done in duplicate at the city of Panamá on the twenty fifth day of May in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and four.

W. W. RUSSELL. [SEAL.

TOMAS ARIAS.

[ SEAL. ]

El presente Tratado empezará á Effect.
regir el trigesimo dia despues de
la fecha en que se hayan canjeado las ratificaciones y no tendrá efecto retroactivo. Las ratificaciones del Exchange of ratifi-
cations. presente Tratado se canjearán en Washington ó en Panamá tan
pronto como sea posible, y éste
permanecerá en vigor hasta seis meses después que cualquiera de los Gobiernos contratantes haya notificado al otro su intención de

ponerle término. En fe de lo cual los respectivos
Plenipotenciarios han firmado los artículos precedentes en los idiomas inglés y español, y puesto al pié sus sellos.
Hecho por duplicado en la ciudad de Panamá á los veinte y cinco dias del mes de Mayo del año del Señor de mil novecientos cuatro.

Signatures.

TOMAS ARIAS [SEAL] W. W. RUSSELL [SEAL]

And whereas the said Treaty has been duly ratified on both parts and

the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged in the City of Panama on the eighth day of April, one thousand nine hundred and five ;

Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Treaty to be

made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citzens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington, this twelfth day of May in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and twentyninth .

[SEAL . ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

Ratification. " Proclamation.

2858

TREATY HAITI . AUGUST 9, 1904.

August 9, 1904.

Treaty between the United States and the Republic of Haiti for the mutual extradition of criminals. Signed at Washington, August 9, 1904; ratification advised by the Senate, December 15, 1904; ratified by the President, June 17, 1905; ratified by Haiti, August 25, 1904; ratifications exchanged at Washington, June 28, 1905; proclaimed, June 28, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and
the Republic of Haiti providing for the mutual extradition of fugitives from justice was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Washington, on the ninth day of August, one thousand nine hundred and four, the original of which Convention , being in the English and French languages is word for word as follows:

Contracting parties. The United States of America

and the Republic of Haiti, wishing to insure the proper administration of justice, have resolved to conclude a treaty for the purpose of mutually surrendering persons

who, being charged with one of the crimes hereinafter specified, or having been sentenced for one of these crimes, shall, by flight, have

escaped judicial prosecution or the consequences of their sentence.

Plenipotentiaries.

To this end they have appointed their Plenipotentiaries, to wit:
The President of the United

States of America , John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States of America; and,
The President of the Republic

of Haiti, Mr. J. N. Léger, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Haiti at Washington ;
Who, after having communicated their respective full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed on the following articles:

Les Etats-Unis d'Amérique et la République d'Haiti, voulant assurer la bonne administration de la justice, ont résolu de conclure un traité à l'effet de se livrer mutuellement les individus qui, étant accusés d'un des crimes ci-après spécifiés ou qui ayant été condamnés à raison d'un de ces crimes , se seraient soustraits par la fuite aux poursuites judiciaires ou aux conséquences de la condamnation.
A ce propos ils ont nommé leurs plénipotenciaires, savoir:
Le Président des Etats-Unis
d'Amérique , Monsieur John Hay, Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats -Unis
d'Amérique; et, Le Président de la République
d'Haiti, Monsieur J. N. Léger, Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire d'Haiti à Washington;
Lesquels, après s'être communiqué leurs pleins pouvoirs respectifs trouvés en bonne et due forine, sont convenus des articles suivants :

ARTICLE I.

ARTICLE I.

Reciprocal delivery

of persons charged The High Contracting Parties

with crimes.

agree to deliver up to their re-

spective justice , persons who, be-

Les Hautes Parties Contractantes s'engagent à livrer à leur justice respective les personnes

TREATY -HAITI. AUGUST 9, 1904.

2859

ing accused or convicted of any of the crimes hereinafter enumerated, committed within the limits of jurisdiction of the demanding party, shall have afterwards taken refuge or shall be found in the territory of the other; provided , that this shall only be done upon such evidence of criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive or person so
charged shall be found, would justify his apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime or offense had been there committed .

qui , accusées de quelqu'un des crimes ou condamnées pour quelqu'un des crimes ci-après énumérés commis dans l'étendue de la juridiction de la Partie requérante , se seront ensuite réfugiées ou auront été trouvées sur le terri-
toire de l'autre ; pourvu que, selon les lois du pays où les personnes ainsi accusées ou condamnées auront été trouvées, les preuves du
crime soient telles qu'elles auraient justifié leur prise de corps et leur mise en jugement si le crime ou le délit y avait été commis.

ARTICLE II.

ARTICLE II.

The crimes for which extradi-
tion shall be granted are the following :
1. Murder (including assassination, parricide, infanticide, poisoning, and voluntary manslaughter. )
2. Counterfeiting of money, either coin or paper ; utterance or circulation of counterfeit or altered money ; introduction of counterfeit or altered money into the territory of one of the Contracting Parties.
3. Counterfeiting of any securities issued by one of the Contracting Parties, of bonds or coupons of the public debt, of bank notes or other instruments of credit authorized by law; utterance, use, or introduction, in the territory of one of the Parties, of the aforementioned counterfeit or falsified securities or notes.
4. Forging of public or private documents ; use of forged documents .
5. Larceny; robbery, or that which corresponds to the crime provided for and punished by the laws of Haiti as theft committed with arms in hand or by violence or threats, or on the public highways; burglary, or that which corresponds to the crime provided for and punished by the laws of Haiti as theft committed by breaking or climbing into, or using false keys, or at night in a place inhabited or used as a dwelling.
6. Embezzlement by public officers or by persons hired or sala-

Les crimes pour lesquels l'extra- Extraditable crimes.

dition doit être accordée sont les suivants :

1°. Meurtre (assassinat, parri- Murder, etc.

cide, infanticide, empoisonnement,

et homicide volontaire) ;

2º.

Contrefaction des

monnaies ,

Counterfeiting money.

soit métalliques, soit papier; émission ou mise en circulation de la

fausse monnaie ou de la monnaie

altérée; introduction de la fausse
monnaie ou de la monnaie altérée sur le territoire de l'une des Par-
ties Contractantes ; Counterfeiting se-
3º. Contrefaction de tous effets . curities, etc. émis par l'une des Parties Con-

tractantes, des titres ou coupons

de la dette publique, des billets de Banque ou autres instruments de

crédit autorisés par la loi ; émis-

sion, usage ou introduction sur le territoire de l'une des Parties , des sus-dits effets ou billets contrefaits

ou falsifiés ; 4°. Faux en écriture publique ou Forgery.

privée ; usage de faux;

5°. Vol; " robbery " ou ce qui correspond au crime prévu et puni
par les lois haitiennes comme vol commis soit à main armée , soit avec violence ou menaces , soit dans les chemins publics ; " burglary" ou ce qui correspond au crime
prévu et puni par les lois haitiennes comme vol avec effraction, escalade, fausses clefs, ou commis la nuit dans un lieu habité ou servant à l'habitation ;

Robbery, etc.

6º. Détournement pratiqué par Lmbezzlement.

des officiers publics ou par des

2860

TREATY - HAITI. AUGUST 9, 1904.

ried, to the detriment of their
employers ; provided, that the amount of money or value of the property embezzled is not less than two hundred dollars. Arson; destruction 7. Arson; destruction of railof property. ways, bridges, tramways, vessels,
public edifices or other buildings, endangering human life.

Perjury; bribery.
Rape. Bigamy. Kidnapping. Piracy.

8. Perjury ; subornation of perjury; bribery, defined to be the giving, offering or receiving of a reward to influence one in the discharge of a legal duty.
9. Rape. 10. Bigamy. 11. Kidnapping of minors. 12. Piracy, as defined by statute or international law.

personnes prises à gages ou salariées au détrimentde leurs patrons ; pourvu que la valeur des objets détournés ne soit pas moins de deux-cents dollars;
7°. Incendie; destruction de
chemins de fer, de ponts, de tramways, de navires, d'édifices publics, ou de toutes autres constructions , quand des vies humaines auront été mises en péril ;
8°. Faux témoignage; subornation de témoins; corruption ou l'acte de donner, d'offrir ou de recevoir une récompense pour influencer l'accomplissement d'un devoir imposé par la loi;
9º. Viol; 10°. Bigamie; 11º. Enlèvement de mineurs;
12º. Piraterie, telle qu'elle est définie par la loi ou par le Droit International.

ARTICLE III.

ARTICLE III.

crAitmteesmpts to commit Extradition shall al . so be granted for the attempt to commit one

Accomplices.

of the crimes above enumerated, and against any accomplice of

these crimes or attempts at crimes,

when such complicity and attempt

are punishable by the laws of the

Party demanding the extradition .

L'extradition doit être aussi accordée pour tentative de commet-
tre l'un des crimes précédemment énumérés et contre tout complice de ces crimes ou tentatives de crimes, lorsque la complicité, ainsi que la tentative, est punie par les lois de la Partie qui demande l'extradition .

ARTICLE IV .

ARTICLE IV.

Neitherpartybound Neither of the Contracting Parto deliver up its own

citizens.

ties shall be obliged to deliver up

its own citizens .

Aucune des Parties Contractantes ne sera tenue de délivrer ses propres citoyens.

ARTICLE V.

ARTICLE V.

Persons under pros If the person claimed is under ecution in country

where found.

prosecution, either in the United

States or Haiti, for any other crime

Si la personne réclamée est sous le coup d'une instruction judiciaire soit aux Etats-Unis, soit à Haiti,

than that upon which the demand pour tout autre crime que celui for extradition is based, the extra- qui a motivé la demande d'extradition shall be postponed until the dition, il sera différé à l'extradition

judgment is pronounced, and, if jusqu'à ce que le jugement soit

the person is convicted, until the prononcé, et, s'il y a condamnation,

sentence imposed is fully served jusqu'à ce que la peine infligée

or remitted.

soit entièrement subie ou remise.

The extradition may also be L'extradition pourra être aussi

postponed when the person claimed différéequand la personne réclamée is being prosecuted for a civil of 1 est, dans l'Etat requis, l'objet d'une

fense in the country of which the poursuite à fin d'emprisonnement demand is made. In this case it civil. Elle n'aura, dans ce cas,

will not take place until after the lieu qu'après exécution du juge-

execution of the judgment or the ment ou remise de la condamna-

remission of the penalty.

tion.

TREATY - HAITI. AUGUST 9, 1904.

2861

ARTICLE VI.

ARTICLE VI.

A fugitive who shall have been claimed at the same time by two or more States, shall be delivered up to the State which has first presented its demand ; provided , that the government from which extra-
dition is sought is not bound by treaty to give preference otherwise.

Le fugitif qui aura été en même Persons claimed by other countries.
temps réclamé par deux ou plusieurs Etats sera livré à l'Etat dont la demande aura été présentée la première, à moins que l'Etat auquel la demande est adressée ne
soit obligé par Traité accorder la préférence à l'une des Parties réclamantes .

ARTICLE VII.

ARTICLE VII.

The provisions of the present treaty shall not apply to offenses of a political character. The assassination or poisoning of the head of a government, or any
other attempt against the life of the head of a government, shall not be considered as a crime of a political character.
A person whose extradition shall have been granted on account of one of the crimes mentioned in Article II of this Convention shall not, in any case, be tried for a political offense or for an act connected with a political offense committed prior to the demand for extradition , unless such person has had abundant opportunity to quit the country during the month following that in which he was set at liberty either as a result of acquittal, expiration of his sentence , or pardon.

Les dispositions du présent ,litNiocalsuorfrfensdeesr. for po
Traité ne s'appliqueront pas aux infractions ayant un caractère

politique.

L'assassinat, l'empoisonnement

d'un chef d'Etat, ou tout autre

attentat contre la vie d'un chef d'Etat , ne sont point considérés comme des crimes ayant un caractère politique.
Une personne dont l'extradition

aura été accordée pour l'un des crimes énumérés à l'article II de la

présente Convention, ne pourra, en aucun cas, être jugée pour un fait politique ou pour un fait ayant rapport à un acte politique commis avant la demande d'extradition , à

Ante, p. 2860.

moins qu'elle n'ait eu pleine latitude de quitter le pays durant le mois qui suit sa mise en liberté par suite d'acquittement, d'expiration de peine ou de pardon.

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTICLE VIII.

A person surrendered cannot, without the consent of the State which has granted the extradition , be detained or tried in the State which has obtained his extradi-
tion, for any other crime or causes than those which have given rise to the extradition . This stipulation does not apply to crimes committed subsequently to the extradition .
However, a person who has had ample opportunity to quit the country which has obtained his extradition; and who shall be found there a month after his release by acquittal, the expiration of his sentence, or pardon , may -be arrested and tried , without the

Une personne rendue ne peut ofTfreinasle tfoorbwehoinclhy efxo-r être, sans le consentement de l'Etat tradited. qui a accordé l'extradition , détenue ou jugée, dans l'Etat qui à obtenu son extradition, pour un autre
crime ou pour d'autres causes que ceux qui ont motivé l'extradition.
Cette stipulation ne s'applique pas aux crimes commis postérieurement à l'extradition .

Cependant

la

personne qui

au- Trials for other offenses.

rait pleine latitude de quitter le

pays ayant obtenu son extradition

et qui y serait trouvée un mois

après sa mise en liberté par suite

d'acquittement, d'expiration de

peine au de pardon, pourra être

arrêtée et jugée, sans le consente

2862

TREATY - HAITI . AUGUST 9, 1904.

consent of the State which has granted the extradition, for other crimes than those which have given rise to the demand for extradition .

ment de l'Etat qui avait accordé l'extradition, pour des crimes autres que ceux qui avaient motivé la demande d'extradition.

ARTICLE IX.

ARTICLE IX.

Application for pro- Where the arrest and detention visional arrest.
of a fugitive in the United States
In theUnited States. are desired on telegraphic or other

information in advance of the

presentation of the formal proofs,

complaint on oath, as provided by the statutes of the United States,

shall be made by an agent of the

Haitian Government, before a

judge or other magistrate authorized to issue warrants of arrest in

In Haiti.

extradition cases. In Haiti the diplomatic or con-
sular agent of the United States

shall address, through the Minis-

try of Foreign Relations, a complaint to the government commis-

sioner or any other magistrate authorized to issue warrants of

commitment. The provisional arrest and detention of a fugitive

shall cease and the prisoner be released ifa formal requisition for his surrender, accompanied by the necessary evidence of criminality , has not been produced under the

stipulations of this Convention
within sixty days from the date of his arrest.

Quand l'arrestation et la détention d'un fugitif seront demandées aux Etats- Unis sur requête télégraphique ou autre précédant la présentation des preuves formelles une plainte sous serment, comme l'exigent les statuts des EtatsUnis, sera faite par un agent du Gouvernement haitien pardevant un juge ou tout autre magistrat autorisé à émettre des mandats d'arrêt dans les cas d'extradition.
A Haiti, l'agent diplomatique ou consulaire des Etats-Unis adres-
sera, par l'intermédiaire du Ministère des Relations Extérieures, une plainte au Commissaire du Gou-
vernement ou à tout autre magistrat autorisé à émettre des mandats
de dépôt. L'arrestation et la détention pro-
visoires du fugitif prendront fin et le prisonnier sera mis en liberté si la demande formelle de son extra-
dition, accompagnée des preuves nécessaires du crime, n'a pas été faite conformément aux stipulations de la présente Convention et dans les soixante jours de la date de l'arrestation.

ARTICLE X.

ARTICLE X.

Requisitions.

Every demand for extradition
shall be made through the diplomatic agents of the High Contracting Parties. In case of
absence or impediment of these agents, the demand may be presented by the consuls. This demand shall be acted on in con-
formity with the laws of each of the Parties. Nevertheless , if the person demanded has already been
sentenced for one of the crimes hereinbefore enumerated, the requisition shall be merely accompanied by the sentence , duly certified by the competent authority of the State demanding the extra dition.

Toute demande d'extradition
sera faite par l'entremise des agents diplomatiques des Hautes Parties Contractantes. En cas
d'absence ou d'empêchement de ces agents, la demande pourra être présentée par les Consuls.
Cette demande sera instruite
conformément aux lois de chacune des Parties.
Néanmoins s'il s'agit d'une per-
sonne déjà condamnée pour l'un des crimes précédemment énumérés, la réquisition sera seulement accompagnée du jugement de condamnation dûment certifié par l'autorité compétente de l'Etat qui réclame l'extradition.

TREATY- HAITI . AUGUST 9 , 1904.

2863

ARTICLE XI.

ARTICLE XI.

In the investigation which they may have to make, according to their own laws, the authorities of the State of which the demand is made who are qualified to decide 'on the demand for extradition, shall admit as entirely valid evidence all depositions or declarations of witnesses coming fromthe other State, or copies thereof, and warrants issued, provided these documents are signed or certified by a competent magistrate or officer of the State making the demand.

Dans l'instruction qu'elles peuvent avoir à faire, suivant leur
législation propre, les autorités qui, dans l'Etat requis, auront qualité pour décider sur la demande d'extradition admettront comme preuve entièrement valide
toutes les dépositions ou déclarations de témoins provenant de l'autre Etat, copies de ces derniè res et les mandats émis, pourvu que ces documents soient signés ou certifiés par un magistrat ou un officier compétent de l'Etat qui fait la demande d'extradition .

Evidence required. 1

ARTICLE XII.

ARTICLE XII.

The objects found in the possession of the fugitive and which were obtained by the perpetration of the crime with which he is charged, or which may serve to prove his crime, shall be seized at the time of his arrest and delivered
together with his person to the party demanding the extradition . Nevertheless, the rights of third persons to the articles so found shall be respected.

Tous les objets trouvés en la Disposal of articles seized with person. possession du fugitif et qui proviennent de la perprétration du crime dont il est accusé ou qui peuvent servir à prouver ce crime, seront saisis lors de son arrestation et remis avec sa personne à la Partie qui fait la demande d'extradition.
Néanmoins les droits que des
tiers pourraient avoir sur ces objets seront respectés .

ARTICLE XIII.

ARTICLE XIII.

The expenses of detention , procedure, and delivery, incurred in virtue of the preceding articles, shall be borne by the demanding Party. It is agreed , however, that the State making the demand shall have nothing to pay to the officers of the State to which the demand is addressed who receive fixed salaries; officers who, having no fixed salary, receive fees, shall not demand any other fees than those generally charged in ordinary criminal procedures.

Les frais de détention, de pro-
cédure et de remise, faits en vertu des articles précédents, seront à la charge de la Partie demanderesse.
Il est cependant convenu que l'Etat qui fait la demande n'aura rien à payer aux fonctionnaires de l'Etat auquel la demande est adressée et qui reçoivent des appointements fixes ; les fonctionnaires qui, n'ayant pas d'appointements fixes, reçoivent des frais, ne pourront pas réclamer des frais autres que ceux généralement perçus dans les procédures criminelles ordinaires .

Expenses.

ARTICLE XIV.

ARTICLE XIV .

The stipulations of the present treaty are applicable to the insular possessions of the United States. In this case the demand shall be
addressed to the Governor or principal authority of the possession by the consul of Haiti .

Les stipulations du présent Applicable to Unit- ed States insular posTraité sont applicables aux pos- sessions. sessions insulaires des Etats - Unis. En ce cas la demande d'extradi-
tion est adressée au Gouverneur ou à la principale autorité de la possession par le Consul d'Haiti.

2864

TREATY- HAITI. AUGUST 9, 1904.

Effect.

ARTICLE XV .

ARTICLE XV.

The present treaty shall remain
in force until it is denounced ; it shall cease to bind the Parties six
months after one of them shall have notified its intention to terminate it.

Le présent Traité restera en vigueur jusqu'à ce qu'il soit dénoncé ; il cessera de lier les Parties six
mois après que l'une d'elles aura notifié son intention d'y mettre fin.

ARTICLE XVI.

ARTICLE XVI.

Exchange of ratifications.

The present treaty shall be ap-

proved and ratified by the com-

petent authority of each of the

High Contracting Parties, and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington as soon as possible.
In witness whereof, the respec-

tive Plenipotentiaries have signed the foregoing articles, and have affixed their seals.

Done in duplicate at Washing-
ton, in English and French, this ninth day of August, nineteen hundred and four.

Le présent Traité sera apprové et ratifié par l'autorité compétente de chacune des Hautes Parties Contractantes; et les ratifications seront échangées à Washington aussitôt que possible.
En foi de quoi, les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé les articles ci -dessus, et y ont apposé leurs Sceaux .
Fait à Washington, en double original, en anglais et en français, ce jour, le neuf août, mil neufcent- quatre .

JOHN HAY [SEAL. J. N. LÉGER [ SEAL.

Exchange of ratifications.

And whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified on both

parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged in

the City of Washington, on the twenty -eighth day of June, one thou

sand nine hundred and five ;

Now, therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt, President

of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention to

be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , this twenty- eighth day of June , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[ SEAL] five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and twenty-ninth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : HERBERT H. D. PEIRCE

Acting Secretary of State.

TREATY- NORWAY. DECEMBER 10, 1904.

2865

Treaty between the United States and Norway amending the extradition treaty of June 7, 1893, between the two countries. Signed at Washington, December 10, 1904; ratification advised by the Senate, Januay 6, 1905; ratified by the President, April 1, 1905; ratified by Sweden and Norway, February 3, 1905; ratifications exchanged at Washington, April 4, 1905; proclaimed, April 6, 1905,

December 10, 1904.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Treaty between the United States of America and His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway amending the last paragraph of Article II of the Treaty of Extradition between the United States and Norway, concluded June 7, 1893, was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Washington on the tenth day of December, one thousand nine hundred and four , the original of which Treaty, being in the English and Norwegian languages is word for word as follows:

Preamble .

Whereas the Kingdom of Norway has enacted a new penal code, taking effect January 1 , 1905 , by which the penalty of imprisonment at hard labor is abolished, the United States of America and His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway have deemed it expedient to conclude a treaty amending, in this respect, the treaty of extradition concluded between the same High Contracting Parties on June 7 , 1893, and have appointed for that purpose the following Plenipotentiaries :
The President of the United
States of America , John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States of America; and
His Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, J. A. W. Grip, His Majesty's Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to the United States of America;
Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, found in good and

Da der i kongeriget Norge er
udfærdiget en ny straffelov, som træder ikraft 1 januar 1905 , ved hvilken strafarten strafarbeide er afskaffet, har Amerikas Forenede Stater og Hans Majestæt Kongen af Sverige og Norge anseet det tjenligt at slutte en traktat, som under hensyn hertil ændrer udleveringstraktaten sluttet mellem de samme höie kontraherende
parter den 7 juni 1893, og har i det öiemed udnævnt fölgende befuldmægtigede :

Contracting parties. Vol. 28, p. 1187.

Amerikas Forenede Staters Plenipotentiaries.
Præsident, John Hay, Amerikas Forenede Staters Statssecretair; og
Hans Majestæt Kongen af Sverige og Norge, J. A. W. Grip, Hans Majestæt's Envoyé . Extraordinaire og Ministre Plenipotentiaire i Amerikas Forenede Stater;
som efter at have meddelt hinan-
den sine respektive fuldmagter, der fandtes i god og tilbörlig

2866

TREATY- NORWAY. DECEMBR 10, 1904.

due form, have agreed upon and orden, er bleven enige om og har concluded the following articles : afsluttet fölgende artikler :

ARTICLE I.

ARTIKEL I.

Extradition ofaccessories from Norway. The last paragraph of Article II
of the Treaty of Extradition, conProvisions modified. cluded June 7, 1893 , between the
United States of America and His

Majesty the King of Sweden and Norway, is hereby amended , to take effect on January 1 , 1905, by striking out, after the word " Norway,'" the words "by imprisonment at hard labor," and inserting

in their place by a higher penalty than imprisonment for three months . "

Accessories. New paragraph. Vol. 28, p. 1189.

The paragraph in question shall then read, as amended:
66 Extradition is also to take
place for participation in any of the crimes and offenses mentioned

in this Treaty, provided such participation may be punished in the United States as a felony , and in

Norway by a higher penalty than imprisonment for three months. "

Sidste afsnit af artikel II i udleveringstraktaten , afsluttet 7 juni 1893 mellem Amerikas Forenede Stater og Hans Majestæt Kongen af Sverige og Norge , bliver herved , at regne fra 1 januar 1905, ændret saaledes, at efter ordet " Norge" udgaar ordene " med strengere straf end fængsel, " og at der isted-
66 et indsættes med höiere straf end fængsel i tre maaneder. "
Det omhandlede afsnit skal derefter, saaledes ændret, lyde:
" Udlevering skal ligeledes finde sted for delagtighed i nogen af de i denne traktat nævnte forbrydelser og forseelser, forsaavidt saadan delagtighed bliver at straffe ide Forenede Stater som "felony " og i Norge med höiere straf end fængsel i tre maaneder.

ARTICLE II.

ARTIKEL II.

Exchange of ratifications.

The ratifications of the present

treaty shall be exchanged as soon

as possible, and it shall remain in

force as long as the Treaty of

Extradition hereby amended , and shall be terminable on the same

notice.

Signatures.

In witness whereof, the respec-

tive Plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles , both in the
English and Norwegian languages, and have hereunto affixed their seals .

Done in duplicate at the City of
Washington, this tenth day of December, one thousand nine hundred and four.

Ratifikationerne af denne traktat skal udveksles saa snart som muligt, og den skal forblive i kraft saa længe som den herved ændrede udleveringstraktat og skal kunne opsiges med det samme varsel.
Til bekræftelse herpaa har de respektive befuldmægtigede underskrevet ovenstaaende artikler, affattede baade i det engelske og det norske sprog, og har herunder fæstet sine segl.
Udfærdiget i to exemplarer i Washington paa den tiende dag i december et tusinde ni hundrede og fire.

JOHN HAY

[SEAL . ]

J. A. W. GRIP. [ SEAL. ]

Ratification . Proclamation.

And whereas the said Treaty has been duly ratified on both parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged in the City of Washington, on the 4th day of April , one thousand nine hundred and five;
Now, therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Treaty to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause

TREATY- NORWAY. DECEMBER 10, 1904.

thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this sixth day of April , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL] the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and twenty-ninth.

By the President: FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Acting Secretary of State.

2867



2868

DECEMBER 23, 1904. TRADE-MARKS DECLARATION-LUXEMBURG. DECEMBER 27, 1904.

December 23,1904. December 27, 1904.

Declaration between the United States and Luxemburg for the effective
protection oftrade-marks. Signed at Luxemburg, December 23, 1904; signed at The Hague, December 27, 1904 ; ratification advised by the Senate, February 3, 1905; ratified by the President, March 15, 1905; published by Luxemburg, March 15, 1905; proclaimed, March 15, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Declaration between the United States of America and
the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg providing for a complete and effective protection of the manufacturing industry of the citizens and subjects of the two countries, was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Luxemburg the twenty - third and at the Hague the twenty -seventh of December , one thousand nine hundred and four, the original of which Declaration , being in the English and French languages, is word for word as follows:

DECLARATION.

Declaration.

The Government of the United
States of America and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg being desirous of securing a complete and effective protection of the manufacturing industry of the citizens and subjects of the two countries, the undersigned, being duly authorized to that effect, have agreed upon the following provisions.

LeGouvernement des Etats -Unis
d'Amérique et le Gouvernement du Grand- Duché de Luxembourg désirant assurer une protection complète et efficace à l'industrie manufacturière des citoyens et sujets des deux pays, les soussignés, dûment autorisés à cet effet, sont convenus des dispositions suivantes :

ARTICLE 1 .

ARTICLE 1ER.

Reciprocal rights as to trade-marks.

The subjects and citizens of each

of the high contracting parties

shall enjoy in the dominions and

possessions of the other the same

rights as are given to native sub-

jects or citizens in matters relating to trade-marks.

Les sujets et citoyens de l'une des hautes parties contractantes
jouiront dans les Etats ou possessions de l'autre, en ce qui concerne la protection des marques de fabrique et de commerce , des mêmes droits que les nationaux .

ARTICLE 2 .

ARTICLE 2 .

Observance of legal In order to secure to their marks formalities required.
the protection stipulated for by the preceding article, American

Pour assurer à leurs marques la protection stipulée par l'article précédent, les citoyens américains

DECEMBER 23, 1904. TRADE-MARKS DECLARATION-LUXEMBURG . DECEMBER 27, 1904.

2869

citizens in the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg and Luxemburg subjects in the United States of America must fulfil the formalities prescribed to that effect by the laws and regulations of the country in which the protection is desired.

dans le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg et les sujets luxembourgeois dans les Etats- Unis d'Amérique devront remplir les formalités prescrites à cet effet par les lois et règlements du pays dans lequel la protection est désirée .

ARTICLE 3.

ARTICLE 3 .

The present arrangement shall take effect from the date of its official publication in the two countries and shall remain in force
until the expiration of twelve months immediately following a denunciation made by one or the other of the contracting parties.
In witness whereof, the under-
signed have signed the present Declaration and have thereto affixed their seals.
Done in duplicate at Luxemburg, the 23, and in the Hague , the 27 December 1904.
STANFORD NEWEL [SEAL. ]

Le présent arrangement sera exécutoire des la date de sa publication officielle dans les deux pays et il demeurera en vigueur jusqu'à l'expiration des douze mois qui suivront une dénonciation faite par l'une ou l'autre des parties contractantes.
En foi de quoi , les soussignés ont signé la présente Déclaration et y ont apposé leurs sceaux.
Fait en double exemplaire à
Luxembourg, le 23, et à La Haye , le 27 décembre 1904.
EYSCHEN [SEAL]

Effect. Signatures.

And whereas the said Declaration has been duly ratified; Now, therefore, be it known that L, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Declaration to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this fifteenth day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and
[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and twenty-ninth.. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

Ratification. Proclamation.

2870

TREATY- GREAT BRITAIN . FEBRUARY 25, 1905.

February 25, 1905.

Treaty between the United States and Great Britain by which the United States relinquishes extraterritorial rights in Zanzibar. Signed at Washington, February 25, 1905; ratification advised by the Senate, March 8, 1905; ratified by the President, May 12, 1905; ratified by Great Britain, April 3, 1905; ratifications exchanged at Washington, June 12, 1905; proclaimed, June 12, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and

His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of

India acting in the name of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar, by which the United States agrees to renounce in the British Protectorate of Zanzibar, and in that part of the mainland dominions of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar which lies within the Protectorate of

British East Africa, its extraterritorial rights in favor of the British courts therein established , was concluded and signed by their respec-

tive Plenipotentiaries at Washington , on the twenty-fifth day of February, one thousand nine hundred and five, the original of which Convention is word for word as follows: Contracting parties. The United States of America and His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, acting in the name of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar, have, for the purposes

Plenipotentiaries.

hereinafter stated, appointed as their Plenipotentiaries, namely: The President of the United States of America, the Honorable
John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States of America; and

His Britannic Majesty, the Right Honorable Sir Henry Mortimer Durand, G. C. M. G., K. C. S. I. , K. C. I. E. , his Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary near the Government of the United States ;

Who, after having communicated each to the other their respective full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed upon the following articles:

ARTICLE I.

Extra territorial The United States of America agrees to renounce in the British rights relinquished in British Protectorate Protectorate of Zanzibar, and in that part of the mainland dominions

of Zanzibar.

Vol. 8, p, 459.

of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar which lies within the Pro-

Vol. 25, p. 1439. tectorate of British East Africa, the extraterritorial rights secured to

it by the treaty of September 21 , 1833, between the United States

and the Sultan of Muscat, and the treaty of July 3, 1886, between the United States and Zanzibar.

TREATY- GREAT BRITAIN. FEBRUARY 25, 1905 .

2871

The jurisdiction exercised thereunder by consular courts of the lJaurrciosudritcstiroennoofucnocnesdu. United States in the British Protectorate of Zanzibar and in that part of the mainland dominions of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar which is under British protection , and all the exceptional privileges, exemptions, and immunities enjoyed by citizens of the United States as a part of or appurtenant to such jurisdiction , shall absolutely cease and determine . It being understood, however, that this renunciation shall not take effect until such time as the rights of extraterritoriality enjoyed in Zanzibar by other nations shall have been likewise renounced.
ARTICLE II.

In consideration of this renunciation by the United States of America, the Government of His Britannic Majesty agrees to empower the competent British courts which have been established in the British
Protectorate of Zanzibar and in that part of the mainland dominions :.
of His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar which under British protection, to exercise jurisdiction over citizens of the United States the
same as over British subjects and British protected persons, and that citizens of the United States shall have in and before said courts all
the rights and privileges that belong and are accorded therein to British subjects and to British protected persons.

Authority to British

ARTICLE III.

The present Convention shall be ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the

Senate thereof, and by His Britannic Majesty, and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington as soon as possible.

In faith whereof, we, the respective Plenipotentiaries , have signed this Convention and have hereunto affixed our seals.

Done in duplicate at the City of Washington this twenty-fifth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five.

JOHN HAY

SEAL.

HM DURAND [ SEAL. ]

Ratification. Signatures.

And whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified on both

parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged in the City of Washington, on the twelfth day of June, one thousand nine hundred and five;

Now, therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention

to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington, this twelfth day of June,

[SEAL. ]

in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and twenty-ninth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS.

Acting Secretary of State.

Proclamation.

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--3

2872

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- AUSTRALIA.

MAY 10, 1905. JUNE 19, 1906.

May 10, 1905. June 19, 1905.

Parcels-post convention between the United States of America and the commonwealth of Australia.

Preamble.

For the purpose of promoting greater facilities than at present exist for the exchange of Postal Parcels between the United States of America and the Commonwealth of Australia, the undersigned, George B. Cortelyou , Postmaster General of the United States of America, and Sydney Smith, Postmaster General of the Commonwealth of Australia, duly authorized in that behalf, have agreed, on behalf of their respective Governments, to the following Articles, namely : -

ARTICLE 1 .

Extent of convention.

The provisions of this Convention shall relate only to parcels of mail

matter to be exchanged by the system herein provided for, and shall

not affect the arrangements existing under the Universal Postal Con-

vention, and the Regulations made in eonformity therewith, which

arrangements will continue as heretofore ; and all the conditions here-

inafter contained shall apply exclusively to mails exchanged under these articles.
ARTICLE 2.

Direct exchanges. There shall be a regular exchange of uninsured parcels between the
United States of America on the one hand , and the Commonwealth of

Australia on the other hand, which shall be effected by means of the direct postal service between the United States of America and the Commonwealth of Australia.

ARTICLE 3.

Exchange offices.

The offices of exchange shall be the Post Office of San Francisco for the United States of America ; and, for the Commonwealth of Australia-for the State of New South Wales, Sydney ; for the State of Victoria, Melbourne ; for the State of Queensland , Brisbane ; for the State of South Australia, Adelaide ; for the State of Western Australia, Perth ; for the State of Tasmania, Hobart; and such other exchange offices as may hereafter be mutually agreed upon .

ARTICLE 4.

Articles admitted to mails.

1. There shall be admitted to the mails exchanged under this Con-

vention articles of merchandise and mail matter- except letters, post

cards, and written matter-of all kinds that are admitted under any conditions to the domestic mails of the country of origin, provided

that no parcel may exceed in value $50, or ten pounds ( 10) sterling;

four pounds six ounces (or two kilograms) in weight, nor the following dimensions : Greatest length in any direction , three feet six inches;

greatest length and girth combined , six feet; and every parcel must be so wrapped or enclosed as to permit the contents to be easily

examined by postal and customs officers. Freedom from in- 2. All admissible articles or merchandise mailed in one country for spection.
the other, or received in one country from the other, shall be free

MAY 10, 1905. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION-AUSTRALIA. JUNE 19, 1906.

2873

from any detention or inspection whatever, except such as is required for collection of postal delivery charges or customs duties ; and shall be forwarded by the most speedy means to their destination , being subject in their transmission to the laws and regulations of each country, respectively.
ARTICLE 5.

Every

parcel

shall

bear the

name and

address

of

the

person

for whom

Address, etc., ofparcels.

it is intended, given with such completeness as will enable delivery to

be effected. No parcel shall be accepted for transmission unless it be

securely packed , in such a manner as to protect the contents from

damage.

ARTICLE 6.

1. A letter or communication of the nature of personal correspond- Letters must not acence must not accompany, be written on, or enclosed with any parcel. company parcels.
2. If such be found, the letter will be placed in the mails if separable, Rejection. and if the communication be inseparably attached, the whole parcel will be rejected. If, however, any such should inadvertently be forwarded, the country of destination will collect on the letter or letters double rates of postage according to the Universal Postal Convention.
3. No parcel may contain packages intended for delivery at an address Address. other than that borne by the parcel itself. If such enclosed packages be detected, they must be sent forward singly, charged with new and distinct Parcels- Post rates.
ARTICLE 7.

1. The sender will, upon application at the time of mailing the parcel , receive a Certificate of Mailing from the Post Office where the parcel is mailed on a Form like Form 1. annexed hereto.
2. The sender of a parcel posted in the United States of America may have the same registered in accordance with the Regulations of that country.
3. An acknowledgment of the delivery of a parcel shall be returned to the sender when requested ; but either country may require of the sender prepayment of a fee therefor not exceeding five cents in the United States or two pence half penny in the Commonwealth of Australia.
4. The addressees of registered parcels shall be advised of the arrival of a parcel addressed to them by a notice from the Post Office at destination.
ARTICLE 8.

PRoescte,ipp.t2. 876. Registry. Return receipt.
Notice to addressee.

1. The sender of each parcel shall make a Customs declaration pasted tiConu.stoms declara-

upon or attached to the parcel, upon a special form provided for the Post, p. 2877.
purpose (see Form 2. annexed hereto) giving a general description of

the parcel, an accurate statement of its contents and value, date of

mailing and the sender's signature and place of residence, and place of address.
2. The parcels in question shall be subject in the country of desti-

Collection ofduties.

nation to all customs duties and all customs regulations in force in that

country for the protection of its customs revenues ; and the customs

duties properly chargeable thereon shall be collected on delivery, in

accordance with the customs regulations of the country of destination.

ARTICLE 9 .

The following articles are prohibited from admission to or transmission in the mails exchanged under this Convention , viz :
Publications which violate the copyright laws of the country of destination ; poisons, and explosive or inflammable substances ; fatty substances, liquids and those which easily liquefy ; confections and pastes ;

Articles prohibited.

2874

MAY 10. 1905. PARCELS -POST CONVENTION-AUSTRALIA. JUNE 19, 1905.

live or dead animals , except dead insects and reptiles when thoroughly dried; fruits and vegetables which easily decompose, and substances which exhale a bad odor ; lottery tickets, lottery advertisements, or lottery circulars, all obscene or immoral articles ; articles which may in any way damage or destroy the mails or injure the persons handling them, and any other articles prohibited by the laws or regulations of the country of origin or of destination from transmission by parcel post.
Should any parcel containing any such prohibited article be detected in transit through the post, the parcel will be, without other formality, returned to the despatching office of exchange; unless the parcel contains a dangerous substance, in which case , it shall be destroyed.

ARTICLE 10.

Rates of postage. Delivery.

1. The following rates of postage shall in all cases be required to be
fully prepaid with postage stamps of the country of origin, viz : 2. In the United States, for a parcel not exceeding one pound in
weight, twelve cents ; and for each additional pound or fraction of a pound, twelve cents.
3. In the Commonwealth of Australia, for a parcel not exceeding one pound in weight, one shilling; and for each additional pound , or fraction of a pound, sixpence.
4. The parcels shall be promptly delivered to addressees at the Post Office of address in the country of destination free of charge for post-
age; but the country of destination may, at its option , levy and collect from the addressees for interior service and delivery a charge the
amount of which is to be fixed according to its own regulations, but which shall in no case exceed five cents in the United States for each
parcel, whatever its weight, or three pence per pound weight in the Commonwealth of Australia.

ARTICLE 11 .
Fees to be retained. Each country shall retain to its own use the whole of the postages
and delivery fees it collects on parcels exchanged under this Convention ; consequently, this Convention will give rise to no separate accounts between the two countries.

ARTICLE 12.

Transportation .

1. The parcels shall be considered as a component part of the mails exchanged direct between the United States and the Commonwealth of Australia, to be despatched to destination by the country of origin at its cost and by such means as it provides ; but must be forwarded, at the option of the despatching office, either in boxes prepared expressly for the purpose or in ordinary mail sacks, marked " Parcels-

Post ", and securely sealed with wax, or otherwise, as may be mutually
agreed. Return of bags, etc.. 2. Each country shall promptly return empty to the despatching

Packing. Descriptive list.

office by next mail, subject to change by mutual agreement, all such bags and boxes.
3. Although articles admitted under this Convention will be transmitted as aforesaid between the exchange offices, they should be so carefully packed as to be safely transmitted in the open mails of either country, both in going to the exchange office in the country of origin, and to the office of address in the country of destination .
4. Each despatch of a Parcels-Post mail must be accompanied by a parcel bill giving a descriptive list, in duplicate, of all the parcels sent, showing distinctly the list number of each parcel, the name of the sender, the name of the addressee with address of destination, and

MAY 10. 1905. PARCELS- POST CONVENTION- AUSTRALIA . JUNE 19, 1905.
1
the declared contents and value ; and must be enclosed in one of the
boxes or sacks of such despatch (see Form 3. annexed hereto). 5. The parcel bills shall be numbered consecutively, commencing
with Number 1. on the 1st of January in each year, and each entry in a parcel bill shall be numbered consecutively , commencing with No. 1 .

2875 Post, p. 38.

ARTICLE 13 .

1. As soon as the mail shall have reached the office of destination, that office shall check the contents of the mail.
2. In the event of the parcel bill not having been received, a substitute should be at once prepared.
3. Any errors in the entries on the parcel bill which may be discovered, should, after verification by a second officer, be corrected

Receipt of mail . Parcel bill. Errors.

and noted for report to the despatching office on a form "Verification Certificate ", which should be sent in a special envelope.
4. If a parcel advised on the bill be not received, after the non-

Nonreceipt of par-

receipt has been verified by a second officer, the entry on the bill cels. should be cancelled , and the fact reported at once.

5. If a parcel be observed to be insufficiently prepaid , it must not Insufficient postage.

be taxed with deficient postage, but the circumstance must be reported on the verification certificate form.

6. Should a parcel be received in a damaged or imperfect condition, full particulars should be reported on the same form.
7. If no verification certificate or note of error be received, a parcel mail shall be considered as duly delivered , having been found on examination correct in all respects .

Damaged parcels. Correct mails.

ARTICLE 14.

1. If a parcel cannot be delivered as addressed, or is refused , it must be returned without charge, directly to the despatching office of exchange, at the expiration of thirty days from its receipt at the office of destination ; and the country of origin may collect from the sender for the return of the parcel, a sum equal to the postage when first mailed, provided, however, that parcels prohibited by Article 9, and those which do not conform to the conditions as to size , weight, and value, prescribed by Article 4, shall not necessarily be returned to country of origin, but may be disposed of, without recourse , in accordance with the customs laws and regulations of the country of destination .
2. When the contents of a parcel which cannot be delivered are liable to deterioration or corruption , they may be destroyed at once, if necessary, or if expedient, sold, without previous notice or judicial formality, for the benefit of the right person ; the particulars of each sale being notified by one post office to the other.
3. An order for redirection or reforwarding must be accompanied by the amount due for postage necessary for the return of the article to the office of origin, at the ordinary parcel rates.

Failure to deliver.
Ante, p. 2873. Ante, p. 2872. Perishable articles.
Reforwarding.

ARTICLE 15 .

. Neither

of the

countries parties

to this Convention will be respon-

No responsibility for loss, etc.

sible for the loss of or damage to any parcel, and no indemnity can

consequently be claimed from either country by the sender or

addressee of a parcel which may become lost or damaged in transmission through the post.

ARTICLE 16 .

Where not provided for in this Convention, the conditions as to the posting, transmission, and delivery of parcels, (including the levy of customs duty and other charges) and redirection within the limits of the country of destination shall be governed by the regulations of that country.

General provisions.

2874

MAY 10. 1905. PARCELS - POST CONVENTION-AUSTRALIA . JUNE 19, 1905.
live or dead animals , except dead insects and reptiles when thoroughly dried ; fruits and vegetables which easily decompose, and substances which exhale a bad odor ; lottery tickets, lottery advertisements, or lottery circulars, all obscene or immoral articles ; articles which may in any way damage or destroy the mails or injure the persons handling them, and any other articles prohibited by the laws or regulations of the country of origin or of destination from transmission by parcel
Should any parcel containing any such prohibited article be detected post. in transit through the post, the parcel will be, without other formality, returned to the despatching office of exchange ; unless the parcel contains a dangerous substance , in which case, it shall be destroyed.

Rates of postage.

ARTICLE 10.
1. The following rates of postage shall in all cases be required to be
fully prepaid with postage stamps of the country of origin, viz : 2. In the United States, for à parcel not exceeding one pound in
weight, twelve cents ; and for each additional pound or fraction of a

po3u.ndI,nttwheelvCeocmemntosn.wealth of Australia, for a parcel not exceeding one pound in weight, one shilling; and for each additional pound, or

Delivery.

fra4.ctiTohneofpaarcpeolus nsdha, lslibxepepnrcoem. ptly delivered to addressees at the Post Office of address in the country of destination free of charge for postage; but the country of destination may, at its option, levy and collect from the addressees for interior service and delivery a charge the amount of which is to be fixed according to its own regulations, but which shall in no case exceed five cents in the United States for each
parcel, whatever its weight, or three pence per pound weight in the
Commonwealth of Australia.

ARTICLE 11 .
Each country shall retain to its own use the whole of the postages Fees to be retained . and delivery fees it collects on parcels exchanged under this Conven-
tion; consequently, this Convention will give rise to no separate
accounts between the two countries.

Transportation .

ARTICLE 12 .
1. The parcels shall be considered as a component part of the mails exchanged direct between the United States and the Commonwealth of Australia, to be despatched to destination by the country of origin. at its cost and by such means as it provides ; but must be forwarded, at the option of the despatching office, either in boxes prepared expressly for the purpose or in ordinary mail sacks, marked " ParcelsPost", and securely sealed with wax , or otherwise, as may be mutually

ag2r.eeEda. ch country shall promptly return empty to the despatching Return of bags, etc.. office by next mail, subject to change by mutual agreement, all such

Packing. Descriptive list.

ba3g.s aAnldthboouxgehs.articles admitted under this Convention will be transmitted as aforesaid between the exchange offices, they should be so carefully packed as to be safely transmitted in the open mails of either
country, both in going to the exchange office in the country of origin,
and to the office of address in the country of destination. 4. Each despatch of a Parcels- Post mail must be accompanied by a
parcel bill giving a descriptive list, in duplicate, of all the parcels sent, showing distinctly the list number of each parcel, the name of the sender, the name of the addressee with address of destination, and

MAY 10. 1905. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION - AUSTRALIA. JUNE 19, 1905.

2875

the declared contents and value ; and must be enclosed in one of the boxes or sacks of such despatch (see Form 3. annexed hereto) .
5. The parcel bills shall be numbered consecutively, commencing with Number 1. on the 1st of January in each year, and each entry in a parcel bill shall be numbered consecutively, commencing with No. 1 .
ARTICLE 13.

Post, p. 38.

1. As soon as the mail shall have reached the office of destination, Receipt of maii.

that office shall check the contents of the mail.

2. In the event of the parcel bill not having been received , a substi- Parcel bill.

tute should be at once prepared. 3. Any errors in the entries on the parcel bill which may be dis- Errors.

covered, should, after verification by a second officer, be corrected

and noted for report to the despatching office on a form " Verification

Certificate ", which should be sent in a special envelope .

4.

If

a

parcel

advised

on

the

bill

be

not

received ,

after

the

non-

Nonreceipt cels.

of

par-

receipt has been verified by a second officer, the entry on the bill

should be cancelled , and the fact reported at once. 5. If a parcel be observed to be insufficiently prepaid, it must not Insufficientpostage.

be taxed with deficient postage, but the circumstance must be reported on the verification certificate form.

6. Should a parcel be received in a damaged or imperfect condition , full particulars should be reported on the same form.
7. If no verification certificate or note of error be received, a parcel mail shall be considered as duly delivered , having been found on examination correct in all respects.

Damaged parcels. Correct mails.

ARTICLE 14.

1. If a parcel cannot be delivered as addressed, or is refused , it must be returned without charge, directly to the despatching office of exchange, at the expiration of thirty days from its receipt at the office of destination ; and the country of origin may collect from the sender for the return of the parcel, a sum equal to the postage when first mailed, provided , however, that parcels prohibited by Article 9 , and those which do not conform to the conditions as to size, weight, and
value, prescribed by Article 4, shall not necessarily be returned to country of origin , but may be disposed of, without recourse, in accordance with the customs laws and regulations of the country of destination.
2. When the contents of a parcel which cannot be delivered are liable to deterioration or corruption , they may be destroyed at once, if necessary, or if expedient, sold, without previous notice or judicial formality, for the benefit of the right person ; the particulars of each sale being notified by one post office to the other.
3. An order for redirection or reforwarding must be accompanied by the amount due for postage necessary for the return of the article to the office of origin, at the ordinary parcel rates.

Failure to deliver,
Ante, p. 2873. Ante, p. 2872. Perishable articles.
Reforwarding .

ARTICLE 15 .

Neither

of

the

countries

parties

to

this

Convention

will be

respon-

No responsibility for

1

P

sible for the loss of or damage to any parcel, and no indemnity can

consequently be claimed from either country by the sender or

addressee of a parcel which may become lost or damaged in transmission through the post.

ARTICLE 16.

Where not provided for in this Convention , the conditions as to the posting, transmission, and delivery of parcels, (including the levy of customs duty and other charges) and redirection within the limits of the country of destination shall be governed by the regulations of that country .

General provisions.

2876

PARCELS- POST CONVENTION-AUSTRALÍA.

MAY 10, 1905. JUNE 19, 1905.

ARTICLE 17.

Further regulations. The Postmaster General of the United States of America and the Postmaster General of the Commonwealth of Australia shall from

time to time jointly make such further regulations of order and detail

Ante, p. 2873.

as may be found necessary to carry out the present Convention ; and may, by agreement, prescribe conditions for the admission to the mails of any of the articles prohibited by Article 9 of this Convention .

Duration, etc. Signatures.

ARTICLE 18.
This Convention shall take effect and operations thereunder shall begin on the first day of August 1905 , and shall continue in force until terminated by mutual agreement, but may be annulled at the desire of either country upon six months previous notice being given by one country to the other country.
Done at Melbourne this 10th day of May 1905. SYDNEY SMITH,
Postmaster- General Commonwealth of Australia.
And at Washington this 19th day of June 1905 . GEORGE B. CORTELYOU,
Postmaster- General of the United States of America.
The foregoing Parcels-Post Convention between the United States of America and the Commonwealth of Australia has been negotiated and concluded with my advice and consent, and is hereby approved and ratified .
In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT. [SEAL. ]

By the President , FRANCIS B. LOOMIS, Acting Secretary of State.
WASHINGTON, June 19, 1905.

Form 1.

FORM No. 1. Parcels- Post. A parcel addressed as under has been posted here this day:
Office stamp .
This certificate is given to inform the sender of the posting of a parcel, and does not indicate that any liability in respect of such parcel attaches to the Postmaster-General.

MAY 10, 1905. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION-AUSTRALIA. JUNE 19, 1905.

2877

FORM NO. 2.

Form 2.

Date. Stamp.

Parcels-Post between the United States and Australia.

FORM OF CUSTOMS DECLARATION.

Place to which
the parcel is addressed .

Description of parcel: [State whether box,
basket, bag,
etc.]

Contents.

Total Value. Per cent. customs
charges.

Total.

Date of posting

19.; signature and address of sender {

For use of Post-Office only, and to be filled up at the office of exchange:

Parcel Bill No...

No. of rates prepaid.....

; Entry No..

B.

Parcels Post from
The import duty assessed by an officer of customs on contents of this parcel amounts to ......, which must be paid before the parcel is delivered.

Date Stamp.

C.
Parcels Post from This parcel has been passed by an officer of customs and must be delivered
FREE OF CHARGE.

Customs Officer.
Date Stamp..

Postmaster- General.

2878

MAY 10, 1905. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION-AUSTRALIA. JUNE 19, 1905.

Form 3.

FORM NO. 3.

Date stamp of
dispatching exchange Post-Office.

Parcels from...

..for..

Parcel Bill No. ..... dated

-; per S. S.

* Sheet No. ....

Date stamp of
receiving exchange Post -Office .

Origin of Name of parcel. sender. Address of parcel. Declared Declared contents. value.

Remarks.

ENnot.ry roNafutemsber
.prepaid

Totals
*When more than one sheet is required for the entry of the parcels sent by the mail, it will be sufficient if the undermentioned particulars are entered on the last sheet of the Parcel Bill.
lbs. Total numberof parcels sent by the mail to Total weight of mail

Numberof boxes or other receptacles forming the mail...........

Deduct weight of receptacles

Signature of dispatching oficer at.. Post-Office ..

Net weight of parcels

Signature of receiving officer at..

Post -Office .

POSTAL CONVENTION- PANAMA. JUNE 19, 1905.

2879

Postal Convention between the United States of America and the Republic of Panama

June 19, 1905.-

Forthe purpose of making better postal arrangements between the United States of America and the
Republic of Panama, the undersigned, George B. Cortelyou, Postmaster-General of the United States of America, duly authorized thereto by law, and J. D. de Obaldia, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Washington, duly authorized thereto by the President of the Republic of Panama, have agreed upon the following articles:

Con la mira de establecer arie-
glos postales entre las Repúblicas de Panamá y los Estados Unidos de
América , la primera, por medio de J. D. de Obaldía, su Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario en Washington, plenamente autorizado por el Presidente de la República de Panamá, y los Estados Unidos por George B. Cortelyoú, Administrador General de Correos, de la segunda, debidamente autorizado por ley, han convenido en los siguientes artículos :

Preamble.

ARTICLE I.

ARTICULO I.

(a) Articles of every kind or nature, which are admitted to the domestic mails of either country, except as herein prohibited, shall be admitted to the mails exchanged under this Convention ; subject however to such regulations as the Postal Administration
of the country of destination may deem necessary for sanitary purposes, or to protect its customs revenues, or its taxes on commerce.
(b) But articles other than let-
ters in their usual and ordinary form, must never be closed against inspection, but must be so wrapped or inclosed that they may be readily and thoroughly examined by postmasters or customs officers
or postal employees. Except that there may be admitted to the mails exchanged between the United States and Panama unsealed packages which contain, in sealed re-
ceptacles, articles which can not be safely transmitted in unsealed receptacles; provided the contents.
of the closed receptacles are plain-

(a) Los objetos de toda clase 6 maAirltsic. les admitted to naturaleza que se admitan en las balijas domésticas de cada país, con excepción de los que aquí se prohiben , se admitirán en las balijas que se cambien conforme á esta Convención ; sujetos, sin embargo, á los reglamentos que considere

necesarios , para proteger sus rentas aduanales ó impuestos comer-
ciales, y para fines sanitarios, la Administración Postal del país de su destino. Pero los artículos que cloArsteidclaegsainnsottitnospebceno sean cartas en su forma usual tion.

y ordinaria, nunca se cerrarán á la inspeción, sino que se cubrirán ó envolverán de modo que puedan ser fácil y completamente examinados por los administradores de correos ó empleados de aduanas 6

de las agencias postales. Excepto que podrán admitirse en las balijas que se cambien entre Panamá y los Estados Unidos los paquetes no sellados que contengan, en re-

Exception.

ceptáculos sellados, artículos que no puedan remitirse con seguridad en receptáculos no sellados ; siem-

pre que el contenido de dichos

2880

POSTAL CONVENTION-PANAMA. JUNE 19, 1905.

ly visible or are precisely stated receptáculos cerrados esté plenaon the covers of the closed recep- mente visible ó se declare con

tacles, and that the package is so precisión en las cubiertas de los

wrapped that the outer cover can receptáculos cerrados, y que el

be easily opened.

paquete esté hecho de tal manera

que la cubierta exterior pueda abrirse con facilidad.

The following articles are prohibited admission to the mails exchanged under this Convention:
Articles prohibited. (a) Publications which violate

Se prohibe la admisión en las balijas que se cambien, conforme á esta Convención, de los objetos siguientes :
Las publicaciones que violen las

the copyright laws of the country leyes sobre propiedad literaria del

of destination ; packets, except país de su destino; paquetes de single volumes of printed books , todas clases, exceptuando un solo

the weight of which exceeds two libro impreso, aunque su peso ex-

kilograms ; liquids, poisons, ex- ceda de dos kilogramos ; los líqui-

<

plosive or inflammable substances,

dos, venenos, materias explosivas 1

fatty substances, those which easily ó inflamables , las grasosas, las

liquefy, live or dead animals (not fácilmente liquidables, animales dried), insects and reptiles, fruits vivos, los muertos no disecados ,

and vegetables which will easily insectos y reptiles, frutas y vegedecompose and substances which tales que puedan descomponerse

exhale a bad odor, lottery tickets fácilmente y sustancias que exor circulars, all obscene and im- halen un mal olor, billetes ó cir-

moral articles, other articles which culares de lotería, todo objeto

may destroy or in any way damage obsceno ó inmoral y todos los

the mails or injure the persons handling them.

demás objetos que puedan destruir
ó de alguna manera perjudicar á las balijas ó dañar á las personas

Freedom from in- (b) All admissible matter mailed spection.
in one country for the other, or

que las manejen . (b) Todos los objetos admitidos
en las balijas de un país y dirigidos

received in one country from the al otro, ó recibidos en un país del

other, shall be free from any de- otro, serán libres de detención 6

Post, p. 2886.

tention or inspection whatever, except such as is required by the regulations of the country of destination for the collection of its customs duties ; and shall in the first case be forwarded by the most speedy means to its destination, and in the latter be delivered to the respective persons to whom it

inspección de cualquiera clase, exceptuando lo establecido por los reglamentos del país de su destino para cobrar los derechos de importación y para fines sanitarios ; en el primer caso, serán enviados por la vía más rápida, y, en el segundo, serán entregados á las personas á quienes vayan dirigidos,

is addressed, being subject in its transmission to the laws and regulations of each country respectively. ARTICLE II.

quedando sujetos en su trasmisión á las leyes y reglamentos de cada país, respectivamente.
ARTICULO II.

Fees to be retained. (a) Each Administration shall
retain to its own use the whole of the postages and registration fees
it collects on postal articles ex-
changed with the other, including deficit postage. Consequently, there will be no postage accounts between the two countries.

Cada Administración de Correos
conservará, para su propio uso , el total del porte y los derechos de certificación que recaude sobre objetos postales cambiados con el otro país, incluyendo el porte insuficientemente pagado. En consecuencia, no se llevarán cuentas de porte de correos entre los dos países.

POSTAL CONVENTION- PANAMA. JUNE 19, 1905.

2881

(b) Articles other than letters

(b)

El

porte

de

los

artículos

que

Prepayment of postage.

and postal cards must be prepaid no sean cartas y tarjetas postales

at least in part. Letters and postal debe ser franqueado, al menos,

cards will be forwarded to the parcialmente; las cartas y las tarje-

country they are addressed to, even . tas postales serán remitidas al país

if they absolutely lack postage.

de su destino aunque carezcan en

absoluto de franqueo.

Payment of postage and regis- El pago del porte del derecho Stamps. tration fees shall be certified by de certificación se acreditarán

affixing the appropriate stamps of fijando las correspondientes estam-

the country of origin. (c) Each insufficiently prepaid

pillas de correo del país de su destino .
(c) Cada carta, cuyo porte no

Insufficient postage.

letter shall have stamped on its esté pagado por completo, llevará cover the capital letter T, and shall en su cubierta un sello con una

have indicated plainly thereon, in figures, on the upper left hand corner of the address, by the postal officials of the country of origin , the amount of the deficient postage, and only the amount so indi cated shall be collected of address-

letra T, mayúscula, y llevará indicado, en números claros, y en la esquina izquierda superior de su dirección, por los empleados de correo del país de su origen, la cantidad de porte no pagada, y sólamente esta cantidad será co-

ees on delivery , except in cases of brada á la persona á quien se dirija

obvious error.

al entregársela, exceptuando los

casos en que haya error manifiesto.

ARTICLE III.

ARTICULO III.

No postage charges shall be levied in either country on fully prepaid correspondence originating in the other, nor shall any charge be made in the country of destination upon official correspondence which under the postal regulations of the country of origin is entitled to freedom from postage ; but the country of destination will receive , forward and deliver the same free of charge.

En ninguno de los dos países se Fully prepaid car cobrará porte á la correspondencia respondence, etc.
debidamente franqueada en el otro ni se cobrará nada en el país de su destino á la correspondencia oficial que conforme á los reglamentos del país de su procedencia debe trasmitirse libre de porte ; sino que el país del destino recibirá, enviará y entregará la misma, libre de recargo.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTICULO IV.

In case any correspondence is tendered for mailing in either country, obviously with the intention to evade the higher postage rates applicable to it in the other country, it shall be refused , unless payment be made of such higher rates .

En caso de que se presente al correo de cualesquiera de los dos
países, alguna correspondencia , con la intención obvia de evadir la tarifa más alta que le corresponde en el otro país , no se admitirá sino en el caso de que se pague el porte de la tarifa más alta.

Evasion of payment

ARTICLE V.

ARTICULO V.

(a) Exchanges of mails under this Convention shall be effected
through the post-offices of both countries already designated as exchange post- offices , or through such offices as may be hereafter

El canje de correspondencia conforme á esta Convención se efec-
tuará por las oficinas de correos de ambos países , yá designadas como oficinas de canje, ó por medio de aquellas otras que puedan conve-

Exchange offices.

2882

POSTAL CONVENTION- PANAMA. JUNE 19 , 1905.

agreed upon, under suck regulations relative to the details of the exchanges as may be mutually determined to be essential to the se-
curity and expedition of the mails and the protection of the customs revenues or taxes on commerce.

Transportation expenses.

(b) Each country shall provide

for and bear the expense of the

conveyance of its mails to the other.

ARTICLE VI.

nirse en lo sucesivo , conforme á los reglamentos sobre detalles de los cambios que se expidieren mutuamente, y que se consideren esenciales para la seguridad y prontitud de los correos y para la protección de las rentas aduanales ó impuestos comerciales.
(b) Cada país sufragará los gastos de trasporte de sus balijas dirigidas al otro.
ARTICULO VI.

Transit mails.

of closed The United States of America and the Republic of Panama each grants to the other, free of any charges, detention , or examination whatsoever, the transit across its territory , of the CLOSED mails made up by any authorized exchange office of either country, addressed to any other exchange office of the same country or to any exchange office of the other country .
ARTICLE VII.

La República de Panamá y los Estados Unidos de América se conceden el uno al otro, libre de todo gasto, detención ó examen de cualquier género , él tránsito á través de su territorio de balijas cerradas, preparadas por cualquier oficina de canje autorizada de uno ú otro país y dirigidas á otra oficina de canje autorizada del mismo país ó á otra oficina igualmente autorizada para el canje del otro país.
ARTICULO VII .

Registry.

(a) Any packet of mailable cor- (a) Todo paquete de correspon-

respondence may be registered dencia que sea transmitido por el

upon payment of the rate of post- correo podrá certificarse pagando age and the registration fee ap- su porte y el derecho de certifica-

plicable thereto in the country of ción correspondiente en el país de

origin. Return of receipts.

su origen.

(b) An acknowledgment of the (b) Un recibo de la entrega de

delivery of a registered article un artículo certificado será de-

!

shall be returned to the sender vuelto al remitente , cuando así se

when requested ; but either coun- solicite; pero cada país podrá

try may require of the sender, prepayment of a fee therefor not exceeding five cents.

exigir del remitente el previo pago
de un derecho que no exceda de cinco centavos .

ARTICLE VIII .

ARTICULO VIII .

Descriptive list.

(a) Exchanges of ordinary international correspondence may be effected without the use of letter-bills; but registered correspondence must be accompanied by a descriptive list thereof, by means of which the registered articles may be identified for the purpose of acknowledgment by the receiving offices.

Nonreceipt of articlés.

(b) If a registered article ad-

vised shall not be found in the

mails by the receiving office , its

(a ) El canje de la correspondencia internacional ordinaria
puede efectuarse sin el uso de hojas de aviso ; pero la correspondencia certificada deberá ir acompañada de una lista descriptiva de ella , por medio de la cual los objetos certificados puedan identificarse, con el fin de que las oficinas receptoras acusen recibo de los mismos.
(b) Si alguna oficina receptora no encontrare en las balijas algún objeto certificado comprendido en

POSTAL CONVENTION-PANAMA. JUNE 19, 1905.

2883

absence shall be immediately reported by the receiving to the sending office.

la lista, notificará su falta inmediatamente á la oficina remitente .

ARTICLE IX.

ARTICULO IX.

Ordinary and registered exchanges, unless the latter be made
in through registered pouches, shall be effected in properly sealed sacks .

El canje de correspondencia ordinaria y certificada, excepto en
el caso de que el último se haga directamente en balijas certificadas , se efectuará en sacos debidamente sellados.

Sealed sacks.

ARTICLE X.

ARTICULO X.

(a) All registered articles , ordi-
nary letters, postal cards, and other manuscript matter, business or commercial papers, books

(a) Todos

los

objetos

certifica-

Return of nondelivered articles.

dos, cartas ordinarias, tarjetas !

postales , y otros manuscritos, do-

cumentos comerciales ó de nego-

(bound or stitched), proofs of printing, engravings , photographs, drawings, maps, and other articles manifestly of value to the sender, which are not delivered from any cause, shall be recipro-

cio, libros (empastados , encuadernados ó cosidos), pruebas de imprenta, grabados, fotografías, dibujos, mapas y otros objetos de manifiesto valor para el remitente, que no se entreguen por cual-

cally returned without charge, through the central administrations of the two countries in special packets or sacks marked " Rebuts," after the expiration of the period for their retention required by the laws or regulations of the country of destination ; the re-

quiera causa, serán recíprocamente devueltos sin estipendio alguno, por conducto de las Administraciones centrales de los dos países, en paquetes ó sacos especiales
marcados " Rebuts," después de que expire el término de su retención exigido por las leyes ó regla-

turned registered articles to be mentos del país de su destino .

accompanied by a descriptive list, and the special packets or sacks used for returning registered articles to be returned under regis-
tration, when registered articles are returned in them.

Los objetos certificados que se devuelvan irán acompañados de una lista descriptiva de los mismos, y los paquetes ó sacos especiales que se usen para la devolución de los objetos certificados , se devolverán cuando contengan al-

(b) Fully prepaid letters which bear requests by the senders for their return in case of nondelivery by a certain date, or within a specified time, shall be reciprocally returned, without charge, directly to the dispatching exchange office, at the expiration of the period for their retention indicated in the requests .
(c) Fully prepaid letters bearing on the covers the business cards , the names and addresses of the

gunos de los objetos rezagados que hayan sido certificados.
(b) Las cartas totalmente fran- Return of prepaid letters.
queadas con el ruego por parte de If requested . los que las envían de que se devuelvan en caso de que no se entreguen dentro de cierta fecha, ó dentro de un período de tiempo especificado , serán recíprocamente devueltas sin recargo alguno directamente á la oficina de canje remitente, al expirar el plazo de su retención indicado en el ruego,
(c) Las cartas totalmente fran- Having address of queadas que lleven en sus cubiertas senders, etc. las razones sociales ó los nombres

senders, or designation of places to which they may be returned (as post-office box, street and number,

ó direcciones de los remitentes, ó la designación de lugares adonde puedan devolverse, como apartado

2884

POSTAL CONVENTION -PANAMA. JUNE 19 , 1905.

etc. ), without requests for their return in case of non delivery within a specified time, shall be reciprocally returned without charge directly to the dispatching exchange office at the expiration of thirty days from the date of their receipt at the office of destination .

del correo, calle y número etc. , sin ruego de que se devuelvan, en caso de que no se entreguen en un período de tiempo determinado , serán recíprocamente devueltas sin estipendio alguno, directamente á la oficina de canje remitente, al expirar el término de treinta días contados desde la fecha de su recibo en las oficinas de su destino .

ARTICLE XI.

ARTICULO XI.

Universal Postal All matters connected with the

Convention regula-

tions to govern.

exchange of mails between the

two countries which are not here

in provided for shall be governed

bythe provisions of the Universal Postal Convention and regulations

now in force, or which may hereafter be enacted , for the govern-

ment of such matters in the exchange of mails between countries

of the Universal Postal Union generally, so far as the articles of

such Universal Postal Convention shall be obligatory upon both of the contracting parties.

Todos los asuntos que se relacionen con el cambio de balijas entre los dos países, que no estén determinados en esta Convención , se regirán por las estipulaciones de la Convención Postal Universal y los reglamentos que están ahora vigentes, ó que en adelante se acuerden para el régimen de los cambios de balijas entre los países que pertenezcan á la Unión Postal Universal en general, en cuanto los artículos de la expresada Convención Postal Universal, sean obligatorios para ambas partes contratantes .

ARTICLE XII .

ARTICULO XII.

Further regulations. The Postmaster General of the

United States of America and the

Government of the Republic of

Panama shall have authority to jointly make such further regula

tions of order and detail as may be

found necessary to carry out the present Convention from time to

time; and may by agreement prescribe conditions for the admis-

Ante, p. 2880.

sion to the mails of any of the articles prohibited by Article I.

El Gobierno de la República de
Panamá y el Administrador General de Correos de los Estados Unidos de América tendrán facultad de expedir unidos, de tiempo en tiempo, los reglamentos ulteriores de orden y detalle que fueren necesarios para cumplir la presente Convención y podrán por mutuo convenio establecer las condiciones para la admisión , en las balijas, de cualesquiera de los objetos prohibidos en el Artículo I.

ARTICLE XIII.

ARTICULO XIII .

Effect.

This Convention abrogates the

postal relations existing between

caEtixocnhsa. nge of ratifi- the two countries. It shall be ratified by the contracting countries

in accordance with their respective laws and its ratification shall be

exchanged at the city of Washing-

ton as early as possible. It shall

take effect thirty days from the

exchange of ratifications and shall

Esta convención abroga las rela-
ciones postales existentes entre ambos países. Será ratificada por los países contratantes de acuerdo con sus respectivas leyes, y sus ratificaciones se canjearán en la ciudad de Washington tan pronto como sea posible. Comenzará á regir treinta días después del canje de ratificaciones y continuará en

POSTAL CONVENTION- PANAMA. JUNE 19, 1905.

2885

continue in force until terminated by mutual agreement, or annulled at the instance of the Post-Office Department of either country, upon six months previous notice , given to the other.

vigencia hasta que se denuncie de común acuerdo ó se terinine la instancia de cualesquiera de los dos países, previa una notificación hecha al otro con seis meses de anticipación.

Done in duplicate, and signed at Washington the 19th day of June

one thousand nine hundred and five.

[SEAL. ]

GEORGE B. CORTELYOU,

Postmaster- General of the United States of America.

J. D. DE OBALDIA

Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario de Panamá en los Estados Unidos de América.

Signatures.

The foregoing Convention between the United States of America

and Panama has been negotiated and concluded with my advice and:

consent, and is hereby approved and ratified.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the United States

to be hereunto affixed.

[SEAL. ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

Approval.

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS, Acting Secretary of State,
WASHINGTON, June 19th, 1905.

The undersigned, George B. Cortelyou , Postmaster-General of the United States of America, and J. D. de Obaldia, Envoy Extraor-

dinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Panama at Washington, having met for the purpose of exchanging the ratifications of the Postal Convention concluded between the United States of

America and the Republic of Panama and signed at Washington June 19th, 1905 , and having carefully compared the ratifications of said Convention and found them exactly conformable to each other, the exchange took place this day in the usual form .
In witness whereof, they have signed the present protocol of exchange and have affixed thereto their seals.

Done at Washington this 19th day of June, one thousand nine hupdred and five.

[ SEAL]

GEORGE B. CORTELYOU,

Postmaster- General of the United States of America.

[SEAL ]

J. D. DE OBALDIA

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary from the Republic of Panama to the United States of America.

Ratification.

2884

POSTAL CONVENTION- PANAMA. JUNE 19 , 1905.

etc. ), without requests for their return in case of non delivery within a specified time, shall be reciprocally returned without charge directly to the dispatching exchange office at the expiration of thirty days from the date of their receipt at the office of destination .

del correo, calle y número etc. , sin ruego de que se devuelvan, en
caso de que no se entreguen en un período de tiempo determinado , serán recíprocamente devueltas
sin estipendio alguno, directamente á la oficina de canje remitente, al expirar el término de treinta días contados desde la fecha de su recibo en las oficinas de su destino.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTICULO XI.

Universal Postal All matters connected with the Convention regula- tions to govern. exchange of mails between the
two countries which are not here
in provided for shall be governed by the provisions of the Universal Postal Convention and regulations now in force, or which may hereafter be enacted, for the government of such matters in the exchange of mails between countries of the Universal Postal Union generally, so far as the articles of such Universal Postal Convention shall be obligatory upon both of the contracting parties.

Todos los asuntos que se relacionen con el cambio de balijas entre los dos países, que no estén determinados en esta Convención , se regirán por las estipulaciones de la Convención Postal Universal y los reglamentos que están ahora vigentes, ó que en adelante se acuerden para el régimen de los cambios de balijas entre los países que pertenezcan á la Unión Postal Universal en general, en cuanto los artículos de la expresada Convención Postal Universal, sean obligatorios para ambas partes contratantes.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTICULO XII .

Further regulations. The Postmaster General of the United States of America and the

Government of the Republic of Panama shall have authority to jointly make such further regula tions of order and detail as may be

found necessary to carry out the

present Convention from time to time; and may by agreement prescribe conditions for the admis-

Ante, p. 2880.

sion to the mails of any of the articles prohibited by Article I.

El Gobierno de la República de Panamá y el Administrador General de Correos de los Estados Unidos de América tendrán facultad de expedir unidos, de tiempo en tiempo, los reglamentos ulteriores de orden y detalle que fueren
necesarios para cumplir la presente Convención y podrán por mutuo convenio establecer las condiciones para la admisión , en las balijas, de cualesquiera de los objetos prohibidos en el Artículo I.

ARTICLE XIII.

ARTICULO XIII .

Effect.

This Convention abrogates the

postal relations existing between

caEtixocnhsa. nge of ratifi- the two countries. It shall be ratified by the contracting countries in accordance with their respective

laws and its ratification shall be

exchanged at the city of Washing-

ton as early as possible. It shall

take effect thirty days from the

exchange of ratifications and shall

Esta convención abroga las relaciones postales existentes entre ambos países. Será ratificada por los países contratantes de acuerdo con sus respectivas leyes, y sus ratificaciones se canjearán en la ciudad de Washington tan pronto como sea posible. Comenzará á regir treinta días después del canje de ratificaciones y continuará en

POSTAL CONVENTION- PANAMA. JUNE 19, 1905.

2885

continue in force until terminated by mutual agreement, or annulled at the instance of the Post-Office
Department of either country, upon six months previous notice given to the other .

vigencia hasta que se denuncie de común acuerdo ó se terinine la instancia de cualesquiera de los dos países, previa una notificación hecha al otro con seis meses de anticipación .

Done in duplicate, and signed at Washington the 19th day of June

one thousand nine hundred and five.

[SEAL. ]

GEORGE B. CORTELYOU,

Postmaster- General of the United States of America.

J. D. DE OBALDIA

Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario . de Panamá en los Estados Unidos de América.

Signatures.

The foregoing Convention between the United States of America

and Panama has been negotiated and concluded with my advice and:

consent, and is hereby approved and ratified.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the United States

to be hereunto affixed. [ SEAL. ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

Approval.

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS, Acting Secretary of State,
WASHINGTON, June 19th, 1905.

The undersigned, George B. Cortelyou, Postmaster-General of the Ratification.

United States of America, and J. D. de Obaldia, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Panama at Washington, having met for the purpose of exchanging the ratifications of the Postal Convention concluded between the United States of

America and the Republic of Panama and signed at Washington June 19th, 1905 , and having carefully compared the ratifications of said Convention and found them exactly conformable to each other, the exchange took place this day in the usual form .
In witness whereof, they have signed the present protocol of exchange and have affixed thereto their seals .

Done at Washington this 19th day of June, one thousand nine hup-

dred and five.

[SEAL]

GEORGE B. CORTELYOU,

[SEAL]

Postmaster- General of the United States of America. J. D. DE OBALDIA

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary from the Republic of Panama to the United States of America.

2886

POSTAL CONVENTION-PANAMA. JUNE 19, 1905.

July 19, 1905.

Amendment to the postal convention between the United States and Panama, of June, 1905.

Amendment to postal convention.

For the purpose of perfecting

Ante, p 2879.

the Postal Convention between the

United States of America and the

Republic of Panama, signed at

Washington on the 19th of June,

1905; the undersigned, George B. Cortelyou , Postmaster- General of

the United States of America, and

Con el propósito de perfeccionar la Convención Postal entre la República de Panamá y los Estados Unidos de América, firmada en Washington el día 19 de Junio de 1905, los que abajo firman , J. D. de Óbaldía, Enviado Extraordi nario y Ministro Plenipotenciario

J. D. de Obaldía, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipoten-

tiary of the Republic of Panama,

in the exercise of powers duly con-

ferred upon them, have agreed

New paragraph.

upon the following amendment to said Postal Convention:
Add to Article 1 of the Conven-

tion the following paragraph:

Classification and "(c) The classification of, and rates of postage, etc.

Ante, p. 2880.

the rates of postage and the regis-

tration fee to be levied and col-

lected upon, mail matter originat-

ing in either country and addressed to the other, shall be in accordance

with the domestic laws and regu-

lations of the country of origin;

provided, that the rates of postage

and registration fees so levied shall

not exceed in either country the

minimum rates of postage and reg-

istration fee prescribed for articles

of a like nature, by the Articles of the Universal Postal Convention

which is in force."

Done in duplicate and signed at
Washington the 19th day of July, one thousand · nine hundred and five.

de Panamá, y George B. Cortelyou, Administrador General de Correos de los Estados Unidos de
América, ejerciendo poderes debidamente conferidos á ellos, han convenido en la siguiente enmienda á dicho Convenio Postal:
Agreguese al Artículo 1 de la Convención el siguiente parágrafo:
66 " (c) La clasificación, el porte y el derecho de certificación que se exijan y recauden sobre objetos trasmitidos en las balijas que se originen en un país y sean dirigidas al ótro, serán los establecidos por las leyes y los reglamentos domésticos del país de su origen, siempre que el porte y derecho de certificación que se exijan no excedan en ninguno de los dos países, del mínimum del porte y derecho de certificación prescritos para objetos de la misma naturaleza, por los artículos de la Convención Pos-
tal Universal que esté en vigor:" Hecho por duplicado y firmado
en Washington el día 19 de Julio de mil novecientos cinco.

[ SEAL. ]

GEO. B. CORTELYOU , Postmaster- General of the United States of America.

[ SEAL. ]

J. D. DE OBALDÍA,

Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario

de Panamá en los Estados Unidos de América.

Approval.

The aforegoing Amendment has been negotiated and concluded with

my advice and consent, and is hereby approved and ratified . In testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the United States
to be hereunto affixed.

[SEAL. ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE ,
Acting Secretary of State, Washington, July 24, 1905.

TREATY - DENMARK. NOVEMBER 6 , 1905.

2887

Supplementary treaty between the United States and Denmark for the extradition of criminals. Signed at Washington, November 6, 1905; ratification advised by the Senate, December 7, 1905; ratified by the President, February 13, 1906; ratified by Denmark, December 14, 1905; ratifications exchanged at Washington, February 19, 1906; proclaimed, February 19, 1906.

November 6, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Supplementary Convention between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Denmark providing for the extension of the Treaty of January 6 , 1902, to their respective island possessions and colonies and adding the crime of bribery to the list of extraditable crimes contained in Article II of the said Treaty of January 6 , 1902 , was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Washington, on the sixth day of November, one thousand nine hundred and five, the original of which Supplementary Convention, being in the English and Danish languages, is word for word as follows :

Preamble. Vol . 32, p. 1906.

The United States of America
and His Majesty the King of Denmark, agreeing that the convention for the extradition of criminals signed by their Plenipotentiaries at Washington on January 6, 1902, is applicable to their respective island possessions or colonies, and desiring to define the procedure by which applications for the surrender of accused persons from such island possessions or colonies shall be made, and to add to the list of extraditable crimes mentioned in Article II of the said convention of January 6, 1902, by means of an additional convention , have to that end appointed as their Plenipoten tiaries :
The President of the United States of America, Elihu Root, Secretary of State of the United States; and
His Majesty the King of Denmark, Mr. Constantin Brun, Com-
VOL XXXIV, PT 3--4

Da de Amerikanske Forenede
Stater og Hans Majestæt Kongen af Danmark ere enige om, at den af deres Befuldmægtigede d. 6. Januar 1902 i Washington undertegnede Konvention angaaende Udlevering af Forbrydere er anvendelig paa deres respektive Bilande og Kolonier, og endvidere önske, i en Tillægskonvention , at fastslaa den Fremgangsmaade der vil være at benytte ved Begæringen om Udlevering af anklagede Personer fra saadanne Bilande og Kolonier, samt at göre en Tilföjelse til den i Artikel II i nævnte Kon vention af 6. Januar 1902 anförte Fortegnelse om Forbrydelser, for hvilke Udlevering kan begæres, have de til det Formaal udnævnt til deres Befuldmægtigede :
Præsidenten for de amerikanske Forenede Stater, Elihu Root, de Forenede Staters Statssekretær ; og
Hans Majestæt Kongen af Danmark, Hr. Constantin Brun, Kom-

Contracting parties Plenipotentiaries

2888

TREATY DENMARK. NOVEMBER 6, 1905.

mander of the Order of Danne-
broge and decorated with the Cross of Honor of the same Order, His Majesty's Chamberlain and Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Washington;
Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, found in due and good form, have agreed upon and concluded the following articles :

mandör af Dannebroge og Dannebrogsmand, Hans Majestæts Kammerherre og overordentlige Gesandt og befuldmægtigede Minister i Washington ;
Hvilke, efter at have meddelt binanden deres respektive Fuldmagter, der befandtes i rigtig og god Form, ere blevne enige om og have vedtaget fölgende Artikler:

ARTICLE I.

ARTIKEL I.

Extradition provisions extended to

In the case of crimes committed

icsollaonndiepso.ssessions and in the island possessions or coloVol. 32, p. 1906. nies of the contracting parties, ap-

plications for the surrender of the

accused may be made directly to the Governor or Chief Magistrate

of the island possession or colony

in which the fugitive has sought

refuge, by the Governor or Chief Magistrate of the colony or island

Limitation.

possession of the other contracting party, provided that both is-

land possessions or colonies are situated in America. The afore-

said Governors or Chief Magis-

trates shall have authority either

to grant the extradition or to refer

the matter for decision to the Gov-

ernment of the mother country. In all other cases applications for

extradition shall be made through

the diplomatic channel.

Where a fugitive criminal is ar-

rested in the Philippine Islands, the Hawaiian Islands, Faroe Is-

lands, or Iceland he may be pro-

visionally detained for a period of four months.

Naar Forbrydelser ere blevne begaaede i de kontraherende Parters Bilande og Kolonier, kunne Begæringer om de Anklagedes Udlevering fremsættes direkte til Guvernören over eller den överste Myndighed i det Biland eller den Koloni, hvor Flygtningen har sögt Tilflugt, af Guvernören over eller den överste Myndighed i den anden kontraherende Parts Koloni eller Biland , forudsat at begge Bilande eller Kolonier ligge i Amerika.
Fornævnte Guvernörer eller
överste Myndigheder skulle være bemyndigede til enten at tilstaa Udleveringen eller at henvise Sagen til Afgörelse af Moderlandets Regering. I alle andre Tilfælde skulle Begæringer om Udlevering fremsættes ad diplomatisk Vej.
Naar en flygtet Forbryder er anholdt paa Filippinerne, Hawaii Øerne, Færöerne eller Island , kan han holdes forelöbig arresteret i et Tidsrum af fire Maaneder.

ARTICLE II.

ARTIKEL II.

Additional extraditable crime.

In addition to the crimes and

Vol . 32, p. 1907. offenses mentioned in Article II of

the convention between the United.

States of America and the Kingdom of Denmark for the extradition of criminals, signed at Wash-

ington on January 6, 1902, extradition shall be granted also for the following crime or offense :

Bribery.

Bribery, defined to be the offer-
ing, giving or receiving of bribes, when made punishable by the laws of the two contracting parties.

Foruden de Forbrydelser og
Lovovertrædelser, der ere opregnede i Artikel II i Konventionen
mellem de amerikanske Forenede Stater og Kongeriget Danmark angaaende Udlevering af Forbrydere, undertegnet i Washington d . 6 Januar 1902 , skal Udlevering tilstaas ogsaa for fölgende For brydelse eller Lovovertrædelse :
Bestikkelse , det vil sige den
Handling at tilbyde, give eller modtage Stikpenge, naar saadant er strafbart efter de to kontraherende Parters Lovgivning.

TREATY- DENMARK. NOVEMBER 6, 1905.

2889

ARTICLE III.

ARTIKEL III .

The present convention shall be considered as an integral part of the said extradition convention of January 6, 1902, and shall be ratified according to the respective laws of the two contracting parties. The ratifications shall be ex-
changed at Washington as soon as possible.
In testimony whereof, the re-
spective plenipotentiaries have signed the above articles, both in the English and Danish languages and have hereunto affixed their seals.
Done in duplicate, at the City of Washington, this sixth day of November, nineteen hundred and five.

Nærværende Konvention skal Exchange of ratifications.
betragtes som en integrerende Del af nævnte Udleveringskonvention af 6. Januar 1902 og skal ratificeres i Overensstemmelse med de to kontraherende Parters respektive Lovgivning. Ratifikationerne skulle udvexles i Wash-
ington saa snart som muligt. Til Bekræftelse heraf have de Signatures.
respektive befuldmægtigede undertegnet foranstaaende Artikler baade i det engelske og i det danske Sprog samt herunder sat deres Segl.
Givet i dobbelt Udfærdigelse i Staden Washington den sjette Dag af November Nitten Hundrede og fem .

ELIHU ROOT [L. S. ]

C. BRUN

[L. S.

And whereas the said Supplementary Convention has been duly ratified on both parts, and the ratifications of the two governments
were exchanged in the City of Washington, on the nineteenth day of February, one thousand nine hundred and six ;
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, Presi-

dent of the United States of America, have caused the said Supplementary Convention to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof, may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this nineteenth day of February, in

[SEAL]

the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

Ratification. Proclamation.

2890

COPYRIGHT CONVENTION-JAPAN. NOVEMBER 10 , 1905.

November 10, 1905.

Copyright convention between the United States and Japan. Signed at Tokio November 10, 1905; ratification advised by the Senate February 28, 1906; ratified by the President March 7, 1906; ratified by Jupan April 28, 1906; ratifications exchanged at Tokio May 10, 1906; proclaimed May 17, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and

Copyrights in Japan

and the United States. the Empire of Japan, providing for legal protection in both countries

in regard to copyright, was concluded and signed by their respective

Plenipotentiaries at Tokio on the tenth day of November, one thousand nine hundred and five , the original of which Convention being in

the English and Japanese languages is word for word as follows : Contracting powers. The President of the United States of America and His Majesty the

Emperor of Japan being equally desirous to extend to their subjects

Plenipotentiaries.

and citizens the benefit of legal protection in both countries in regard to copyright, have, to this end , decided to conclude a Convention , and have appointed as their respective Plenipotentiaries:
The President of the United States of America, Lloyd C. Griscom,

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States

of America to Japan; and

His Majesty the Emperor of Japan, General Count Taro Katsura,

Junii, First Class of the Imperial Order of the Rising Sun, Third

Class of the Imperial Order of the Golden Kite, His Imperial Majesty's

Minister of State for Foreign Affairs;

Who, having reciprocally communicated their full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed as follows:

ARTICLE I.

Reciprocal rights to citizens of each coun-

The subjects or citizens of each of the two High Contracting Parties

try.

shall enjoy in the dominions of the other, the protection of copyright

for their works of literature and art as well as photographs , against

illegal reproduction, on the same basis on which protection is granted

to the subjects or citizens of the other, subject however to the provisions of Article II of the present Convention .

ARTICLE II.

Translation ofbooks, etc., without authori-

The subjects or citizens of each of the two High Contracting Parties

zation.

may without authorization translate books, pamphlets or any other

writings, dramatic works, and musical compositions, published in the

dominions of the other by the subjects or citizens of the latter, and

print and publish such translations.

COPYRIGHT CONVENTION- JAPAN. NOVEMBER 10 , 1905.

2891

ARTICLE III.

The present Convention shall be ratified, and the ratifications thereof

shall be exchanged at Tokio as soon as possible. It shall come into operation from the date of the exchange of ratifications, and shall be applicable to such works only as shall be published after it shall have come into operation . Either of the Contracting Parties shall have the right at any time, to give notice to the other of its intention to
terminate the present Convention , and at the expiration of three months after such notice is given this Convention shall wholly cease and determine.

In witness whereof the above mentioned Plenipotentiaries have

signed the present Convention and have affixed thereto their seals.

Done in duplicate at Tokio, in the English and Japanese languages,

this 10th day of November, of year one thousand nine hundred and

five, corresponding to the 10th day of the 11th month of the 38th year

of Meiji. [ SEAL. ] [ SEAL. ]

LLOYD C. GRISCOM. TARO. KATSURA .

Ratification. Signatures.

Exchange of ratifiAnd whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified on both cations.

parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged in the City of Tokio on the tenth day of May , one thousand nine hundred and six ;
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President

Proclamation.

of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention to

be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause

thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this seventeenth day of
May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and [ SEAL ]
six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirtieth .
THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President :
ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

[Japanese text not printed.]

1

2892

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- SWEDEN. NOVEMBER 14, 1905. DECEMBER 14, 1905.

November 14, 1905. Parcels Post convention between the United States of America and the

December 14, 1905.

Kingdom of Sweden.

Preamble.

For the purpose of making better postal arrangements between the United States of America and
Sweden, the undersigned George B. Cortelyou Postmaster-General of the United States of America, and E. von Krusenstjerna, Director- General of Posts of Sweden, by virtue of authority vested in them, have agreed upon the following articles for the establishment of a Parcels- Post System of exchanges between the two countries.
ARTICLE I.

I afsikt att förbättra postförbindelserna mellan Sverige och Amerikas Förenta Stater hafva undertecknade, E. von Krusenstjerna , Generalpostdirektör i Sverige, och George B. Cortelyou , Generalpostmästare i Amerikas Förenta Stater, i kraft af dem meddeladt bemyndigande öfverenskommit om följande artiklar angående utväxling af paketpost mellan de begga länderna.
ARTIKEL I.

Extent of conven- The provisions of this Convention.
tion relate only to parcels of mail matter to be exchanged by the system herein provided for , and do not affect the arrangements now
existing underthe Universal Postal Convention , which will continue as heretofore ; and all the agreements hereinafter contained apply exclusively to mails exchanged under these articles, directly between the office of New York, and such other offices within the United States as
may be hereafter designated by the Postmaster-General of the United
States; and the office of Malmö, and such other offices within Sweden as may be hereafter designated by the Director- General of Posts of Sweden.

Bestämmelserna i detta aftal gälla endast postpaket, som utväxlas enligt det häri fastslagne system , och medföra ingen ändring i gäl lande bestämmelser uti världspostkonventionen , hvilka fortfarande skola gälla såsom hittils ; alla i det följande innefattade bestämmelser gälla uteslutande de poster, som i enlighet med dessa artiklar utväxlas direkt mellan å ena siden postkontoret i Malmö och de andra postkontor i Sverige, som senare må of Svenska Generalpoststyrelsen bestämmas , samt å andra sidan postkontoret i New York och de andra postkontor i Amerikas Förenta Stater, som framdeles må af Förenta Staternas Generalpostmästare bestämmas.

ARTICLE II.

Articles admitted to the mails.

There shall be admitted to the

mails exchanged under this Con-

vention, articles of merchandise

and mail matter-except letters ,

postcards and written matter of all kinds that are admitted under

any conditions to the domestic

ARTIKEL II.
I poster, som utväxlas jämlikt detta aftal, kunna befordras varor och post försändelser - med udantag af bref, brefkort och skriftliga meddelanden af hvarje slag- såvida försendelserna öfver hufvud taget kunna postbefordras i den inri-

PARCELS- POST CONVENTION SWEDEN . NOVEMBER 14, 1905. DECEMBER 14, 1905.

2893

mails of the country of origin, except that no packet must exceed fifty dollars ($50) or its equivalent in value, 4 pounds 6 ounces [ or 2 kilograms] in weight, nor the following dimensions : Greatest length in any direction, three feet six inches [ 105 centimeters ] ; greatest length and girth combined, six feet [ 180 centimeters] ; and must be so wrapped or inclosed as to permit their contents to be easily examined by customs officers and by postmasters duly authorized to do so ; and except that the following articles are prohibited :
Publications which violate the
copyright laws of the country of destination; poisons , and explosive or inflammable substances; fatty substances ; liquids , and those which easily liquefy ; confections and pastes: live or dead animals, except dead insects and reptiles when thoroughly dried ; fruits and vegetables which easilydecompose, and substances which exhale a bad odor; lottery tickets, lottery advertisements, or lottery circulars ; all obscene or immoral articles ; articles which may in any way damage or destroy the mails, or injure the persons handling them.

kes postutväxlingen i inlämningslandet. Dock må icke något paket öfverstiga i värde 50 dollars eller motsvarande belopp, eller i vikt 2 kilogram ( = 4 engelska skålpund 6 uns) och ej heller öfverskrida följande mått, nämligen i längd, bredd eller höjd 105 centimeter
( = 3 engelska fot 6 tum) samt i längd och omfång tilsammans 180
centimeter ( = 6 engelska fot). Vidare skola paketen vara så inslagna , att deras innehåll må kunna lätteligen undersökas af tulltjänste-
män och vederbörande postfunktionärer.
Följande föremål må icke befordras , nämligen, publikationer, som kränka adresslandets lagar angående den litterära äganderättan; gifter och explosiva eller lätt antändliga ämnen; fettämnen , vätskor och sådane ämnen , som lätt öfvergå i flytande form ; sockerbageriarbeten och bakverk ; lefvande och döda djur med udantag af döda insekter och reptilier i fullständigt torkadt tillstånd ; frukter och grönsaker, som lätt öfvergå till förruttnelse , illaluktande
ämnen; lottsedlar, tillkännagif vanden angående lotteri samt lottericirkulär; föremål af oanständig eller omoralisk art; samt sådane föremål , hvilka kunna på något sätt skada eller förstöra postforsendelserna eller medföra fara
för de personer, som háfva att behandla desamma. 1

Articles prohibited.

ARTICLE III.

ARTIKEL III.

A letter or communication of the
nature of personal correspondence must not accompany, be written on, or inclosed with any parcel.
If such be found, the letter will be placed in the mails if separable, and if the communication be inseparably attached, the whole package will be rejected . If, however, any such should inadvertently be forwarded, the country of destination may collect on the letter or letters, double rates of postage according to the Univer sal Postal Convention.

Bref eller meddelande, soin har Letters must not accompany parcels.
karaktär af personlig skriftväxling, må icke atfölja postpaket, ej heller vara skrifvet utanpå paketet eller inneslutet i detsamma. \
Anträffas sådant bref eller med- Rejection.
delande, skall detsamma, om det kan skiljas från paketet, befordras särskildt ; men om brefvet eller meddelandet icke kan skiljas från paketet, skall postbefordran vägras hela försendelsen . Skulle likväl en dylik forsändelse blifvit på grund af förbiseende befordrad, kan adresslandet för brefvet eller brefven utkräfva dubbelt porto i enlighet med världspostkonventionens bestämmelser.

2894 Address

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION-SWEDEN.

NOVEMBER 14, 1905. DECEMBER 14, 1995.
1

No parcel may contain parcels intended for delivery at an address other than that borne by the parcel itself. If such inclosed parcels be detected , they must be sent forward singly, charged with new and distinct parcels -post rates.

Intet paket må innehålla paketförsendelser med annan adressbetekning än den, som paketet själft bär. Upptäckas så beskaffade paket, inneslutna i ett annat, skola de befordras hvart och ett för sig och beläggas med nya, särskilda paketporton.

Retes of postage.

ARTICLE IV .

ARTIKEL IV.

The packages in question shall be subject in the country of destination to all customs duties and all customs regulations in force in that country for the protection of its customs revenues, and to the following rates of postage, which shall in all cases be required to be FULLY PREPAID, viz:
In the United States ; for a par-
cel not exceeding one pound [ 455 grams ] in weight, 12 cents; and for each additional pound [455 grams ] or fraction of a pound, 12 cents ;
In Sweden; for a parcel not ex-
ceeding 1 kilogram in weight, 80 öre, and for other parcels, 1 krona 40 öre.

Ifrågavarande paket skola i adresslandet vara underkastade alla där gällande tullafgifter och tullbestämmelser. Följande portosatser, hvilka altid skola i förväg till fulls erläggas , äro bestämda att gälla, nämligen :
I Sverige för ett paket, i vikt icke öfverstigande 1 kilogram , 80 öre och för öfriga paket 1 krona 40 öre ;
I Förenta Staterna för ett paket ivikt icke öfverstigande 1 engelskt skålpund ( = 455 gram) 12 cents och för hvarje ytterligare skålpund (= 455 gram) eller del däraf 12 cents.

ARTICLE V.

ARTIKEL V.

Customs declaration .

The sender of each package must

make a Customs Declaration , upon

Post, p. 2899.

a special form provided for the purpose [ see Form 1 , "A" annexed bereto], giving the address, a gen eral description of the parcel, an

Receipt.

accurate statement of the contents and value, date of mailing , and the sender's signature and place of residence ; which declaration must accompany the parcel to destination .
Either country may authorize

the postoffice where the package is mailed to deliver to the sender

Post, p. 2899. Return receipt.

of the package at the time of mailing, a certificate of mailing on a form like Form 2 annexed hereto.
The sender of a package may

have the same registered by paying the registration fee required for registered articles in the country of origin , and, on demand there-

for, will receive a return receipt, without additional charge.

För hvarje paket skall afsändaren afgifva en tulldeklaration å en för detta ändamål afsedd särskild
blankett (se här bifogade formulär 1 , " A" ) , innehåldande paketets adress, en allmän beskrifning af detsamma, noggrann uppgift å innehället och värdet, dagen för inlämnandet samt afsändarens
namnunderskrift och adress ; denna deklaration skall åtfölja paketet till adressorten.
Hvartdera landet äger bemyn-
diga indlämningspostanstalten att vid ett pakets aflämnande tillhandahålle afsändaren ett indläm, ningsbevis å blankett liknande. bifogade formulär 2 .
Afsändaren af ett paket må
kunna mot erläggande af den i indlämningslandet gällande rekommendationsafgift få paketet befordradt såsom registreradt ; på begäran erhåller han utan erläggande af någon tillägsafgift ett mottagningsbevis.

NOVEMBER 14, 1905. PARCELS- POST CONVENTION-SWEDEN. DECEMBER 14, 1905.

2895

ARTICLE VI.

ARTIKEL VI.

The addressees of registered articles shall be advised of the arrival
of a package addressed to them, by a notice from the postoffice of destination.
The packages shall be delivered to addressees at the postoffices of address in the country of destination free of charge for postage; but the customs duties properly chargeable thereon , shall be collected on delivery in accordance with the customs regulations of
the country of destination ; and the country of destination may, at
its option , levy and collect from the addressee for interior service and delivery a charge not exceeding five cents in the United States and 20 óre in Sweden , on each single parcel of whatever weight.

Adressaterna till registrerade paket skola af adresspostanstalten skriftligen underrättas om paketens ankomst.
Paketen skola i adresslandet utlämnas till adressaterna å adresspostanstalterna utan afgift; men å paketen hvilande tullafgifter skola vid utlämnandet inkasseras i enlighet med adresslandets tullförfattningar, och det står adresslandet fritt att för paketets behandling inom samme lands postområde och för dess hembäring upptaga hos adressaten en afgift, som icke får öfverstiga i Sverige 20 öre och i Förenta Staterna 5 cents för hvarje paket, oafsedt dess vikt.

Notice to addressee. Collection of duties

ARTICLE VII.

ARTIKEL VII.

The packages shall be considered as a component part of the mails exchanged direct between the United States and Sweden to be dispatched by the country of origin to the other at its cost and by such means as it provides, but must be forwarded, at the option of the dispatching office, either in boxes prepared especially for the purpose or in ordinary mail sacks, to be marked " Parcels-post," and not to contain any other articles of mail matter, and to be securely sealed with wax or otherwise, as may be mutually provided by regulations hereunder.
Each country shall promptly return emptyto the dispatching office by next mail, all such bags and boxes, but subject to other regulations between the two Administrations.
Although articles admitted under this Convention will be transmitted as aforesaid between the exchange offices , they should be so carefully packed as to be safely transmitted in the open mails of either country, both in going to the exchange office in the country

Paketen skola betraktas såsom
en del af de poster, som direkt utväxlas mellan Sverige och Förenta Staterna och som af inlämningslandet på dess bekostnad och med lägenheter, om hvilka inlämningslandet föranstalter befordras till adresslandet, men de måsta försändas, efter den afsändande postanstaltens val, antingen i för andamålet särskildt forfärdigade lådor eller ock i vanliga postsäckar, hvilke skola bära påskriften
" paket-post " samt ej få inneslutta andra slags försendelser och som skola vara på ett betryggande sätt tilslutna antingen genom försegling eller på annat sätt, hvarom må ömsesidigt träffas närmare bestämmelser.
Hvartdera landet skall med
förste post till den afsändande postanstalten återsända tomma alla sådana lådor och postsäckar , så framt ej annorlunda öfverenskommits mellan de båda postförvaltningarna.
Oaktad de enligt detta aftal tillåtna postförsändelser skola befordras mellan utväxlingspostanstalterna på sätt som ofvan nämnts, skola dock paketen vara så sorgfälligt förpackade, att de trygt kunna styckevis befordras met hvartdera landets inrikes post,

Transportation.
Return of bags, etc. Packing

2896

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- SWEDEN. NOVEMBER 14, 1905. DECEMBDR 14, 1905.

Descriptive list. Post, p. 2900.

of origin and to the office of address in the country of destination .
Each dispatch of a parcels-post mail must be accompanied by a descriptive list , in duplicate, of all the packages sent, showing distinctly the list number of each parcel, the name of the sender, the name of the addressee with address of destination, and the declared contents and value ; and must be inclosed in one of the boxes or sacks of such dispatch. [See Form 3 annexed hereto . ]

såväl till utväxlingspostanstalten i inlämningslandet som till adresspostanstalten i adresslandet.
Hvarje paketpost , som afsändes ,
skall atföljas af en i twå exemplar upprättad karta, upptagande samtliga i posten befintliga paket samt innehållande uppgift, för hvarje särskildt paket, à dess löpande nummer, afsändarens namn adressatens namn och adress samt paketinnehållet och dess värde. Denna karta-se bifogade formulär 3skall innesluttas i en af de till posten hörande lådor eller säckar.

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTIKEL VIII.

Receipt of mail.

As soon as the mail shall have

reached the office of destination,

Parcel bill.

that office shall check the contents of the mail.
In the event of the parcel bill

Errors.

not having been received, a substitute should be at once prepared .
Any errors in the entries on the

parcel bill which may be discov-

ered, should, after verification by

a second officer, be corrected and

noted for report to the dispatching

office on a form "Verification cer

tificate," which should be sent in a

special envelope.

Nonreceipt of parcels.

If a parcel advised on the bill be

not received, after the nonreceipt

has been verified by a second officer, the entry on the bill should

be canceled and the fact reported at once.

Damaged parcels. Correct mails.

Should a parcel be received in a damaged or imperfect condition , full particulars should be reported on the same form.
If no verification certificate or note of error be received, a parcelsmail shall be considered as duly delivered, having been found on examination correct in all respects.

Så snart posten ankommit till bestämmelsepostanstalten , skall denna granska postens innehåll .
Medföljer icke någon paketkarta , skall en sådan genast af mottagande postanstalten upprättas.
Om felaktigheter upptäckas hos paketkartan , skola dessa -efter at hafva konstaterats af ännu en tjänsteman- rättas, och skall anmälan om desamma göras till afsändningspostantalten medelst en besvaring, som skal afsändas i särskildt konvolut.
Saknas en på paketkartan uppförd försändelse, skall , efter det förhållandet konstaterats af ännu en tjänesteman, den å kartan om
försändelsen gjorda anteckning utstrykas , och anmälan genast göras .
Mottages ett paket i skadadt eller bristfälligt skik, skall utfärdas besvaring, med angifvande af de närmere omständigheterna.
Erhåller den afsändande post-
anstalten icke någon besvaring eller anmälan om felaktiget , skall paket-posten ansees hafva blifvit vederbörligen emottagen och vid granskning befunnen riktig i alla afseenden .

ARTICLE IX .

ARTIKEL IX.

Failure to deliver.

If the packages cannot be delivered as addressed , or if they are refused, they should be reciprocally returned without charge, directly to the dispatching office of exchange, at the expiration of

Kunna paket icke beställas enligt angifven adress , eller vägra adressaterna att mottaga dem, skola paketen 30 dagar efter framkomsten till adresspostanstalten kostnadsfritt återsändas direkt till

PARCELS -POST CONVENTION- SWEDEN. NOVEMBER 14, 1905. DECEMBER 14, 1905.

2897

thirty days from their receipt at the office of destination, and the
country of origin may collect from the sender, for the return of the parcel, a sum equal to the postage when first mailed ;
Provided, however, that parcels prohibited by Article II and those which do not conform to the con-
ditions as to size, weight and value, prescribed by said Article, shall not be returned to the country of origin, but may be disposed of, without recourse, in accordance with the customs laws and regulations of the country of destination.
When the contents of a parcel
which cannot be delivered are liable to deterioration or corruption, they may be destroyed at once, ifnecessary, or if expedient, sold, without previous notice or judicial formality , for the benefit of the right person, the particulars of each sale being noticed by one post-office to the other.

afsändande utväxlingspostanstalten ; och må inlämningslandet för ett pakets återsändande uppbära af afsändaren ett belopp motsvarande den ursprungliga porto afgiften.
Dock skall paket, som enligt celNso.nreturn of parArtikel II icke må befordras, eller Ante, p. 2892. som icke uppfyller de i sagda Artikel föreskrifna villkor beträffande storlek, vikt och värde, icke återsändas till bestämningslandet, utan må med sådant paket slutgildigt förfaras i enlighet med adresslandets tullförfatningar.
Om innehållet i ett obeställbart abDliesaprotsiaclleso.f perishpaket utgöres af föremål , som lätt kunna forsämras eller skämmas, kunna dessa, om sådant är af nöden, omedelbar t förstöras eller ock, om så synes lämpligt, utan föregåande tillkännagifvande och utan iaktagende af laga formaliteter försäljas till förmån för den som vederbör ; de närmare omständigheterna vid försäljningen skola af den ena postanstalten meddelas den andra.

ARTICLE X.

ARTIKEL X.

The Post-Office Department of either of the contracting countries will not be responsible for the loss or damage of any package; but either country is at liberty to indemnify the sender of any package which may be lost or destroyed on its territory.

Postförvaltningarna i de kontra- foNrolnosrse,septco.nsibility herande länderna äro icke ansvariga för forlust af eller skada å packet; dock står det hvartdera landet fritt att godtgöra afsändaren för ett paket, som må hafva gått förloradt eller skadats inom dess postområde.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTIKEL XI.

Each country shall retain to its own use the whole of the postages , registration and delivery fees, it collects on said packages; consequently, this Convention will give rise to no separate accounts between the two countries.

Hvartdera landet behåller för Postage, etc., to be retained.
egen räkning samtliga för paketen upptagna porto- registrerings - och hembäringsafgifter; och skall följaktligen detta aftal icke gifva anledning till någon särskild afräkning mellan de både länderna.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTIKEL XII.

The Postmaster-General of the United States of America , and the Director- General of Posts of Sweden, shall have authority to jointly make such further regulations of order and. detail as may be found necessary to carry out the present

Svenska Generalpoststyrelsen och Generalpostmästaren i Amerikas Förenta Stater äro berättigade att gemensamt utfärda ytterligare detaljbestämmelser, som efter
hand kunna visa sig vara af nöden för utförandet af detta aftal, äf-

Further regulations.

2898 Ante, p. 2893. Duration etc.
Signatures.
Approval.

NOVEMBER 14, 1905. PARCELS -POST CONVENTION-SWEDEN. DECEMBER 14, 1905.

Convention from time to time ; and
may, by agreement , prescribe conditions for the admission in packages exchanged under this Convention of any of the articles prohibited by Article II .

vensom att, efter öfverenskommelse, besluta rörande de vilkor,
på hvilka föremål, som enligt Artikel II äro uteslutna från postbefordran, må kunna försändas i paket, utväxlade på grund af detta àftal.

ARTICLE XIII.

ARTIKEL XIII.

This Convention shall take effect and operations thereunder shall begin on the first day of February, 1906, and shall continue in force until terminated by mutual agreement, but may be annulled at the desire of either Department, upon six months' previous notice given to the other.
Done in duplicate , and signed at Washington , the 14th day of December, 1905, and at Stockholm the 14th day of November, 1905.

Detta aftal skall träde i kraft
och dess bestämmelser börja tillämpas den 1ste Februari 1906 . Det skall förblifva gällande, intill dess det genom ömsesidig öjverenskommelse varder upphåfdt, dock kan detsamma upphäfvas jämväl på begäran af endera postförvaltningen, efter 6 måneder i förväg hos den andra förvaltningen gjord uppsägning.
Utfärdadt i två exemplar och undertecknadt i Stockholm den 14 November 1905 , samt i Washington den 14 December 1905 .

[Seal of the Post- Office Department of the U. S. ]

GEORGE B. CORTELYOU, Postmaster- General of the United
States of America

[ Sweden seal . ]

E. VON KRUSENSTJERNA.

The foregoing Parcels-Post Convention between the United States

of America and Sweden has been negotiated and concluded with my advice, and consent, and is hereby approved and ratified .
In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed.

[SEAL . ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State

WASHINGTON, December 21, 1905.

NOVEMBER 14, 1905. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- SWEDEN. DECEMBER 14, 1905,

2899

Date Stamp .

FORM NO. 1. A.
Parcels- Post between the United States and Sweden.
FORM OF CUSTOMS DECLARATION

Form 1.
Place to which the parcel is addressed.

Description of parcel: [State whether box, bag, basket,
etc.]

Contents.

Total 'Value. Percent. customs
charges .

Total.

Date of posting:

..19 ..; signature and address of sender

For use of Post-Office only, and to be filled up at the office of exchange: Parcel Bill No.. .....; No. of rates prepaid .. .....; Entry No..

B.

[country of origin. ] Parcels-Post from.

amTohuentismtpoo. rt .du. ty ,aswsheisscehdmubsytabne

officer of customs on contents of paid before the parcel is delivered.

this

parcel

Date Stamp.

C.
[country of origin.] Parcels- Post from.. This parcel has been passed by an officer of customs and must be delivered
FREE OF CHARGE.

Customs Officer.
Date Stamp .

FORM NO. 2. Parcels-Post. A parcel addressed as under has been posted here this day:
Office stamp.

Form 2

This certificate is given to inform the sender of the posting of a parcel, and does not indicate that any liability in respect of such parcel attaches to the Postal Administration.

2900

NOVEMBER 14, 1905. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION-SWEDEN. DECEMBER 14, 1905.

NEon.try orNfautemsber
.prepaid

FORM NO. 3.

Date stamp of dispatching exchange Post-
Office.

[country oforigin.] [country ofdestination.]

Parcelsfrom..

for

Date stamp of receiving
exchange PostOffice.

Parcel Bill No. ...... dated......, 19 .. ; per S. S. ".

Sheet No. ...

Origin of Name of Address of parcel. Declared Declared

parcel.

sender.

contents. value.

Observations.

Totals ...

*When more than one sheet is required for the entry of the parcels sent by the mail , it will be sufficient if the undermentioned particulars are entered on the last sheet of the Parcel Bill.

Total number of parcels sent by the mail [country of destination. ]
to....
Number of boxes or other receptacles forming the mail ..........
Signature of postal official at the dispatch-
ing exchange post-office.

Total weight of mail.. Deduct weight of receptacles...
Net weight of parcels

Signature of postal official at the receiving exchange post-office.

CONVENTION- ROUMANIA. MARCH 18/31 , 1906.

2901

Convention between the United States and Roumania for the reciprocal protection of trade-marks. Signed at Bucharest March 18/31, 1906; ratification advised by the Senate May 4, 1906; ratified by the Presi dent May 10, 1906; ratified by Roumania June 20, 1906; ratifications exchanged at Bucharest June 21, 1906; proclaimed June 25, 1906.

March 18/31, 1906

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION .

Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and Preamble.

His Majesty the King of Roumania providing for the reciprocal protection of trade-marks was concluded and signed by their respective
eighteenth Plenipotentiaries at Bucharest, on the thirty-first day of March, one

thousand nine hundred and six , the original of which Convention,
being in the English and Roumanian languages is word for word as follows :

The United States of America Statele Unite ale Americei i mTarnaidae-maanrdksUinniRtoeud-

and His Majesty the King of Roumania being desirous of securing a complete and effective protection of the manufacturing industry of the citizens and subjects of the two countries, the undersigned , being duly authorized to that effect, have agreed upon the following provisions :

Maiestatea Sa Regele României States. dorind a asigura o proteciune deplin i folositóre industriei manufacturale a cetenilor i supuilor celor dou ri, subsemnaii, autorizai în regul spre acest sfîrit, s'a învoit asupra dispoziiunilor urmtóre :

ARTICLE I

ARTICOLUL I

The citizens and subjects of each of the high contracting parties shall enjoy in the dominions and possessions of the other the same rights as are given to native citizens or subjects in matters relating to trade-marks.

Cetenii i supuii uneia din citRiezceinpsroofcaelarcihgchtosuno-f
înaltele pri contractante se vor try. bucura in Statele i posesiunile celeilalte, în ce priveste proteciunea mrcilor de fabric i de comer, de acelea drepturi ca i naionalii.

ARTICLE II

ARTICOLUL II

In order to secure to their marks the protection stipulated for by the preceding article , American citizens in the Kingdom of Rou-

Spre a asigura mrcilor lor pro- anCdonrfegourlmaitnigonts.o laws teciunea prevzut prin articolul precedent, cetenii american în Regatul României i supuii Ro-

2902 Iffect. Signatures.

CONVENTION- ROUMANIA. MARCH 18/31 , 1906.

mania and Roumanian subjects in the United States of America, must fulfil the formalities prescribed to that effect by the laws and regulations of the country in which the protection is desired .

mân în Statele Unite, vor trebui s îndeplineasc formalitatile prescrise spre acest sfîrit de legile i regulamentele rei în care proteciunea este cutat.

ARTICLE III

ARTICOLUL III

The present Convention shall take effect from the date of its official publication in the two countries and shall remain in force until the expiration of twelve months immediately following a denunciation made by one or the other of the contracting parties.
In witness whereof, the under-

Conveniunea de fa va fi executorie de la chiar data publicrei ei oficiale în cele dou ri i va rmânea în vigóre pîn la expirarea celor dou- spre- zece lun ce vor urma dupe o denunare fcut de una sau de alta din prile contractante .
Spre credina crora, subsem-

signed have signed the present Convention and have thereto affixed their seals .

naii am semnat Conveniunea de fa i a pus pe ea sigiliile lor.

Done in duplicate at Bucharest,

Fcut în îndoit exemplar la

March 18/31 , 1906.

Bucuresci la 18/31 Martie 1906.

J. W. RIDDLE [SEAL]

General J. N. LAHOVARY [SEAL]

Exchange of ratifications.

And whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified on both

parts, and the ratifications of the two Governments were exchanged in

Proclamation.

the City of Bucharest, on the twenty-first day of June, one thousand nine hundred and six ;
Now, therefore, be it known that I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, Presi-

dent of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention

to be inade public to the end that the same and every article and clause

thereof may be fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the · citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington, this twenty- fifth day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of the

Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and

thirtieth.

[ SEAL ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

TREATY - GREAT BRITAIN. APRIL 12, 1905.

2903

Supplementary convention between the United States and Great Britain for the extradition of criminals. Signed at London, April 12, 1905; ratification advised by the Senate December 13, 1905; ratified by the President December 21, 1906 ; ratified by Great Britain November 14, 1906; ratifications exchanged at Washington December 21, 1906; proclaimed February 12, 1907.

April 12, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Supplementary Convention between the United States of America and Great Britain enlarging the list of crimes on account of which extradition may be granted between the two countries was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at London, on the twelfth day of April, one thousand nine hundred and five, the original of which Supplementary Convention , is word for word as follows:
THE President of the United States of America and His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, being desirous of enlarging the list of crimes on account of which extradition may be granted under the Conventions concluded between the United States and Great Britain on the 12th July, 1889, and the 13th December, 1900, with a view to the better administration of justice and the
prevention of crime in their respective territories and jurisdictions , have resolved to conclude a Supplementary Convention for this purpose and have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries, to wit :
The President of the United States, the Honourable Joseph Hodges Choate, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States at the Court of His Britannic Majesty;
And his Britannic Majesty, the Most Honourable Henry Charles Keith Petty- Fitzmaurice, Marquess of Lansdowne, His Majesty's Principal Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs ;
Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, which were found to be in due and proper form, have agreed to and concluded the following Articles :-

Preamble.
Contracting parties. Vol . 26, p 1508. Vol . 32, p 1864. Plenipotentiaries.

ARTICLE I.

The following crimes are added to the list of crimes numbered 1 to 10 in the Ist Article of the said Convention of the 12th July, 1889 , and to the list of crimes numbered 11 to 13 in Article I of the Supplementary Convention concluded between the United States and Great Britain on the 13th December, 1900 , that is to say:
14. Bribery , defined to be the offering, giving or receiving of bribes made criminal by the laws of both countries.
15. Offences, if made criminal by the laws of both countries, against bankruptcy law.
VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -5

Crimes added . Vol. 26, p. 1508. Vol . 32, p. 1864.
Bribery . Bankruptcy.

2904

TREATY- GREAT BRITAIN. APRIL 12, 1905.

ARTICLE II.

Former treaty ap-

plicable.

The present Convention shall be considered as an integral part of

the said Extradition Conventions of the 12th July, 1889, and the 13th

December, 1900, and the Ist Article of the said Convention of the 12th

July, 1889, shall be read as if the lists of crimes therein contained had

Ratifications.

originally comprised the additional crimes specified and numbered 14 and 15 in the Ist Article of the present Convention.
The present Convention shall be ratified , and the ratifications shall

be exchanged either at Washington or London as soon as possible. .It shall come into force ten days after its publication in conformity

Signatures.

with the laws of the High Contracting Parties, and it shall continue and terminate in the same manner as the said Convention of the 12th July, 1889.
In testimony whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed
the present Convention in duplicate, and have thereunto affixed their seals.

Done at London , this 12th day of April , 1905.

[ L. S. ] JOSEPH H. CHOATE [ L. S. ] LANSDOWNE

Ratifications ex- And whereas the said Supplementary Convention has been duly ratichanged.
fied on both parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were

exchanged in the city of Washington, on the twenty-first day of De-

Proclamation.

cember, one thousand nine hundred and six ; Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President

of the United States of America, have caused the said Supplementary

Convention to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed ..

Done at the City of Washington, this twelfth day of February in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven

[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirty- first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President: ELIHU ROor

Secretary of State.

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2905

Feneral act of the international conference at Algeciras and an additional protocol. Signed at Algeciras April 7, 1906; ratification advised by the Senate December 12, 1906; ratified by the President of the United States December 14, 1906; ratification deposited with the Spanish Government December 31, 1906; proclaimed January 22, 1907.

April 7, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.
Whereas a General Act and an Additional Protocol was concluded and signed on April 7, 1906, by the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Spain, France, Great Britain, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal, Russia, and Sweden, the originals of which General Act and Additional Protocol, being in the French language, are word for word as follows :
[Translation . ]

Preamble.

Au nom de Dieu Tout Puissant: Sa Majesté l'Empereur d'Allemagne, Roi de Prusse, au nom de l'Empire Allemand ; Sa Majesté l'Empereur d'Autriche, Roi de Bohême, etc. et Roi Apostolique de Hongrie; Sa Majesté le Roi des Belges ; Sa Majesté le Roi d'Espagne; le Président des Etats- Unis d'Amérique ; le Président de la République Française ; Sa Majesté le Roi du Royaume Uni de la Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande et des territoires britanniques au delà des mers, Empereur des Indes ; Sa Majesté le Roi d'Italie; Sa Majesté le Sultan du Maroc ; Sa Majesté la Reine des Pays -Bas ; Sa Majesté le Roi de Portugal et des Algar ves, etc., etc., etc.; Sa Majesté l'Empereur de toutes les Russies; Sa Majesté le Roi de Suède ;
S'inspirant de l'intérêt qui s'attache à ce que l'ordre, la paix et la prospérité règnent au Maroc, et ayant reconnu que ce but précieux ne saurait être atteint que moyennant l'introduction de réformes basées sur le triple principe

" In the Name of Almighty God. " Contracting powers. His Majesty the Emperor of

Germany , King of Prussia, in the

name of the German Empire; His

Majesty the Emperor of Austria, King of Bohemia, etc. , and Apostolic King of Hungary; His Ma-

jesty the King of the Belgians ; His Majesty the King of Spain; the President of the United States of America ; the President of the

French Republic; His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and of the British Dominions beyond the

Seas, Emperor of India, etc.; His

Majesty the King of Italy ; His Majesty the Sultan of Morocco; Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands; His Majesty the King

of Portugal and of the Algarves, etc. , etc. , etc.; His Majesty the Emperor of All the Russias; His Majesty the King of Sweden:
Inspired by the interest attach-

Reforms in Morocco.

ing itself to the reign of order, peace, and prosperity in Morocco , and recognizing that the attainment thereof can only be effected by means of the introduction of reforms based upon the triple prin-

2906

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7 , 1906 .

Plenipotentiaries.

de la souveraineté et de l'indépen- ciple of the sovereignty and inde-

dance de Sa Majesté le Sultan , de l'intégrité des Ses Etats et de la liberté économique sans aucune

pendence of His Majesty the Sultan, the integrity of his domains , and economic liberty without any

inégalité, ont résolu , sur l'invita- inequality, have resolved , upon tion qui Leur a été adressée par the invitation of His Shereefian

Sa Majesté Chérifienne , de réunir Majesty , to call together a conferune Conférence à Algeciras pour ence at Algeciras for the purpose

arriver à une entente sur les dites of arriving at an understanding

réformes, ainsi que pour examiner upon the said reforms, as well as les moyens de se procurer les res- examining the means for obtain-

sources nécessaires à leur applica- ing the resources necessary for tion, et ont nommé pour Leurs their application, and have ap-

Délégués Plénipotentiaires, savoir:
Sa Majesté l'Empereur d'Alle-

pointed as their delegates plenipotentiary the following :
His Majesty the Emperor of

magne, Roi de Prusse, au nom de l'Empire Allemand :
Le Sieur Joseph de Radowitz ,

Germany, King of Prussia, in the name of the German Empire:
Mr. Joseph de Radowitz, His

Son Ambassadeur Extraordinaire Ambassador Extraordinary and

et Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté Catholique, et
Le Sieur Christian , Comte de Tattenbach, Son Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipoten-

Plenipotentiary to His Catholic Majesty, and
Christian, Count of Tattenbach, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His

tiaire près Sa Majesté Très-Fidèle ; Sa Majesté l'Empereur d'Autri-
che, Roi de Bohême , etc. , et Roi

Very Faithful Majesty. His Majesty the Emperor of
Austria, King of Bohemia, etc. ,

Apostolique de Hongrie : Le Sieur Rodolphe, Comte de
Welsersheimb, Son Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté Catholique, et
Le Sieur Léopold , Comte Bolesta- Koziebrodzki, Son Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire au Maroc ;

and Apostolic King of Hungary : Rudolph, Count of Welser-
sheimb, His Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to His Catholic Majesty, and
Leopold, Count Bolesta - Kozie-
brodzki, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Morocco.

Sa Majesté le Roi des Belges:
Le Sieur Maurice, Baron Joostens, Son Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté Catholique, et
Le Sieur Conrad, Comte de

His Majesty the King of the Belgians:
Maurice , Baron Joostens, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to his Catholic Majesty, and
Conrad, Count of Buisseret

Buisseret- Steenbecque de Blarenghien, Son Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire au Maroc ;

Steenbecque de Blarenghem , His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Morocco .

Sa Majesté le Roi d'Espagne : Don Juan Manuel Sánchez y
Gutiérrez de Castro , Duc de Almodóvar del Río, Son Ministre d'Etat, et

His Majesty the King of Spain : Don Juan Manuel Sanchez y Gutiérrez de Castro , Duke of Almodóvar del Río, His Minister of State, and

Don Juan Pérez-Caballero y

Don Juan Pérez-Caballero y

Ferrer, Son Envoyé Extraordi naire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté le Roi des Belges ;
Le Président des Etats -Unis d'Amérique :

Ferrer, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His Majesty the King of the Belgians .
The' President of the United States of America:

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7 , 1906.

Le Sieur Henry White, Ambas sadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire des Etats- Unis d'Améri-

Mr. Henry White, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of

que près Sa Majesté le Roi d'Italie, et
Le Sieur Samuel R. Gummeré,

America to His Majesty the King of Italy, and
Mr. Samuel R. Gummeré, Envoy

Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire des Etats- Unis d'Amérique au Maroc ;
Le Président de la République

Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Morocco.
The President of the French

Française :

Republic:

Le Sieur Paul Révoil , Ambassa-

Mr. Paul Révoil, Ambassador

deur Extraordinaire et Plénipo- Extraordinary and Plenipoten-

tentiaire de la République Fran- tiary of the French Republic to çaise auprès de la Confédération the Swiss Confederation, and Suisse, et

Le Sieur Eugène Regnault, Mr. Eugène Regnault, Minister

Ministre Plénipotentiaire ;

Plenipotentiary.

Sa Majesté le Roi du Royaume His Majesty the King of the

Uni de la Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande et des territoires britan-
niques au delà des mers, Empereur des Indes :
Sir Arthur Nicolson, Son Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plé-

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas,
Emperor of India: Sir Arthur Nicolson, His Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Pleni-

nipotentiaire près Sa Majesté l'Empereur de toutes les Russies ;
Sa Majesté le Roi d'Italie : Le Sieur Emile, Marquis Vis-

potentiary to His Majesty the Emperor of All the Russias.
His Majesty the King of Italy: Emile, Marquis Visconti Ve-

conti Venosta, Chevalier de l'Ordre de la Très-Sainte Annonciade, et
Le Sieur Giulio Malmusi, Son

nosta, Knight of the Order of the Very Holy Annunciation, and
Mr. Giulio Malmusi, His Envoy

Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire au Maroc;
Sa Majesté le Sultan du Maroc :

Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Morocco.
His Majesty the Sultan of Morocco :

El Hadj Mohamed Ben-el Arbi El Hadj Mohammed Ben-el Arbi

Ettorrés, Son Délégué à Tanger et Son Ambassadeur Extraordinaire ,

Ettorrés , His Delegate at Tangier and Ambassador Extraordinary,

El Hadj Mohamed Ben Abdesselam El Mokri, Son Ministre des Dépenses ,
El Hadj Mohamed Es- Seffar, et Sid Abderrhaman Bennis ;

El Hadj Mohammed Ben Abdesselam El Mokri, His Minister of Expenses ,
El Hadj Mohammed Es- Seffar, and Sid Abderrhaman Bennis.

Sa Majesté la Reine des PaysBas :
Le Sieur Jonkheer Hannibal

Her Majesty the Queen of the Netherlands :
Jonkheer Hannibal Testa, Her

Testa, Son Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté Catholique;

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His Catholic Majesty.

Sa Majesté le Roi de Portugal His Majesty the King of Portuet des Algarves, etc. , etc. , etc.: gal and of the Algarves, etc. , etc.,
etc.:

Le Sieur Antoine, Comte de Anthony, Count of Tovar, His

Tovar, Son Envoyé Extraordi- Envoy Extraordinary and Minister

naire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire Plenipotentiary to His Catholic

près Sa Majesté Catholique, et

Majesty, and

Le Sieur François - Robert, .. Francis Robert, Count of Mar-

Comte de Martens Ferrão, Pair tens Ferrao, Peer of the Kingdom ,

2907

2908

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906 .

du Royaume, Son Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire au Maroc ;

His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Morocco.

Sa Majesté l'Empereur de toutes His Majesty the Emperor of All

les Russies :

the Russias:

Le Sieur Arthur, Comte Cas- Arthur, Count Cassini, His Am-

sini, Son Ambassadeur Extraor- bassador Extraordinary and Pleni-

Objects of ence.

dinaire et Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté Catholique, et
Le Sieur Basile Bacheracht, Son Ministre au Maroc ;
Sa Majesté le Roi de Suède : Le Sieur Robert Sager, Son Envoyé Extraordinaire et Ministre Plénipotentiaire près Sa Majesté Catholique et près Sa Majesté Très Fidele .
Lesquels, munis de pleins pouvoirs qui ont été trouvés en bonne et due forme, ont, conformément
au programme sur lequel Sa Ma jesté Chérifienne et les Puissances sont tombées d'accord, successivement discuté et adopté: confer- I. Une Déclaration relative à
l'organisation de la police; II. Un Règlement concernant
la surveillance et la répression de le contrebande des armes ;
III. Un Acte de concession
d'une Banque d'Etat marocaine ; IV. Une Déclaration concernant

potentiary to His Catholic Majesty, and
Mr. Basile de Bacheracht, His Minister to Morocco.
His Majesty the King of Sweden: Mr. Robert Sager, His Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to His Catholic Majesty and His Very Faithful Majesty.
Who, furnished with full powers, which were found in good and due form, have , in conformity with the programme upon which His Shereefian Majesty and the powers have agreed , successively discussed and adopted:
I. A declaration relative to the
organization of the police. II. A regulation concerning the
detection and repression of the contraband of arms. ·
III. An act of concession for a Moroccan State Bank.
IV. A declaration concerning a

3

un meilleur rendement des impôts et la création de nouveaux revenus ;
V. Un Règlement sur les Douanes de l'Empire et la répression de la fraude et de la contrebande;
VI. Une Déclaration relative

better return of taxes, and the creation of new revenues.
V. A regulation concerning the customs of the Empire and the repression of fraud and smuggling.
VI. A declaration relative to

aux Services Publics et aux Tra- public services and public works.

vaux Publics ;

And, having decided that these

et, ayant jugé que ces différents different documents might usefully

documents pourraient être utile- be coordinated in a single instru-



ment coordonnés en un seul ins- ment, they have united them in a

#

trument, les ont réunis en un general act composed of the fol-

Acte général composé des articles lowing articles: suivants :

CHAPITRE I

CHAPTER I.

Déclaration relative à l'organisa- Declaration relative to the organi-

tion de la police

zation ofthe police.

Policeorganization. ARTICLE premier. La Confé-

rence, appelée par Sa Majesté le

Declaration..

Sultan à se prononcer sur les mesures nécessaires pour organiser

la police, déclare que les disposi-

tions à prendre sont les suivantes.

Sovereign authority of Sultan, etc.

ART. 2. La police sera placée

sous l'autorité souveraine de Sa

Maiesté le Sultan. Elle sera re-

ARTICLE 1. The conference sum- .. moned by His Majesty the Sultan to pronounce on the measures necessary to organize the police declares that the following provisions should be made:
ART. 2. The police shall be under the sovereign authority of His Majesty the Sultan . It shall be

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2909

crutée par le Manzen parmi les recruited by the Maghzen from musulmans marocains, commandée Moorish Mohammedans, com-

par des Caïds marocains et répartie dans les huit ports ouverts au commerce .
ART. 3. Pour venir en aide au
Sultan dans l'organisation de cette

manded by Moorish Kaids , and
distributed in the eight ports open to commerce.
ART. 3. In order to aid the Sul- Instructors, to be Spanish and French
tan in the organization of this officers.

police, des officiers et sous-officiers police, Spanish officers and noninstructeurs espagnols , des offi- commissioned officers as instructciers et sous-officiers instructeurs .ors , and French officers and non-

français, seront mis à Sa disposition par leurs Gouvernements respectifs, qui soumettront leur désignation à l'agrément de Sa Majesté Chérifienne. Un contrat passé entre le Makhzen et les instructeurs, en conformité du réglement prévu à l'article 4, détermi-

commissioned officers as instructors, shall be placed at His disposal by their respective Governments, which shall submit their designation to the approval of His Shereefian Majesty. A contract drawn between the Maghzen and these instructors, in conformity to the

nera les conditions de leur engage- regulation provided by article 4, ment et fixera leur solde qui ne shall determine the conditions of

pourra pas être inférieure au double de la solde correspondante au grade de chaque officier ou sous-officier. Il leur sera alloué, en outre, une indemnité de rési-

their engagement and fix their pay, which must not be less than double of the pay corresponding to the rank of each officer or noncommissioned officer. In addition

dence variable suivant les localités. Des logements convenables seront mis à leur disposition par le Makhzen qui fournira également les montures et les fourrages nécessaires.
Les Gouvernements auxquels ressortissent les instructeurs se

they will be allowed living expenses, varying according to their residences. Proper lodgings will be placed at their disposal by the Maghzen, which will likewise supply them with their horses and the necessary fodder.
The Governments having juris diction over the instructors reserve

Right of recall

réservent le droit de les rappeler et de les remplacer par d'autres, agréés et engagés dans les mêmes conditions .
ART. 4. Ces officiers et sous-

the right to recall them and replace them by others, accepted and engaged under the same conditions.
ART. 4. These officers and non-

Term of service.

officiers prêteront, pour une durée de cinq années à dater de la ratification de l'Acte de la Conférence,

commissioned officers for a period of five years, to date from the ratification of the act of the conference,

leur concours à l'organisation des corps de police chérifiens. Ils assureront l'instruction et la discipline conformément au règlement qui sera établi sur la matière ; ils veilleront également à ce que les
hommes enrôlés possèdent l'aptitude au service militaire. D'une

shall give their service to the organization of a body of Shereefian police. They shall assure instruction and discipline in conformity with the regulations to be drawn up in respect thereto. They shall also see that the men enlisted are fit for military service . In a gen-

Duties.

façon générale, ils devront surveillerl'administration des troupes et contrôler le paiement de la solde qui sera effectué par l'Amin, assisté de l'officier instructeur comptable. Ils prêteront aux autorités marocaines, investies du commandement de ces corps, leur con-

eral way they shall supervise the administration of the soldiers and superintend the payment of their salary, which shall be effected by the "Amin, " assisted by the accounting officer instructor. They shall extend to the Moorish authorities invested with the com-

cours technique pour l'exercice de ce commandement.

mand of these bodies their technical aid in the exercise of the said com-
mand .

2910

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Regulations.

Les dispositions règlementaires propres à assurer le recrutement, la discipline, l'instruction et l'administration des corps de police , seront arrêtées d'un commun accord entre le Ministre de la Guerre

The regulations 7 to assure the recruital, discipline, instruction , and administration of the bodies of police shall be established by mutual agreement between the Shereefian Minister of War or his dele-

chérifien ou son délégué, l'inspec-

teur prévu à l'article 7, l'instruc-

teur français et l'instructeur es-

pagnol les plus élevés en grade.

Le règlement devra être soumis

au Corps Diplomatique à Tanger

qui formulera son avis dans le délai d'un mois. Passé ce délai,

le règlement sera mis en applica-

tion .

Number and dispo-

sition of force.

ART. 5. L'effectif total des

gate, the inspector provided by article 7, and the highest ranking French and Spanish instructors.
The regulations shall be submitted to the Diplomatic Body at Tangier, which will formulate its opinion within a month's time. After that period the regulations shall be enforced.
ART. 5. The total strength of

troupes de police ne devra pas dépasser deux mille cinq cents hommes ni être inférieur à deux mille. Il sera réparti suivant
l'importance des ports par groupes variant de cent cinquante à six cents hommes. Le nombre des officiers espagnols et français sera

the police shall not be more than 2,500 men, nor less than 2,000. It shall be distributed , according to the importance of the ports, in groups varying between 150 and 600 men . The number of Spanish and French officers shall be between sixteen and twenty ; of

de seize à vingt; celui des sous-

officiers espagnols et français , de trente à quarante. State Bank to ad- ART. 6. Les fonds, nécessaires vance expense fund. à l'entretien et au paiement de la

solde des troupes et des officiers

et sous-officiersinstructeurs, seront

avancés au Trésor chérifien par la

Banque d'Etat, dans les limites du

Limit.

budget annuel attribué à la police qui ne devra pas dépasser deux

millions et demi de pesetas pour

un effectif de deux mille cinq cents

hommes.

Inspection by Swiss officer.

ART. 7. Le fonctionnement de

Spanish and French noncommissioned officers, between thirty and forty .
ART. 6. The funds necessary to
maintain and pay soldiers and officers and noncommissioned officer instructors shall be advanced by the State Bank to the Shereefian Treasury within the limits of the annual budget assigned to the police, which shall not exceed two million and a half pesetas for an effective strength of two thousand five hundred men.
ART. 7. During the same period

la police sera, pendant la même

période de cinq années, l'objet

d'une inspection générale qui sera

confiée par Sa Majesté Chérifienne

à un officier supérieur de l'armée

suisse dont le choix sera proposé

Rank dence.

à Son agrément par le Gouverne-
ment fédéral suisse.
and .resiCet officier prendra le titre d'In-

specteur général et aura sa résidence à Tanger.

Inspection and re- Il inspectera, au moins une fois ports.
par an, les divers corps de police

of five years a general inspection shall be made into the working of the police. Such inspection shall be intrusted by His Shereefian Majesty to a superior officer of the Swiss army, who will be submitted to His approval by the Swiss Federal Government. This officer
will be styled Inspector-General and reside at Tangier.
He shall inspect at least once a year the different bodies of the

et, à la suite de ces inspections, il établira un rapport qu'il adressera au Makhzen .
En dehors des rapports régu-

police, and after such inspection he shall draw up a report which he will address to the Maghzen.
In addition to such regular re-

liers, il pourra, s'il le juge nécessaire, établir des rapports spéciaux
sur toute question concernant le fonctionnement de la police.

ports, he will, if he regards it as necessary, draw up special reports with reference to the working of the police.

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2911

Sans intervenir directement dans le commandement ou l'instruction , l'Inspecteur général se rendra compte des résultats obtenus par la police chérifienne au point de vue du maintien de l'ordre et de la sécurité dans les localités où cette police sera installée .
ART. 8. Les rapports et communications , faits au Makhzen par l'Inspecteur général au sujet de sa mission, seront, en même temps, remis en copie au Doyen du Corps Diplomatique à Tanger, afin que le Corps Diplomatique soit mis à même de constater que la police chérifienne fonctionne conformément aux décisions prises par la Conférence et de surveiller si elle garantit, d'une manière efficace et conforme aux traités , la sécurité des personnes et des biens des ressortissants étrangers, ainsi que celle des transactions commerciales.
ART. 9. En cas de réclamations

Without directly intervening . either in the command or the instruction, the Inspector- General will ascertain the results obtained by the Shereefian police, as regards the maintenance of order and security in the places where this police shall have been established.
ART. 8. A copy of the reports maRteipcorBtosdyt. o Diploand communications made to the Maghzen by the Inspector- General, with reference to his mission, shall at the same time be transmitted to the Dean of the Diplomatic Body at Tangier, in order that the Diplomatic Body be enabled to satisfy itself that the Shereefian police acts in conformity to the decisions taken by the conference, and to see whether it guarantees effectively, and in conformity with the treaties, the security of person and property of foreign citizens, subjects, and protégés, as well as that of commercial transactions.
ART. 9. In the case of com- Complaints.

dont le Corps Diplomatique serait saisi par la Légation intéressée, le Corps Diplomatique pourra, en

plaints filed with the Diplomatic Body by the legation concerned, the Diplomatic Body may, upon

avisant le Représentant du Sultan, demander à l'Inspecteur général de faire une enquête et d'établir

notice given to the representative of the Sultan, direct the InspectorGeneral to investigate and report

un rapport sur ces réclamations, à toutes fins utiles.
ART. 10. L'Inspecteur général
recevra un traitement annuel de vingt-cinq mille francs. Il lui

for all available purposes in the matter of such complaints.
ART. 10. The Inspector-General shall receive an annual salary of 25,000 francs. In addition , he

Salary, etc.

sera alloué, en outre , une indemnité de six mille francs pour frais de tournées. Le Makhzen mettra à sa disposition une maison convenable et pourvoira à l'entretien de ses chevaux.
ART. 11. Les conditions matérielles de son engagement et de son

will be allowed 6,000 francs for the expenses of his tours. The

Maghzen will place at his disposal a suitable residence and will look

after the maintenance of his

horses.

ART. 11.

The

material

condi-

Service etc.

tions of his engagement and of

contract,

installation, prévues à l'article 10 , feront l'objet d'un contrat passé entre lui et le Makhzen. Ce contrat sera communiqué en copie au Corps Diplomatique.
ART 12. Le cadre des instructeurs de la police chérifienne (officiers et sous-officiers) sera espa-

his establishment, as provided
by article 10, shall be the subject of a contract drawn up between him and the Maghzen.
A copy of this contract shall be communicated to the Diplomatic Body .
ART. 12. The staff of instructors ,inNstartuicotnoarlsi.ty of staff of the Shereefian police (officers and noncommissioned officers )

gnol à Tétouan, mixte à Tanger, espagnol à Larache, français à Rabat, mixte à Casablanca, et français dans les trois autres ports.

shall be Spanish at Tetuan , mixed at Tangier, Spanish at Larache, French at Rabat, mixed at Casablanca, and French in the other three ports.

2912

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

CHAPITRE II

CHAPTER II.

Contrabandofarms. Règlement concernant la survei lance et la répression de la contrebande des armes

Regulations concerning the detection and repression of the contraband of arms.

Importation, etc., forbidden.

ART. 13. Sont prohibés dans

toute l'étendue de l'Empire Chéri-

fien, sauf dans les cas spécifiés aux

articles 14 et 15, l'importation et

le commerce des armes de guerre,

pièces d'armes, munitions chargées

ou non chargées de toutes espèces,

poudres, salpêtre, fulmi-coton , ni-

tro-glycérine et toutes compositions destinées exclusivement à la

fabrication des munitions.

Explosives used in

public works, etc.

ART. 14. Les explosifs néces-

saires à l'industrie et aux travaux

publics pourront néanmoins être

introduits. Un règlement, pris dans les formes indiquées à l'article 18, déterminera les conditions

dans lesquelles sera effectuée leur

importation.

Arms , etc. , for

troops.

ART. 15. Les armes, pièces d'ar-

mes et munitions, destinées aux

troupes de Sa Majesté Chérifienne ,

Formalities.

seront admises après l'accomplissement des formalités suivantes :
Une déclaration , signée par le

Ministre de la Guerre marocain,

énonçant le nombre et l'espèce des fournitures de ce genre commandées à l'industrie étrangère, devra être présentée à la Légation du pays d'origine qui y apposera son visa .

Le dédouanement des caisses et

colis contenant les armes et munitions, livrées en exécution de la commande du Gouvernement ma-

rocain, sera opéré sur la production :

1.º de la déclaration spécifiée ci -dessus .
2. ° du connaissement indiquant le nombre, le poids des colis , le nombre et l'espèce des armes et munitions qu'ils contiennent. Ce document devra être visé par la Légation du pays d'origine qui marquera au verso les quantités successives précédemment dédouanées. Le visa sera refusé à partir du moment où la commande

aura été intégralement livrée.

Sporting arms.

ART. 16. L'importation des armes de chasse et de luxe, pièces

ART. 13. Throughout the Shereefian Empire, except in the cases specified by articles 14 and 15 , the importation and sale is forbidden of arms of war, parts of guns, ammunition of any nature, loaded or unloaded, powder, saltpeter , gun cotton, nitroglycerin, and all compositions destined exclusively for the manufacture of ammunition .
ART. 14. Such explosives as are necessary for industry and public works may, however, be introduced. A regulation drawn up in the manner indicated by article 18 shall determine the conditions under which their importation may be effected .
ART. 15. The arms, parts of guns, and ammunition intended for the troops of His Shereefian Majesty will be admitted after the fulfillment of the following formalities :
A declaration signed by the Moorish Minister of War, describing the number and nature of such articles ordered abroad , must be presented to the legation of the country of their origin , whose visa shall be affixed thereto .
The passage through the customs of the cases and packages containing the arms and munitions, delivered at the order of the Moorish Government, shall be effected upon the presentation :
1. Of the aforesaid declaration .
2. Of the invoice indicating the number and weight of the packages and the number and kind of the arms and munitions contained therein. This document must be visaed by the legation of the coun try of their origin , which will mark on the back the successive amounts previously passed through the customs. This visa will be refused when the order shall have been entirely delivered .
ART. 16. The importation of sporting and high-priced arms ,

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2913

d'armes, cartouches chargées et parts. of guns, cartridges loaded non chargées, est également inter- and unloaded, is likewise forbid-

dite. Elle pourra, toutefois, être den. It may none the less be

autorisée :

authorized-

1.° pour les besoins strictement personnels de l'importateur,
2.° pour l'approvisionnement des magasins d'armes autorisés conformément à l'article 18.
ART. 17. Les armes et muni-
tions de chasse ou de luxe seront admises pour les besoins stricte

1º. For the strictly personal requirements of the importer;
2º. For supplying the gunshops authorized by article 18.
ART. 17. Sporting and high- usPee. rmits for personal priced arms and the ammunition for the same will be admitted for

ment personnels de l'importateur, the strictly personal requirements

sur la production d'un permis dé- of the importer on presentation of livré par le Représentant du Makh- a permit issued by the representa-

zen à Tanger. Si l'importateur est étranger, le permis ne sera établi que sur la demande de la Légation dont il relève.
En ce qui concerne les munitions de chasse, chaque permis portera au maximum sur mille cartouches ou les fournitures nécessaires à la fabrication de mille cartouches .

tive of the Maghzen at Tangier. If the importer is a foreigner, this permit will only be granted at the request of his legation .
With respect to ammunition for sporting purposes, each permit shall allow a maximum of a thousand cartridges or the supplies necessary for the manufacture of a thousand cartridges. The per-

Le permis ne sera donné qu'à des personnes n'ayant encouru aucune condamnation correctionnelle .
ART. 18. Le commerce des

mit shall only be issued to those who have never been sentenced for any offense.
ART. 18. The trade in sporting inRsepgourltaitnigoanromfst. rade

armes de chasse et de luxe, non rayées, de fabrication étrangère, ainsi que des munitions qui s'y rapportent, sera règlementé, dès que les circonstances le permettront, par décision chérifienne, prise conformément à l'avis du Corps Diplomatique à Tanger, statuant à la majorité des voix. Il en sera de même des décisions, ayant pour but de suspendre ou de restreindre l'exercice de ce commerce .
Seules, les personnes ayant obtenu une licence spéciale et temporaire du Gouvernement marocain, seront admises à ouvrir et exploiter des débits d'armes et de munitions de chasse. Cette licence ne sera accordée que sur demande écrite de l'intéressé, appuyée d'un avis favorable de la Légation dont il relève.

and high-priced arms, not rifled , of foreign manufacture, as well as of the ammunition appertaining to the same, shall be regulated, as soon as circumstances permit, by a Shereefian decision made in conformity with the advice of a majority of the Diplomatic Body at Tangier. This shall be the case, as well, with decisions intended to suspend or restrict the exercise of such trade.
Only such persons as have secured a special and temporary license from the Moorish Govern-
ment shall be allowed to open and operate retail shops for the sale of sporting guns and ammunition. This license shall only be given at the written request of the applicant , indorsed by his legation.

Special license.

Des règlements pris dans la forme indiquée au paragraphe premier de cet article détermineront le nombre des débits pouvant être ouverts à Tanger et, éventuellement, dans les ports qui seront ultérieurement désignés.

Regulations drawn up in the manner indicated by the first paragraph of this article shall determine the number of such retail shops which may be opened at Tangier and , if occasion arises, in the ports that may be later designated .

Regulations.

2914

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Ils fixeront les formalités imposées
à l'importation des explosifs à l'usage de l'industrie et des travaux
publics , des armes et munitions destinées à l'approvisionnement des débits , ainsi que les quantités maxima qui pourront être conservées en dépôt. Withdrawal of li- En cas d'infractions aux presense. criptions réglementaires, la licence pourra être retirée à titre
temporaire ou à titre définitif, sans préjudice des autres peines encourues par les délinquants. Punishment for il- ART. 19. Toute introduction où egal importation. tentative d'introduction de mar-
chandises prohibées donnera lieu

They shall fix the formalities to be imposed on the importation of explosives intended for industry and public works, of arms and ammunition intended to supply such shops, as well as the maximum quantity of stock that can be kept.
In case of the violation of the
regulating ordinances, the license may be temporarily or permanently withdrawn without prejudice to other penalties incurred by the offenders.
ART. 19. Every introduction of, or attempt to introduce, the prohibited merchandise shall make it

à leur confiscation et, en outre, liable to confiscation, and further

At open ports.

aux peines et amendes ci-dessous , qui seront prononcées par la juridiction compétente.
ART. 20. L'introduction , ou ten-

to the punishments and fines mentioned below, which shall be pronounced by the competent jurisdiction .
ART. 20. The introduction or at-

tative d'introduction, par un port tempt to introduce in a port open

ouvert au commerce ou par un to commerce, or through a custom-

bureau de douane, sera punie :

house, shall be punished:

1

1. D'une amende de cinq cents 1º. By a fine of from 500 to

à deux mille pesetas et d'une 2,000 pesetas and an additional fine

amende supplémentaire égale à equal to three times the value of

trois fois la valeur de la marchan- the imported merchandise ; dise importée;

2. D'un emprisonnement de
cinq jours à un an ; ou de l'une des
deux pénalités seulement. Outside of open ART. 21. L'introduction , ou tenports.
tative d'introduction , en dehors d'un port ouvert au commerce ou

2º. By imprisonment of from five days to a year, or else by only one of these two punishments .
ART. 21. The introduction or
attempt to introduce outside a port open to commerce or a custom-

d'un bureau de douane, sera punie : house shall be punished :

1. D'une amende de mille à cinq

1º. By a fine of from 1,000 to

Fraudulent etc.

mille pesetas et d'une amende supplémentaire, égale à trois fois la valeur de la marchandise importée ;
2. D'un emprisonnement de trois mois à deux ans ; ou de l'une des deux pénalités seulement .
sales, ART. 22. La vente frauduleuse, le recel et le colportage des mar-

5,000 pesetas and an additional fine equal to three times the value of the imported merchandise ;
2º. By imprisonment of from three months to two years , or else by only one of these two punishments .
ART. 22. The fraudulent sale, the receiving and peddling, of

chandises prohibées par le présent
règlement seront punis des peines édictées à l'article 20.

Punishment of ac-

complices.

ART. 23. Les complices des dé-

lits prévus aux articles 20, 21 et 22,

merchandise prohibited by the present regulations shall be punished according to the penalties specified in article 20.
ART. 23. The accomplices in the offenses set forth in articles 20 , 21 ,

seront passibles des mêmes peines que les auteurs principaux. Les éléments caractérisant la complicité seront appréciés d'après la législation du tribunal saisi .

and 22 shall be liable to the same penalties as the principals. The elements determining complicity shall be adjudged according to the laws of the court in charge of the case .

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2915

ART. 24. Quand il y aura des ART. 24. When there is good peIcntsepdecvetsisoenlsoaft ospuesnindices sérieux, faisant soupçonner reason to suppose that a vessel ports.

qu'un navire mouillé dans un port ouvert au commerce transporte en vue de leur introduction au
Maroc des armes, des munitions ou d'autres marchandises prohibées, les agents de la douane chérifienne devront signaler ces indices

anchored in a port open to commerce carries guns, ammunition, or other prohibited merchandise, with a view of introducing the same into Morocco, the officers of the Shereefian customs shall so inform the competent consular au-

à l'autorité consulaire compétente afin que celle- ci procède, avec l'assistance d'un délégué de la douane chérifienne, aux enquêtes, vérifications ou visites qu'elle jugera nécessaires.
ART. 25. Dans le cas d'intro-

thority, in order that the latter may carry out, in company with a delegate of the Shereefian cus-
toms, such investigations, verifications, or searches as may be judged necessary .
ART. 25. In the case of the in-

At outside ports.

duction ou de tentative d'introduction par mer de marchandises prohibées, en dehors d'un port ouvert au commerce, la douane marocaine

troduction or the attempted introduction by sea of prohibited merchandise outside of a port open to commerce, the Moorish customs

pourra amener le navire au port le plus proche pour être remis à l'autorité consulaire, laquelle pourra le saisir et maintenir la saisie jusqu'au paiement des amendes prononcées. Toutefois, la saisie du navire devra être levée,

authorities may bring the vessel to the nearest port, to be turned over to the consular authority, who shall have the right to seize it and continue such seizure until payment of the fines decreed . The vessel may, however, be re-

Seizure.

en tout état de l'instance, en tant leased at any period of the trial,

que cette mesure n'entravera pas l'instruction judiciaire, sur consignation du montant maximum de l'amende entre les mains de l'autorité consulaire ou sous cau-

provided that the judicial procedings shall not be impeded thereby , on the deposit made with the consular authority of the maximum of the fine , or else under re-

tion solvable de la payer, acceptée sponsible bail accepted by the cus-

par la douane.

toms.

ART. 26. Le Makhzen conser- ART. 26. The Maghzen may re- caDtiesdpomsearlchoafndcioshefi. s-

vera les marchandises confisquées, soit pour son propre usage, si elles peuvent lui servir, à condition que les sujets de l'Empire ne puissent s'en procurer, soit pour les faire vendre en pays étranger.
Les moyens de transport à terre pourront être confisqués et seront vendus au profit du Trésor chérifien .
ART. 27. La vente des armes
réformées par le Gouvernement marocain sera prohibée dans toute l'étendue de l'Empire Chérifien.
ART. 28. Des primes, à prélever sur le montant des amendes prononcées, seront attribuées aux in-

tain the confiscated merchandise either for its own use , if able to
utilize it, on condition that the
subjects of the Empire shall not be able to get possession of it, or it shall dispose of it abroad. 1
The conveyances of the same on
shore may be confiscated and shall
be sold for the profit of the Shereefian Treasury .
ART. 27. The sale of arms con- Sale of condemned arms forbidden.
demned by the Moorish Govern-
ment shall be prohibted through-
out the Shereefian Empire. ART. 28. Rewards taken out of Payment of reward to informer, etc.
the amount of the fines levied are to be given to the informants who

dicateurs qui auront amené la découverte des marchandises prohibées et aux agents qui en auront opéré la saisie: ces primes seront ainsi attribuées après déduction, s'il y a lieu, des frais du procès, un tiers à répartir par la douane

have been instrumental in discovering forbidden merchandise and to the agents who have effected its seizure. Such rewards shall be
assigned after deducting, if necessary, the costs of the trial, onethird to be distributed by the cus-

2916

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

entre les indicateurs , un tiers aux agents ayant saisi la marchandise , et un tiers au Trésor marocain.
Distribution of fines. Si la saisie a été opérée sans l'in-
tervention d'un indicateur, la moitié des amendes sera atribuée aux

toms among the informants, onethird to the officers who seized the merchandise, and one -third to the Moroccan Treasury.
If the seizure has been effected
without the intervention of an informer one-half of the fines shall

agents saisissants et l'autre moitié au Trésor chérifien .
Notice to diplomat- ART. 29. Les autorités douaic, etc. , agents.
nières marocaines devront signaler

go to the officer making the seizure and the other half to the Shereefian Treasury.
ART. 29. The Moorish customs
authorities shall notify directly the

directement aux agents diploma- diplomatic or consular agents of

tiques ou consulaires les infractions au présent règlement commises par leurs ressortissants, afin

any violations of this regulation , committed by those under their jurisdiction , in order that the same

que ceux-ci soient poursuivis devant la juridiction compétente.
Les mêmes infractions, com-

may be prosecuted before the proper jurisdiction .
Similar violations committed by

mises par des sujets marocains,

seront déférées directement par la douane à l'autorité chérifienne.

Un délégué de la douane sera

chargé de suivre la procédure des

affaires pendantes devant les di-

verses juridictions.

Enforcementof regulations

ART. 30. Dans la région fron-

French frontier. tière de l'Algérie, l'application du

Moorish subjects shall be submitted directly by the customs to the Shereefian authority.
A delegate of the customs shall
be assigned to follow the procedure of cases pending before the different jurisdictions.
ART. 30. In the region bordering on Algeria, the enforcement

Spanish frontier.

règlement sur la contrebande des armes restera l'affaire exclusive de la France et du Maroc.
De même, l'application du règlement sur la contrebande des armes dans le Riff et, en général dans les régions frontières des Possessions

of the regulations on the contraband of arms shall be the exclusive concern of France and Morocco .
Similarly, the enforement of the regulation on the contraband of arms in the Riff and in general in the regions bordering on the Span-.

espagnoles, restera l'affaire exclusive de l'Espagne et du Maroc.

ish possessions shall be the exclusive concern of Spain and Morocco .

State Bank.

CHAPITRE III

CHAPTER III.

Acte de concession d'une Banque Act ofconcessionfor a State Bank. d Etat

Name. Powers, etc.

ART. 81. Une Banque sera instituée au Maroc sous le nom de
" Banque d'Etat du Maroc " pour exercer les droits ci-après spécifiés dont la concession lui est accordée par Sa Majesté le Sultan , pour une durée de quarante années à partir de la ratification du présent Acte.
ART. 32. La Banque , qui pourra exécuter toutes les opérations rentrant dans les attributions d'une banque, aura le privilège exclusif d'émettre des billets au porteur, remboursables à présentation, ayant force libératoire dans les

ART. 31. A bank shall be established in Morocco under the name
of the " State Bank of Morocco," to exercise the following specified rights, which are granted to it by His Majesty the Sultan for a period of forty years, to date from the ratification of this act.
ART. 32. The Bank, which will
have power to carry on all transactions entering into the operations of a bank, shall have the exclusive privilege of issuing notes to bearer, payable on presentation and receivable for public

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2917

caisses publiques de l'Empire.marocain.
La Banque maintiendra, pour le

dues throughout the Moorish Empire.
The Bank shall maintain for a

Cash reserve.

terme de deux ans à compter de la date de son entrée en fonctions, une encaisse au moins égale à la moitié de ses billets en circulation, et au moins égale au tiers après cette période de deux ans révolue. Cette encaisse sera constituée pour au moins un tiers en or ou monnaie or.
ART. 33. La Banque remplira, à l'exclusion de toute autre banque ou établissement de crédit, les fonctions de trésorier-payeur de l'Empire. A cet effet, le Gouvernement marocain prendra les mesures nécessaires pour faire verser dans les caisses de la Banque le produit des revenus des douanes, à l'exclusion de la partie affectée au service de l'Emprunt 1904 et des autres revenus qu'il désignera.
Quant au produit de la taxe spéciale créée en vue de l'accomplissement de certains travaux publics, le Gouvernement marocain devra le faire verser à la Banque , ainsi que les revenus qu'il
pourrait ultérieurement affecter à la garantie de ses emprunts, la Banque étant spécialement chargée d'en assurer le service, à l'exception toutefois de l'Emprunt 1904 qui se trouve régi par un Contrat spécial.
ART. 34. La Banque sera l'agent
financier du Gouvernement, tant au dedans qu'au dehors de l'Empire, sans préjudice du droit pour le Gouvernement de s'adresser à d'autres maisons de banque ou établissements de crédit pour ses emprunts publics. Toutefois, pour les dits emprunts, la Banque jouira d'un droit de préférence, à conditions égales , sur toute maison de banque ou établissement de crédit.
Mais, pour les Bons du Trésor et autres effets de trésorerie à

period of two years, to date from its going into operation, cash on hand at least equal to half its notes in circulation, and equal to at least one-third after the expiration of said period of two years. At least one- third of such cash on hand is to be gold bullion or gold coin.
Government deART. 33. The Bank shall , to the pository and disburs
ing treasurer. exclusion of every other bank or establishment of credit, discharge the duty of disbursing treasurer
of the Empire. To this end the Moorish Government shall take all necessary measures to deposit in the Bank the proceeds of the customs revenues, exclusive of the part thereof applied to the loan of 1904, and such other revenues as it may designate.
With reference to the special woFruknsd. s for public tax established in order to carry
out certain public works, the Moorish Government must have
the same deposited in the Bank, as well as the revenues it may làter pledge for its loans , the Bank being especially charged with the payments thereon, except, however, in the case of the loan of 1904, which is governed by special contract .

ART. 34.

The Bank shall be the

Financial agent of the Government.

financial agent of the Government both within and without the Em-

pire, without prejudice to the

Government's right to apply to other banking houses or establish-

ments of credit for its public loans. The Bank, however, shall

enjoy, in regard to such loans , a

right of preference, other condi-

tions being equal, 'over any bank-

ing or credit establishment.

For Treasury notes

or

other

Negotiation notes.

of

short-terin notes which the Moor-

court terme que le Gouvernement marocain voudrait négocier, sans en faire l'objet d'une émission pu-
blique, la Banque sera chargée , à l'exclusion de tout autre établissement, d'en faire la négociation, soit au Maroc, soit à l'étranger, pour le compte du Gouvernement marocain .

ish Government may wish to negotiate without making it a public issue, the Bank shall, however, be charged, to the exclusion of every other establishment, with negotiating the same for the account of the Moorish Government, either in Morocco or abroad .

2918

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO . APRIL 7 , 1906.

Advances.

ART. 35. A valoir sur les ren- ART. 35. The Bank shall make

trées du Trésor, la Banque fera advances to the Moroccan Govern-

au Gouvernement marocain des ment on account current up to a avances en compte-courant jus- million francs, chargeable against

Credit account.

qu'à concurrence d'un million de francs.
La Banque ouvrira, en outre, au

Treasury receipts. The Bank shall likewise open a

Gouvernement, pour une durée de credit account for the Governdix ans à partir de sa constitution, ment for the period of ten years,

Interest, etc.

un crédit qui ne pourra pas dépasser les deux tiers de son capital initial.
Ce crédit sera réparti sur plu-

to date from its establishment, such account not to exceed twothirds of its initial capital.
This credit account shall be dis-

sieurs années et employé en premier lieu aux dépenses d'installation et d'entretien des corps de

tributed over several years and employed primarily for the expenses of establishing and main-

police organisés conformément aux taining the bodies of police,

décisions prises par la Conférence, organized in conformity to the

I

et subsidiairement aux dépenses decisions adopted by the confer-

##

de travaux d'intérêt général qui ence, and secondarily for the ex-

ne seraient pas imputées sur le penses of such works of public

fonds spécial prévu à l'article interest as might not be charged

suivant.

to the special fund as provided

Maximum rate.

for by the following article : Le taux de ces deux avances sera The maximum rate for these

au maximum de sept pour cent, commission de banque comprise, et la Banque pourra demander au

two advances will be 7 per cent, bank commission included, and the Bank may ask the Government to

Loan.

Gouvernement de lui remettre en garantie de leur montant une somme équivalente en Bons du Trésor.
Si, avant l'expiration des dix années, le Gouvernement marocain venait à contracter un em-

give as security an equal amount in Treasury notes.
If before the expiration of the said term of ten years the Moorish Government should contract a

prunt, la Banque aurait la faculté loan, the Bank would have the

d'obtenir le remboursement immédiat des avances faites conformément au deuxième alinéa du

right to obtain the immediate reimbursement of its advances made in accordance with the second

Special tax fund.

présent article. ART. 36. Le produit de la taxe
spéciale (Articles 33 et 66) formera

paragraph of the present article. ART. 36. The proceeds of the
special tax (articles 33 and 66)

un fonds spécial dont la Banque shall form a special fund for which tiendra une comptabilité à part. the Bank shall keep a separate

Ce fonds sera employé conformé- account. This fund shall be em-

ment aux prescriptions arrêtées ployed in conformity to the regu-

par la Conférence."

lations adopted by the conference.

En cas d'insuffisance et à valoir In the case of its insufficiency, sur les rentrées ultérieures , la . and chargeable to later receipts ,

Banque pourra ouvrir à ce fonds the Bank may open a special credit

un crédit dont l'importance ne for such fund, the amount of

dépassera pas le montant des en- which should not exceed the total

caissements pendant l'année an- of the receipts for the previous

térieure .

year.

Les conditions de taux et de The conditions of the rate and

commission seront les mêmes que celles fixées à l'article précédent pour l'avance en compte-courant au Trésor.

commission shall be the same as those established by the preceding article for advances to the Treasury on account current.

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2919

ART. 37. La Banque prendra les ART. 37. The Bank shall take Monetary system.

mesures qu'elle jugera utiles pour such measures as it may deem conassainir la situation monétaire au ducive to a sounder monetary sit-

Maroc. La monnaie espagnole continuera à être admise à la circulation avec force libératoire.
En conséquence, la Banque sera exclusivement chargée de l'achat des métaux précieux , de la frappe et de la refonte des monnaies, ainsi que de toutes autres opérations monétaires qu'elle fera pour le compte et au profit du Gouvernement marocain.
ART. 38. La Banque, dont le

uation in Morocco. Spanish currency shall continue to be permitted to circulate as legal tender.
In consequence, the Bank shall have the exclusive charge of purchasing precious metals, of striking and melting coins, as well as of all its other monetary operations for the account and profit of the Moorish Government.
ART. 38. The home office of the

Coinage. Home office, etc.

siège social sera à Tanger, établira des succursales et agences dans les principales villes du Maroc et dans tout autre endroit où elle le jugera utile.
ART. 39. Les emplacements nécessaires à l'établissement de la Banque ainsi que de ses succursales et agences au Maroc seront mis gratuitement à sa disposition par le Gouvernement et, à l'expiration de la concession , le Gouvernement

Bank shall be at Tangier, but it shall establish branches and agencies in the principal cities of Morocco or in any other place it may deem expedient.
ART. 39. The land necessary for the establishment of the Bank, as well as its branches and agencies in Morocco , shall be placed gratuitously at its disposal by the Government , and at the expiration of the concession the Government

Real estate.

en reprendra possession et remboursera à la Banque les frais de construction de ces établissements. La Banque sera, en outre, autorisée

shall retake possession of it and reimburse the Bank for the cost of building these establishments. The Bank shall further be author-

à acquérir tout bâtiment et terrain dont elle pourrait avoir besoin pour le même objet.
ART. 40. Le Gouvernement ché-

ized to purchase such houses and land as it may require for the same purpose.
ART. 40. The Shereefian Gov-

Protection .

rifien assurera sous sa responsa- ernment shall insure and be responbilité la sécurité et la protection sible for the safety and protection

de la Banque, de ses succursales of the Bank, its branches and agenet agences. A cet effet, il mettra cies. To this end it shall place an

dans chaque ville une garde suffisante à la disposition de chacun de ces établissements.
ART. 41. La Banque, ses succur-

adequate guard at the disposal of each establishment in every city.
ART. 41. The Bank, its branches

Tax exemptions.

sales et agences, seront exemptes de tout impôt ou redevance ordinaire ou extraordinaire , existants ou à créer ; il en est de même pour les immeubles affectés à ses

and agencies, shall be exempt from all imposts or dues, ordinary or extraordinary, existing or to be created. The same exemption shall be extended to real estate

services, les titres et coupons de ses actions et ses billets. L'importation et l'exportation des métaux et monnaies destinés aux opérations de la Banque, seront autorisées et exemptes de tout droit.
ART. 42. Le Gouvernement ché-
rifien exercera sa haute surveil-

devoted to its use , and to the certi-
ficates and coupons of its shares
and to its notes. The importation
and exportation of metals and coins
intended for banking operations
shall be authorized and exempted from every ax.
ART. 42. The Shereefian Gov- Supervision byHigh Commissioner.
ernment shall exercise its high

lance sur la Banque par un Haut supervision over the Bank by a Commissaire marocain, nommé High Commissioner, whom it shall

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -6

2920

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Duties.

par lui, après entente préalable avec le Conseil d'Administration de la Banque.
Ce Haut Commissaire aura le

appoint after a previous agreement with the Bank's Board of Directors.
This High Commissioner shall

droit de prendre connaissance de la gestion de la Banque; il contrôlera l'émission des billets de Banque et veillera à la stricte observation des dispositions de la concession.
Le Haut Commissaire devra
signer chaque billet ou y apposer son sceau ; il sera chargé de la surveillance des relations de la Banque åvec le Trésor Impérial .

have the right to examine into the management of the Bank. He
shall supervise the issuance of bank notes and shall see that the provisions of the concession are strictly observed .
The High Commissioner shall sign every note or affix thereto his
seal . He shall be charged with the supervision of the relations between the Bank and the Imperial Treasury.

Il ne pourra pas s'immiscer dans

l'administration et la gestion des

affaires de la Banque, mais il aura

toujours le droit d'assister aux

réunions des Censeurs.

Deputy commissioners.

Le Gouvernement chérifien nom-

mera un ou deux Commissaires

adjoints qui seront spécialement

chargés de contrôler les opérations financières du Trésor avec la

Regulations.

Banque. ART. 43. Un règlement, pré-

cisant les rapports de la Banque et du Gouvernement marocain, sera

He shall take no part in the administration or transaction of the banking business, but he shall always have the right to attend the meetings of the Censors.
The Shereefian Government
shall appoint one or two deputy commissioners, who shall be especially charged with the supervision of the financial transactions of the Treasury with the Bank.
ART. 43. A set of rules defining the relations of the Bank and of the Moorish Government shall be

établi par le Comité spécial prévu

à l'article 57 et approuvé par les

Censeurs .

French law to

govern .

ART. 44. La Banque, constituée

avec approbation du Gouverne-

ment de Sa Majesté Chérifienne,

sous la forme des sociétés anony-

Prosecutions.

mes, est régie par la loi française sur la matière.
ART. 45. Les actions intentées

framed by the special committee provided for in article 57 and approved by the Censors.
ART. 44. The Bank, organized with the approval of the Government of His Shereefian Majesty in the form of a corporation , shall be governed by the French law relative thereto .
ART. 45. Actions instituted in

au Maroc par la Banque seront portées devant le Tribunal consulaire du défendeur ou devant la juridiction marocaine, conformément aux règles de compétence établies par les traités te les firmans chérifiens.
Les actions, intentées au Maroc

Morocco by the Bank shall be brought before the Consular Court
of the defendant or before the jurisdiction of Morocco, in accordance with the rules of competence established by the Shereefian treaties and firmans.
Actions instituted in Morocco

contre la Banque, seront portées devant un Tribunal spécial , composé de trois magistrats consulaires et de deux assesseurs. Le Corps

against the Bank shall be brought before a special tribunal consisting of three consular magistrates and two associates. The Diplomatic

Appeals.

Diplomatique établira, chaque année, la liste des magistrats , des
assesseurs, et de leurs suppléants. Ce Tribunal appliquera à ces
causes les règles de droit, de procédure et de compétence édictées en matière commerciale par la législation française. L'appel des

Body shall, each year, arrange the list of magistrates, associates, and substitutes.
This tribunal shall apply to such cases the rules of law, procedure, and competence established by the French legislation in commercial matters. Appeals from judgments

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7 , 1906 .

2921

jugements prononcés par ce Tribunal sera porté devant la Cour fédérale de Lausanne qui statuera en dernier ressort.
ART. 46. En cas de contestation sur les clauses de la concession ou
de litiges pouvant survenir entre le Gouvernement marocain et la Banque, le différend sera soumis, sans appel ni recours , à la Cour fédérale de Lausanne.
Seront également soumises à cette Cour, sans appel ni recours, toutes les contestations qui pourraient s'élever entre les action-
naires et la Banque sur l'exécution des Statuts ou à raison des affaires sociales.
ART. 47. Les Statuts de la
Banque seront établis d'après les bases suivantes par un Comité spécial prévu par l'article 57. Ils seront approuvés par les Censeurs et ratifiés par l'Assemblée générale des actionnaires.
ART. 48. L'Assemblée générale constitutive de la Société fixera le lieu où se tiendront les Assemblées des actionnaires et les réunions du Conseil d'Administration ; toutefois, ce dernier aura la faculté de
se réunir dans toute autre ville s'il le juge utile.

pronounced by this tribunal shall be taken to the Federal Court of

Lausanne, whose decision shall be final.
ART. 46. In case of dispute over SwDiissspcuotuerstr. eferred to

the clauses of the concession or

litigation arising between the

Moorish Government and the Bank, the difference shall be

referred, without appeal or recourse, to the Federal Court of

Lausanne.

All disputes arising between the shareholders and the Bank in

regard to the enforcement of the

by -laws or by reason of the cor-

porate business shall likewise be

referred, without appeal or re-

course, to the same court.

ART. 47.

The

by-laws

of

the

Formulating laws.

by-

Bank shall be framed on the fol-

lowing bases by a special com-

mittee provided for in article 57.

They shall be approved by the

Censors and ratified by the Gen-
eral Assembly of Shareholders.
ART. 48. The General Constitu- Shareholders' meetings.
ent Assembly of the corporation

shall fix the place where the meetings of the shareholders and the

sessions of the Board of Directors

shall be held ; the latter, however,

shall have the faculty of meeting

at any other city if it deems it

La Direction de la Banque sera fixée à Tanger.
ART. 49. La Banque sera administrée par un Conseil d'Administration composé d'autant de membres qu'il sera fait de parts dans le capital initial.
Les administrateurs auront les

expedient . The office of the manager of the
Bank shall be at Tangier. ART. 49. The Bank shall be ad-
ministered by a Board of Directors consisting of as many members as there are parts in the initial capital.
The Directors shall have the

Board of directors. Powers , etc.

pouvoirs les plus étendus pour Padministration et la gestion de la Société ; ce sont eux notamment

most extensive powers for the administration and management of the corporation ; they shall

qui nommeront les Directeurs, Sous- Directeurs et Membres de la Commission, indiquée à l'article 54, ainsi que les Directeurs des Succursales et Agences.
Tous les employés de la Société seront recrutés, autant que possible, parmi les ressortissants des diverses Puissances qui ont pris part à la souscription du capital.
ART. 50. Les Administrateurs, dont la nomination sera faite par l'Assemblée générale des action-

especially appoint the managers, assistant managers, and members

of the commission indicated in

article 54, as well as the managers of branches and agencies.
The employees of the company

Employees.

shall be recruited so far as possible from among the citizens, sub-

jects, or protégés of the several
powers which have taken part in
subscribing the capital. Nomination of di-
ART. 50. The Directors, who rectors.

shall be appointed by the General

Assembly of Shareholders, shall

2922

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Foreign censors. Duties.

naires, seront désignés à son be nominated by the groups sub-

agrément par les groupes souscripteurs du capital.
Le premier conseil restera en

scribing the capital. The first Board shall remain five

fonctions pendant cinq années. years in office. At the expiration A l'expiration de ce délai , il sera of this period, there shall be a

procédé à son renouvellement à renewal at the rate of three memraison de trois membres par an. bers annually. The order of out-

Le sort déterminera l'ordre de sortie des Administrateurs; ils seront rééligibles.
A la constitution de la Société,

going Directors shall be determined by lot ; they may be reelected.
On the constitution of the cor-

chaque groupe souscripteur aura le droit de désigner autant d'Administrateurs qu'il aura souscrit de parts entières, sans que les

poration, each subscribing group shall have the right to nominate as many directors as it shall have subscribed entire parts, but such

groupes soient obligés de porter leur choix sur un candidat de leur propre nationalité.
Les groupes souscripteurs ne conserveront leur droit de dési- . gnation des Administrateurs , lors du remplacement de ces derniers , ou du renouvellement de leur mandat, qu'autant qu'ils pourront justifier être encore en possession d'au moins la moitié de chaque part pour laquelle ils exercent ce droit.

groups shall not be compelled to select candidates of their own na-
tionality . The subscribing groups shall not
retain their right of nominating directors when the latter are superseded or reelected , unless they can prove that they still have in their possession at least one-half the share conferring that right upon them.

Dans le cas où, par suite de ces In a case where, by reason of

dispositions, un groupe souscrip- these provisions, a subscribing teur ne se trouverait plus en group should be no longer in a posi-

mesure de désigner un administrateur, l'Assemblée générale des actionnaires, pourvoirait directement à cette désignation.
ART. 51. Chacun des établisse-

tion to nominate a director, the General Assembly of Shareholders shall make a direct nomination .
ART. 51. Each of the following

ments ci-après : Banque de l'Em- institutions : the Bank of the Ger-

pire Allemand , Banque d'Angleterre, Banque d'Espagne, Banque de France, nommera, avec l'agrément de son Gouvernement , un

man Empire, the Bank of England, the Bank of Spain, and the Bank of France , shall , with their Government's approval, appoint a

Censeur auprès de la Banque Censor for the State Bank of

d'Etat du Maroc.

Morocco.

Les Censeurs resteront en fonc- The Censors shall remain in tions pendant quatre années. Les office four years . The outgoing

Censeurs sortants peuvent être désignés à nouveau.
En cas de décès ou de démission ,

Censors may be reappointed. In the case of death or resigna-

il sera pourvu à la vacance par l'établissement qui a procédé à la désignation de l'ancien titulaire , mais seulement pour le temps où ce dernier devait rester en charge.
ART. 52. Les Censeurs qui ex-

tion the institution which had appointed the former incumbent shall fill the vacancy, but only for the unexpired term of the vacated office .
ART. 52. The Censors who shall

erceront leur mandat en vertu du exercise their mandate by virtue

présent Acte des Puissances signa- of this act of the Signatory Powtaires devront, dans l'intérêt de ers shall, in the interests of the

celles-ci , veiller sur le bon fonc- latter, see that the Bank is effici-

tionnement de la Banque et as- ently operated and insure the surer la stricte observation des strict observance of the clauses of

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2923

clauses de la Concession et des
Statuts. Ils veilleront à l'exact accomplissement des prescriptions concernant l'émission des billets et devront surveiller les opérations tendant à l'assainissement de la situation monétaire ; mais ils ne
pourront jamais, sous quelque prétexte que ce soit, s'immiscer dans la gestion des affaires , ni dans l'administration intérieure de la Banque.
Chacun des Censeurs pourra
examiner en tout temps les comptes de la Banque, demander, soit au Conseil d'Administration, soit à la Direction, des informations sur la gestion de la Banque et assister aux réunions du Conseil d'Administration, mais seulement avec voix consultative .
Les quatre Censeurs se réuniront à Tanger, dans l'exercice de leurs fonctions, au moins une fois tous les deux ans, à une date à concerter entr'eux. D'autres réunions à Tanger ou ailleurs devront avoir lieu , si trois des Censeurs l'exigent.
Les quatre Censeurs dresseront, d'un commun accord, un rapport annuel qui sera annexé à celui du Conseil d'Administration. LeCon-
seil d'Administration transmettra, sans délai, une copie de ce rapport à chacun des Gouvernements signataires de l'Acte de la Conférence.
ART. 53. Les émoluments et in-
demnités de déplacement, affectés aux Censeurs, seront établis par le Comité d'étude des Statuts. Ils seront directement versés à ces agents par les Banques chargées de leur désignation et remboursés à ces établissements par la Banque d'Etat du Maroc.
ART. 54. Il sera institué à Tan-
ger auprès de la Direction une Commission dont les membres seront choisis par le Conseil d'Administration sans distinction de
nationalité, parmi les notables résidant à Tanger, propriétaires d'actions de la Banque.
Cette Commission, qui sera pré-
sidée par un des Directeurs, ou Sous - Directeurs , donnera on avis
sur les escomptes et ouvertures de crédits.

the concession and of the statutes. They shall see that the regulations governing the issuance of notes are precisely fulfilled, and shall supervise the operations tending to put the monetary situation on a sound basis, but they shall never, under any pretext, interfere in the conduct of business or in the internal administration of the Bank.

Each of the Censors shall be em-
powered to examine at all times the Bank accounts, and to call for information either from the Board of Directors or the manager's office
with regard to the management of the Bank, and attend the meetings of the Board of Directors, but only in an advisory capacity .
The four Censors shall meet at
Tangier in the discharge of their duties at least once every two years , at a time to be fixed by them. Other meetings at Tangier or elsewhere may take place if three of the Censors should demand it.

Examinations. Meetings.

The four Censors shall draw up
in common accord an annual report, which shall be annexed to that of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall transmit without delay a copy of such report to each of the Governments signatory to the act of the conference.
ART. 53. The Censors' emolu-
ments and traveling expenses shall be fixed by the committee on bylaws . They shall be paid directly by the banks charged with their nomination, and the amount reimbursed to these institutions by the State Bank of Morocco.

Report. Emoluments, etc.

ART. 54. To assist the manager's hoClodemrmsi.ttee of share office a committee shall be established at Tangier, the members of which shall be chosen by the Board of Directors, without distinction of nationality, from among the notables residing at Tangier and holding shares of the Bank.
This committee , which shall be
presided over by one of the managers or assistant managers, shall
give its advice on questions of discounts and opening of credit accounts .

2924

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Elle adressera un rapport men- It shall transmit a monthly re-

Capital, etc. Post, p. 2925.

suel sur ces diverses questions au Conseil d'Administration.
ART. 55. Le capital , dont l'importance sera fixée par le Comité spécial désigné à l'article 57, sans pouvoir être inférieur à quinze

port on these various subjects to the Board of Directors .
ART. 55. The capital , of which the amount shall be fixed by the special committee designated in article 57, shall be not less than

millions de francs, ni supérieur à vingt millions , sera formé en monnaie or et les actions, dont les coupures représenteront une valeur

fifteen million francs nor more than twenty million francs , and shall be of gold coin , and the shares thereof, of the value of five hun-

équivalente à cinq cents francs , seront libellées dans les diverses monnaies or , à un change fixe , déterminé par les Statuts.
Ce capital pourra être ultérieure-
ment augmenté, en une ou plusieurs fois, par décision de l'Assemblée Générale des Actionnaires .
La souscription de ces augmen-

dred francs each , shall be inscribed with the various gold coinages at a fixed rate of exchange, as determined by the by-laws.
The said capital may thereafter be increased at one or more times by a decision of the General Assembly of Shareholders.
The subscription to the increased

tations de capital sera réservée à capital shall be reserved for all tous les porteurs d'actions , sans shareholders, without distinction

distinction de groupe, proportion nellement aux titres possédés par chacun d'eux. Division of initial ART 56. Le capital initial de la capital. Banque sera divisé en autant de

of groups, in proportion to their individual holdings.
ART. 56. The initial capital of the Bank shall be divided into as

Subscriptions. Notification.

parts égales qu'il y aura de parties prenantes parmi les Puissances représentées à la Conférence.
A cet effet, chaque Puissance désignera une Banque qui exercera, soit pour elle-même, soit pour un groupe de banques, le droit de souscription ci dessus spécifié, ainsi que le droit de désignation des Administrateurs prévu à l'article 50. Toute banque, choisie comme chef de groupe, pourra avec l'autorisation de son Gouvernement être remplacée par une autre banque du même pays.
Les Etats, qui voudraient se prévaloir de leur droit de souscription, auront à communiquer cette

many equal parts as there are participants among the powers represented at the conference.
To this end, each power shall designate a bank which shall exercise either for itself or for a group of banks the above-specified right of subscription, as well as the right of nomination of the Directors, as provided in article 50. Any bank selected as head of a group may, with its Government's authorization, be superseded by another bank of the same country.
States wishing to avail themselves of their rights of subscription must notify such intention to

intention au Gouvernement Royal d'Espagne dans un délai de quatre semaines, à partir de la signature

the Royal Government of Spain within a period of four weeks from the signature of this act by

du présent Acte par les représentants des Puissances . Allotment to banks. Toutefois, deux parts égales à celles réservées à chacun des

the representatives of the powers.
Two parts, however, equal to those reserved to each of the sub-

groupes souscripteurs seront at- scribing groups, shall be assigned

tribuées au Consortium des banques signataires du contrat du 12 Juin 1904, en compensation de la cession qui sera faite par le Consortium à la Banque d'Etat duMaroc :

to the consortium of banks signatory of the contract of June 12, 1904, in compensation for the ces-
sion which shall be made by the consortium to the State Bank of Morocco :

1º des droits spécifiés à l'article (1) Of the rights specified in

33 du contrat ;

article 33 of the contract ;

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2925

2º du droit inscrit à l'article 32 (2) Of the right inscribed in

( 2 ) du contrat, concernant le solde article 32 (paragraph 2) of the con-

disponible des recettes douanières tract concerning the available bal-

sous réserve expresse du privilège ance of the customs receipts , with

général conféré en premier rang the express reservation of the gen-

par l'article 11 du même contrat aux porteurs de Titres sur la totalité du Produit des Douanes.
ART. 57. Dans un délai de trois semaines à partir de la clôture de

eral preferential right to the ag-

gregate proceeds of customs grant-

ed to bondholders by article 11 of

the same contract.

ART. 57. Within

a period

of Special meeting.

three weeks from the time of clos-

committee

la souscription, notifiée par le Gouvernement Royal d'Espagne aux Puissances intéressées, un
Comité spécial , composé de délégués nommés par les groupes souscripteurs, dans les conditions prévues à l'article 50 pour la nomination des Administrateurs, se réunira afin d'élaborer les Statuts de la Banque.
L'Assemblée générale constitutive de la Société aura lieu dans un délai de deux mois, à partir de la ratification du présent Acte.
La rôle du Comité spécial ces-

ing the subscriptions, notified by the Royal Government of Spain to the powers interested , a special committee composed of delegates appointed by the subscribing groups, as provided in article 50 for the appointment of Directors, shall meet with a view to elaborating the by-laws of the Bank.
The General Constituent Assembly shall meet two months after the ratification of this act.
The functions of such special

Ante, p. 2921.

sera aussitôt après la constitution committee shall cease upon the

de la Société.

organization of the corpcration.

Le Comité spécial fixera luimême le lieu de ses réunions.
ART. 58. Aucune modification

The special committee shall fix the place of its meetings.
ART. 58. No modification shall

Changes in by-laws.

aux Statuts ne pourra être apportée i ce n'est sur la proposition du
Conseil d'Administration et après avis conforme des Censeurs et du Haut Commissaire Impérial.
Ces modifications devront être

be made in the by- laws except on the motion of the Board of Direct-
ors and with the advice and consent of the Censors and the Imperial High Commissioner.
Such modifications must be voted

votées par l'Assemblée Générale des Actionnaires à la majorité des trois quarts des membres présents ou représentés .

by athree-quarters majority , either present or represented, of the General Assembly of Shareholders .

CHAPITRE IV

CHAPTER IV.

Déclaration concernant un meilleur
rendement des impôts et la création de nouveaux revenus

A declaration

concerning

a

better

Taxation nue.

and

reve-

return of taxes and the creation

ofnew revenues.

ART. 59. Dès que le tertib sera mis à exécution d'une façon régulière à l'égard des sujets marocains, les Représentants des Puissances à Tanger y soumettront leurs ressortissants dans l'Empire. Mais il est entendu que le dit impôt ne sera appliqué aux étrangers ,
a) que dans les conditions fixées par le règlement du Corps Diplo-

ART. 59. As soon as the " tertib"
shall haye been put into regular operation with regard to Moorish subjects, the representatives of the powers at Tangier shall subject. their citizens, subjects, and protégés in the Empire to the application thereof. But it is understood that this tax shall not be applied to foreign subjects except-
(a) Under the conditions stipulated by the regulation of the

" Tertib." Application .

2926

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

matique à Tanger en date du 23 Novembre 1903,
b) que dans les localités où il

Diplomatic Body at Tangier on November 24, 1903 ;
(b) At places where it shall ef-

sera effectivement perçu sur les sujets marocains.
Les autorités consulaires retien,

fectively be collected from Moorish subjects.
The consular authorities shall

dront un tantième pour cent des sommes encaissées sur leurs ressortissants pour couvrir les frais occasionnés par la rédaction des rôles et le recouvrement de la taxe .
Le taux de cette retenue sera

retain a certain percentage of the receipts of the taxes they collect from those subject to their jurisdiction to cover the cost of tax bills and collection.
The rate of such percentage

Property oreigners.

rights

fixé, d'un commun accord, par le Makhzen et le Corps Diplomatique à Tanger. of ART. 60. Conformément au
droit qui leur a été reconnu par l'article 11 de la Convention de

shall be fixed by mutual agreement setween the Maghzen and the Diplomatic Body at Tangier.
ART. 60. In accordance with the
right granted by article 11 of the Madrid Convention , foreigners

Madrid, les étrangers pourront shall have the right to acquire acquérir des propriétés dans toute property throughout the Sheree-

l'étendue de l'Empire Chérifien et fian Empire, and His Majesty the Sa Majesté le Sultan donnera aux Sultan shall issue to his adminis-

autorités administratives et judi- trative and judicial officers such ciaires les instructions nécessaires instructions as may be necessary

pour que l'autorisation de passer les actes ne soit pas refusée sans
motif légitime. Quant aux transmissions ultérieures par actes en-

for them not to refuse the registration of deeds without lawful cause. Subsequent transfers, either by deeds between living

In open ports.

tre vifs ou après décès, elles continueront à s'exercer sans aucune entrave .
Dans les ports ouverts au commerce et dans un rayon de dix kilomètres autour de ces ports, Sa Majesté le Sultan accorde, d'une façon générale , et sans qu'il soit désormais nécessaire de l'ob

parties or by death, shall continue without hindrance.
In the ports open to commerce and within a radius of ten kilometers around such ports, His Majesty the Sultan , generally and without it being necessary henceforth for foreign subjects to obtain

tenir spécialement pour chaque a special permission for each purachat de propriété par les étran- chase of property, now grants the

Other places.

gers , le consentement exigé par l'article 11 de la Convention de Madrid .
A Ksar el Kebir, Arzila , Azemmour et, éventuellement, dans

consent required by article 11 of the Madrid Convention .
At Ksar el Kebir, Arzila, Azemour, and eventually in other.

d'autres localités du littoral ou de towns of the coast or the interior,

l'intérieur, l'autorisation générale the general authorization stated

ci-dessus mentionnée est égale- above is likewise granted to for-

ment accordée aux étrangers, mais

seulement pour les acquisitions

dans un rayon de deux kilomètres

autour de ces villes.

Erection of buildings.

Partout où les étrangers auront

acquis des propriétés, ils pour-

ront élever des constructions en se

conformant aux règlements et

Deeds.

usages . Avant d'autoriser la rédaction

eigners, but only for purchasers within a radius of two kilometers around those towns.
Wherever foreigners may have acquired property they will be permitted to erect buildings in compliance with regulations and usage.
Before authorizing the execution

des actes transmissifs de propriété, of deeds for transferring property, le Cadi devra s'assurer, conformé- the Cadi will have to satisfy him-

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2927

ment à la loi musulmane, de la régularité des titres.
Le Makhzen désignera, dans chacune des villes et circonscriptions indiquées au présent article, le Cadi qui sera chargé d'effectuer ces vérifications.
ART. 61. Dans le but de créer

self of the validity of the title in conformity to the Mohammedan law.
The Maghzen shall designate in each city and district specified in this article the Cadi who shall have charge of such verification .
ART. 61. With a view to cre-

Verification. Building taxes.

de nouvelles ressources au Makhzen, la Conférence reconnait , en
principe, qu'une taxe pourra être établie sur les constructions urbaines.
Une partie des recettes ainsi réalisées sera affectée aux besoins

ating new resources for the Maghzen, the conference recognizes in principle that a tax may be established on city buildings.
A part of the receipts thus realized shall be set aside for the

de la voirie et de l'hygiène municipales et, d'une façon générale, aux dépenses d'amélioration et d'entretien des villes.
La taxe sera due par le propriétaire marocain ou étranger sans aucune distinction ; mais le locataire ou le détenteur de la clef en sera responsable envers le Trésor marocain.

requirements of municipal streets and hygiene , and generally for the expense of improvement and conservation of the cities.
The tax is due from the Moorish or foreign owner, without distinction, but the tenant or the holder of the key shall be responsible to the Moorish Treasury.

Un règlement édicté, d'un commun accord, par le Gouvernement chérifien et le Corps Diplomatique á Tanger , fixera le taux de la taxe, son mode de perception et d'application et déterminera la quotité
des ressources ainsi créées qui devra être affectée aux dépenses d'amélioration : et d'entretien des villes.

Regulations issued jointly by the Shereefian Government and the Diplomatic Body at Tangier shall establish the rate, its method of collection and application , and shall determine the quota of revenue thus created which shall be
devoted to the expense of improvement and conservation of the cities.

A Tanger, cette quotité sera At Tangier this quota shall be versée au Conseil sanitaire inter- turned over to the International

national, qui en règlera l'emploi jusqu'à la création d'une organisation municipale.
ART. 62. Sa Majesté Chérifienne , ayant décidé en 1901 que les fonctionnaires marocains, chargés de

Sanitary Council, which shall decide as to its use until the creation of a municipal organization.
ART. 62. His Shereefian Majesty having decided in 1901 that the Moorish officials who collect the

Agricultural taxes.

la perception des impôts agricoles, ne recevraient plus des populations ni sokhra ni mouna, la Conférence estime que cette règle devra être généralisée autant que possible.
ART. 63. Les Délégués chérifiens ont exposé que des biens habous ou certaines propriétés do maniales, notamment des immeubles du Makhzen , occupés contre paiement de la redevance de six pour cent, sont détenus par des ressortissants étrangers, sans titres réguliers ou en vertu de contrats sujets à révision . La Conférence, désireuse de remédier à cet état de

agricultural taxes should no longer receive either the "sokhra" or the " mouna , " the conference is of the opinion that this rule should be
made general, so far as is possible. ART. 63. The Shereefian dele- Buildings rented by foreigners.
gates have stated that habou property, or certain State property, notably buildings of the Maghzen , occupied at a rental of 6 per cent, are held by persons subject to foreign jurisdiction without regular title or by virtue of contracts subject to revision. The conference , desirous of remedying this state of affairs, charges

2928

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

choses, charge le Corps Diplo- the Diplomatic Body at Tangier matique à Tanger de donner une to solve these two questions

solution équitable á ces deux ques equitably, in accord with the tions, d'accord avec le Commis- special commissioner whom His

saire spécial que Sa Majesté Chérifienne voudra bien désigner à cet effet. Taxes on trade, etc. ART. 64. La Conférence prend acte des propositions formulées

par les Délégués chérifiens au sujet de la création de taxes sur certains

commerces, industries et professions.

Si, à la suite de l'application de

Stamp taxes, etc.

ces taxes aux sujets marocains, le Corps Diplomatique à Tanger estimait qu'il y a lieu de les étendre aux ressortissants étrangers, il est, dès à présent spécifié que les dites taxes seront exclusivement municipales.
ART. 65. La Conférence se rallie

Shereefian Majesty may be pleased to designate to that effect.
ART. 64. The conference takes
formal note of the proposition formulated by the Shereefian delegates on the subject of taxes to be created on certain trades , industries, and professions.
If as the result of the collection of such taxes from Moorish subjects the Diplomatic Body at Tangier should deem it advisable to extend the same to those under
foreign jurisdiction, it is hereby specified that the said taxes shall be exclusively municipal.
ART. 65. The conference ad-

à la proposition faite par la Délé- heres to the proposition proposed

gation marocaine d'établir avec Fassistance duCorps Diplomatique :
a) un droit de timbre sur les

bythe Moorish delegation tocreate, with the assistance of the Diplomatic Body-
(a) A stamp tax on contracts

contrats et actes authentiques

passés devant les adoul;

b) un droit de mutation, au

maximum de deux pour cent, sur

les ventes immobilières;

33

and notarial acts brought before " adouls."
(b) A maximum transfer tax of 2 per cent on sales of real estate.

c) un droit de statistique et de pesage, au maximum de un pour cent ad valorem, sur les marchandises transportées par cabotage;
d) un droit de passeport à percevoir sur les sujets marocains ;
e) éventuellement, des droits

(c) A statistical and weighing tax of a maximum of 1 per cent ad valorem on merchandise transported by coasting vessels.
(d) A passport fee to be collected from Moorish subjects.
(e) Eventually, wharfage and

Tax on imports.

de quais et de phares dont le produit devra être affecté à l'amélioration des ports.
ART. 66. A titre temporaire, les

light- house dues, the proceeds of which shall be devoted to harbor
improvement. ART. 66. Merchandise of foreign

Proceeds.

marchandises d'origine étrangère seront frappées à leur entrée au Maroc d'une taxe spéciale s'élevant à deux et demi pour cent ad valorem . Le produit intégral de
cette taxe formera un fonds spécial qui sera affecté aux dépenses et à l'exécution de travaux publics, destinés au développement de la navigation et du commerce en général dans l'Empire chérifien .
Le programme des travaux et

origin shall temporarily be subject on entry into Morocco to special taxes amounting to 24 per cent ad valorem. The whole proceeds of
this special tax shall form a special fund, which shall be devoted to the execution of and expenses connected with public works for the development of navigation and the general trade of the Shereefian
Empire . The programme of works and

leur ordre de priorité seront their order of priority shall be arrêtés, d'un commun accord, par determined jointly by the Shereele Gouvernement chérifien et par fian Government and the Diplole Corps Diplomatique à Tanger. matic Body at Tangier.
Les études, sevis, projets et.. The surveys, estimates, plans,

GENERAL ACT - MOROCCO . APRIL 7, 1906.

2929

cahiers des charges s'y rapportant and specifications appertaining

seront établis par un ingénieur thereto shall be made by a compecompétent nommé par le Gou- tent engineer, appointed by the

vernement chérifien d'accord avec Shereefian Government jointly

le Corps Diplomatique. Cet ingénieur pourra, au besoin, être assisté d'un ou plusieurs in

with the Diplomatic Body. This engineer may, if necessary, be assisted by one or more assistant

génieurs adjoints. Leur traite- engineers. Their salaries shall be

ment sera imputé sur les fonds de charged to the special fund . la caisse spéciale.

Les fonds de la caisse spéciale seront déposés à la Banque d'Etat du Maroc qui en tiendra la comptabilité.
Les adjudications publiques seront passées dans les formes et suivant les conditions générales prescrites par un Règlement que le Corps Diplomatique à Tanger

The special fund will be deposited with the State Bank of Mo-
rocco, which is to keep its accounts.
Public contracts shall be award- Public awards.
ed in the form and under the
general terms prescribed by the regulations that the Diplomatic Body at Tangier is charged to

contract

est chargé d'établir avec le Représentant de Sa Majesté Chérifienne.
Le bureau d'adjudication sera

frame, together with the representative of His Shereefian Majesty.
The board of awards shall con-

composé d'un représentant du sist of one representative of the Gouvernement chérifien, de cinq Shereefian Government, of five

délégués du Corps Diplomatique et de l'ingénieur.
L'adjudication sera prononcée

delegates of the Diplomatic Body, and of the engineer.
The award shall be given in favor

en faveur du soumissionnaire qui , en se conformant aux prescriptions du cahier des charges, présentera l'offre remplissant les conditions générales les plus avantageuses.
En ce qui concerne les sommes provenant de la taxe speciale et qui seraient perçues dans les bureaux de douane établis dans les régions

of the bidder who, in conformity with the specifications, may submit the bid offering the most advantageous general terms.
As for the sums yielded by the ciaElxtpaexn.diture of spespecial tax and collected at the customs-houses, in the districts specified in article 103 of the Customs

visées par l'article 103 du Règlement sur les douanes , leur emploi sera réglé par le Makhzen avec l'agrément de la Puissance limi-
trophe, conformément aux prescriptions du présent article.
ART. 67. La Conférence, sous
réserve des observations présentées à ce sujet, émet le voeu que les droits d'exportation des marchandises ci-après soient réduits de la manière suivante :

Regulations, their expenditure will be determined upon by the Magh-
zen, with the consent of the neighboring power, in accordance with the clauses of this article.

ART.

67.

The

conference ,

with-

Export tions.

tax

reduc-

out detriment to the observations

offered upon this point, expresses the wish that the export duties on the following merchandise be reduced as follows :

Per cent.

2288

Pois chiches ..

20 pour 100 Chick- peas .

20

Maïs

66 100 Corn ...

20

66

Orge

100 Barley

50

Blé ..

34 66 100 Wheat

34

ART. 68.. Sa Majesté Chérifienne consentira à élever à dix mille le chiffre de six mille têtes de bétail de l'espèce bovine que chaque Puissance aura le droit d'exporter du

ART. 68. His Shereefian Majesty will consent to increase from six to ten thousand the number of head of cattle of the bovine species which each power shall have

Export of cattle.

2930

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906 .

Maroc. L'exportation pourra the right to export from Morocco.

avoir lieu par tous les bureaux de Such exportation, may be effected "

douane. Si , par suite de circon- through any custom-house. If by

stances malheureuses, une pénurie misfortune there should be a scar-

de bétail était constatée dans une city of cattle in any particular dis-

I

région déterminée , Sa Majesté trict his Shereefian Majesty shall

Chérifienne pourrait interdire tem- have the right to temporarily

porairement la sortie du bétail par forbid the exportation of cattle

le port, ou les ports qui desservent through the port or ports of that cette région. Cette mesure ne district. Such measure shall not

devra pas excéder une durée de deux années ; elle ne pourra pas être appliquée à la fois à tous les ports de l'Empire.
Il est d'ailleurs entendu que les

exceed two years ; nor shall it be applied at the same time to all the ports of the Empire .
It is further understood that the

dispositions précédentes ne modifient pas les autres conditions de
l'exportation du bétail fixées par les firmans antérieurs.
La Conférence émet, en outre ,

preceding provisions do not modify the other conditions for the
exportation of cattle as fixed by previous firmans.
The conference expresses the

Coasting trade.

le voeu qu'un service d'inspection vétérinaire soit organisé au plus tôt dans les ports de la côte.
ART. 69. Conformément aux dé-

additional wish that a veterinary inspection be organized as soon as possible at the seaports.
ART. 69. In accordance with the

Restrictions.

cisions antérieures de Sa Majesté Chérifienne et notamment à la décision du 28 septembre 1901 , est autorisé entre tous les ports de l'Empire le transport par cabotage des céréales, graines , légumes, oeufs, fruits, volailles, et, en général, des marchandises et animaux de toute espèce , originaires ou non du Maroc, à l'exception des chevaux, mulets , ânes et chameaux pour lesquels un permis spécial du Makhzen sera nécessaire . Le ca-
botage pourra être effectué par des bateaux de toute nationalité, sans

previous decisions of His Shereefian Majesty, and notably the decision of September 28th, 1901 , the transportation is allowed by coasting vessels, between all ports of the Empire , of cereals , grains, vegetables, fruits, eggs, poultry, and in general of merchandise and animals of every kind, of Moroccan origin or not; except horses, donkeys , and camels, for which a special permit from the Maghzen will be necessary. Such coasting trade may be carried on by vessels of every nationality without such

que les dits articles aient à payer les droits d'exportation , mais en

Harbor dues.

se conformant aux droits spéciaux
et aux règlements sur la matière. ART. 70. Le taux des droits de

stationnement ou d'ancrage im-

posés aux navires dans les ports marocains se trouvant fixé par des traités passés avec certaines Puissances, ces Puissances sé montrent disposés à consentir la révision des dits droits. Le Corps

Diplomatique à Tanger est chargé d'établir, d'accord avec le Makhzen,

les conditions de la révision qui ne

pourra avoir lieu qu'après l'amélio-

ration des ports.

Customs storage dues.

ART. 71. Les droits de magasi-

nage en douane seront perçus dans

tous les ports marocains où il ex-

istera des entrepôts suffisants, con-

articles being subjected to payment of the export duties, but subject to the special taxes and regulations relative thereto.
ART. 70. The rate of sojourn and anchorage dues levied on ships in Moorish ports being fixed by treaties with certain powers, the said powers are disposed to consent to a revision of such dues.
The Diplomatic Body at Tangier is therefore charged to effect an agreement with the Maghzen on the terms of such revision, which can not, however, take place until after the improvementof the ports.
ART. 71. The customs storage dues shall be collected in all Moorish ports where there are adequate warehouses, in conformity to the

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2931

formément aux règlements pris ou à prendre sur la matière par le Gouvernement de Sa Majesté Ché-

regulations existing or to be
adopted in regard thereto by the Government of His Shereefian

rifienne, d'accord avec le Corps Diplomatique à Tanger.
ART. 72. L'opium et le kif continueront à faire l'objet d'un monopole au profit du Gouvernement chérifien. Néanmoins, l'importa tion de l'opium spécialement des-

Majesty in accord with the Diplomatic Body at Tangier.
ART. 72. Opium and kiff will continue to be a monopoly of the Shereefian Government. The im-
portation of opium specially intended for medicinal purposes

Opium and kiff.

tiné à des emplois pharmaceutiques sera autorisée par permis spécial, délivré par le Makhzen, sur la demande de la Légation dont relève
le pharmacien ou médecin importateur. Le Gouvernement Chéri-

will, however, be allowed by special permit issued by the Maghzen at the request of the legation , the physician, or apothecary importing the same. The Shereefian Government and the

fien et le Corps Diplomatique règleront, d'un commun accord, la quantité maxima à introduire.
ART. 73. Les Représentants des Puissances prennent acte de l'intention du Gouvernement chérifien d'étendre aux tabacs de toutes

Diplomatic Body shall jointly determine the maximum quantity which may be thus introduced.
ART. 73. The representatives of the powers take note of the Shereefian Government's intention to extend to tobacco of all kinds the

Tobacco.

sortes le monopole existant en ce qui concerne le tabac à priser. Ils réservent le droit de leurs ressor-

monopoly existing in the case of snuff. They reserve the right of their citizens , subjects, and proté-

tissants à être dûment indemnisés gés to be duly indemnified for

des préjudices que le dit monopole pourrait occasionner à ceux d'entr'eux qui auraient des industries créées sous le régime actuel concernant le tabac. A défaut d'entente amiable, l'indemnité sera
fixée par des experts désignés par

damages which the said monopoly may cause such of them as carry on a tobacco business established under the present system. In case no amicable agreement shall be reached, the damages shall be fixed by experts designated by

le Makhzen et par le Corps Diplomatique, en se conformant aux dispositions arrêtées en matière d'expropriation pour cause d'utilité publique .
ART. 74. Le principe de l'adjudication, sans acception de nationalité, sera appliqué aux fermes concernant le monopole de l'opium et du kif. Il en serait de même pour le monopole du tabac, s'il était établi.
ART. 75. Au cas où il y aurait lieu de modifier quelqu'une des
dispositions de la présente déclaration , une entente devra s'établir à ce sujet entre le Makhzen et le Corps Diplomatique à Tanger.
ART. 76. Dans tous les cas prévus par la présente déclaration, où le Corps Diplomatique sera appelé à intervenir, sauf en ce qui concerne les articles 64, 70 et 75 , les décisions seront prises à la majorité des voix..

the Maghzen and the Diplomatic Body, in conformity with the provisions governing expropriation for public purposes.

ART. 74. The principle of awarding contracts on bids without preference of nationality shall be applied to the farming of the monopoly of opium and kiff. The same rule would apply to the tobacco monopoly, if created.
ART. 75. If the occasion should

Monopoly contracts. Modification.

arise to modify any of the provi-
sions of this declaration , the Maghzen and the Diplomatic Body at Tangier shall reach an understand-
ing on this point. ART. 76. In all the cases pro- veDnitpiloonm. atic
vided for by the present declaration where the Diplomatic Body shall be called upon to intervene , except in what concerns articles 64, 70 , and 75, the decision shall be reached by a majority of the. votes.

inter-

2932

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

CHAPITRE V

CHAPTER V.

Customs regulation. Règlement sur les douanes de l'Em-

pire et la répression de la fraude et de la contrebande.

Deposits of mani-

fests.

ART. 77. Tout capitaine de

navire de commerce, venant de

A regulation concerning the customs of the Empire and the repression offraud andsmuggling.
ART. 77. Every captain of a merchantman coming from a for-

l'étranger ou du Maroc, devra, eign or a Moorish port shall, within dans les vingt-quatre heures de twenty-four hours after having son admission en libre pratique been granted free pratique in any dans un des ports de l'Empire, of the ports of the Empire, dedéposer au bureau de douane une posit at the customs an exact copy copie exacte de son manifeste, of his manifest , signed by him signée par lui et certifiée conforme and certified to by the vessel's par le consignataire du navire. " consignee. He shall furthermore, I devra, en outre, s'il en est if required to do so, produce berequis, donner communication aux fore the customs authorities the agents de la douane de l'original original of his manifest. de son manifeste.
La douane aura la faculté d'in- The customs shall have power staller à bord un ou plusieurs to station one or more watchmen gardiens pour prévenir tout trafic on board to prevent illicit trade.

Exemptions.

illégal . ART. 78. Sont exempts du dé-
pôt du manifeste :
1.º Les bâtiments de guerre ou affrêtés pour le compte d'une Puissance ;

ART. 78. The following are exempt from depositing the manifest :
1°. Men-of-war or ships chartered for the account of a power.

2.º Les canots appartenant à 2º. Boats belonging to private

des particuliers , qui s'en servent pour leur usage, en s'abstenant de tout transport de marchandises ;
3.º Les bateaux ou embarcations

individuals for their personal use and never carrying any merchandise.
3º. Boats or craft used for shore

employés à la pêche en vue des côtes;
4. Les yachts uniquement em-

fisheries . 4º . Yachts

intended

only as

ployés à la navigation de plaisance et enregistrés au port d'attache dans cette catégorie;

pleasure boats and registered as such at their home ports.

5. Les navires chargés spécia-
lement de la pose et de la réparation des câbles télégraphiques ;
6. Les bateaux uniquement affectés au sauvetage ;
7. Les bâtiments hospitaliers ; 8.º Les navires- écoles de la

5. Ships especially charged with laying down and repairing telegraphic cables.
6. Boats exclusively used in life-saving service.
7°. Hospital ships . 8°. Training ships of the mer-

marine marchande, ne se livrant

pas à des opérations commerciales. Contents of mani- ART 79. Le manifeste, déposé fests.
à la douane, devra annoncer la

nature et la provenance de la cargaison avec les marques et numéros des caisses, balles, ballots,

Investigations.

barriques, etc.
ART. 80. Quand il y aura des indices sérieux faisant soupçonner

l'inexactitude du manifeste, ou

quand le capitaine du navire re-

chant marine not engaged in commercial operations.
ART. 79. The manifest deposited at the customs shall state the nature and origin of the cargo, with the marks and numbers of the cases , bales, bundles , casks , etc.
ART. 80. If there is serious reason to suspect the accuracy of the manifest , or in case the captain of the ship should refuse to allow

fusera de se prêter à la visite et the visit and verifications of cus-

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO . APRIL, 7, 1906.

2933

aux vérifications des agents de la toms officers, the case shall be

douane, le cas sera signalé à l'au- brought to the attention of the

torité consulaire compétente afin proper consular authority , in order

que celle-ci procède avec un délé- that the latter, in company with a

gué de la douane chérifienne, aux delegate of the Shereefian customs ,

enquêtes, visites et vérifications shall undertake the investigations ,

qu'elle jugera nécessaires.

visits, and verifications that he may

ART. 81. Si , à l'expiration du délai de vingt-quatre heures indiqué à l'article 77, le capitaine n'a pas déposé son manifeste, il

judge necessary. ART. 81. If after twenty-four ,livPeernyalotfymafnoirfneostn.-de-
hours, as stated in article 77 , the Ante, p. 2932. captain has not deposited his manifest, he shall incur, unless the

sera passible, à moins que le re- delay be a case of vis major, a fine

tard ne provienne d'un cas de force majeure, d'une amende de cent cinquante pesetas par jour de retard, sans toutefois que cette amende puisse dépasser six cents

of 150 pesetas for each day's delay;
provided, however, that the fine Fraudulent inaccu-
shall not exceed 600 pesetas. If racies. the captain has fraudulently pre-
sented an inaccurate or incomplete

pesetas. Si le capitaine a pré- manifest, he shall be personally senté frauduleusement un mani- condemned to pay a sum equal to

feste inexact ou incomplet, il sera the value of the merchandise for

personnellement condamnéau paiement d'une somme égale à la valeur des marchandises pour lesquelles il n'a pas produit de

which he has failed to produce the manifest, and a fine of from 500 to 1,000 pesetas , and the vessel and merchandise shall be further liable

manifeste, et à une amende de to seizure by consular authority cinq cents à mille pesetas, et le as security for such fine. bâtiment et les marchandises pour-

ront- en outre être saisis par l'autorité consulaire compétente pour

la sûreté de l'amende . ART. 82. Toute personne, au
moment de dédouaner les marchandises importées ou destinées à l'exportation, doit faire à la douane une déclaration détaillée , énon-

Invoice declaraART. 82. Any person about to tions. pass through the customs merchandise imported or intended for
exportation shall file in the cus-
tom-house a detailed statement

çant l'espèce, la qualité, le poids, le nombre, la mesure et la valeur des marchandises, ainsi que l'espèce, les marques et les numéros des colis qui les contiennent.
ART. 83. Dans le cas où, lors de la visite, on trouvera moins de

setting forth the nature, quality, weight, number, measurement, and value of the merchandise, as well as the nature, marks , and numbers of the packages containing the same.
ART. 83. If there should be found at the time of the visit fewer

Inaccurate invoices.

colis ou de marchandises qu'il n'en packages or less merchandise than a été déclaré, le déclarant, à moins declared , the declarant, unless able

qu'il ne puisse justifier de sa bonne to prove that he has acted in good foi, devra payer double droit pour faith, shall pay double duties for

les marchandises manquant, et les the missing merchandise, and the marchandises présentées seront merchandise presented shall be

retenues en douane pour la sûreté retained in the customs as security de ce double droit ; si, au contraire, for such double duty. If, on the

on trouve à la visite un excédant contrary, there should be found at

quant au nombre des colis, à la the time of the visit an excess of

quantité ou au poids des marchan- packages, or quantity , or weight of dises, cet excédant sera saisi et the merchandise, this excess shall confisqué au profit du Makhzen à be seized and confiscated for the

moins que le déclarant ne puisse benefit of the Maghzen, unless the

justifier de sa bonne foi.

person making the declaration can ·· prove his good faith.

2934

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

As to kind and ART. 84. Si la déclaration a été quality.
reconnue inexacte quant à l'espèce

ou à la qualité, et si le déclarant

ne peut justifier de sa bonne foi ,

les marchandises inexactement dé-

clarées seront saisies et confisquées

au profit du Makhzen par l'auto-

As to value.

rité compétente. ART. 85. Dans le cas où la dé-

claration serait reconnue inexacte

quant à la valeur déclarée et si le déclarant ne peut justifier de sa

bonne foi, la douane pourra, soit prélever le droit en nature séance tenante, soit, au cas où la marchandise est indivisible, acquérir la dite marchandise, en payant immédiatement au déclarant la valeur déclarée, augmentée de

cinq pour cent. False declarations. ART. 86. Si la déclaration est

reconnue fausse quant à la nature des marchandises, celles-ci seront considérées comme n'ayant pas été déclarées et l'infraction tombera sous l'application des articles 88 et 90 ci-après et sera punie des peines prévues aux dits articles.

Smuggling, etc.

ART. 87. Toute tentative ou tout

flagrant délit d'introduction , toute

tentative ou tout flagrant délit d'exportation en contrebande de

marchandises soumises au droit, soit par mer, soit par terre, seront

passibles de la confiscation des marchandises, sans préjudice des peines et amendes ci-dessous qui seront prononcées par la juridiction

Seizure, etc.

compétente. Seront en outre saisis et confis-

qués les moyens de transport par terre dans le cas où la contrebande
constituera la partie principale du chargement. Fines, at open ports. ART. 88. Toute tentative ou tout

flagrant délit d'introduction , toute tentative ou tout flagrant délit

d'exportation en contrebande par un port ouvert au commerce ou par un bureau de douane, seront

punis d'une amende ne dépassant pas le triple de la valeur des mar-

chandises, objet de la fraude, et d'un emprisonnement de cinq jours à six mois, ou de l'une des deux

peines seulement. Outside open ports. ART. 89. Toute tentative ou tout

flagrant délit d'introduction , toute tentative ou tout flagrant délit

ART. 84. If the declaration should be found inaccurate as to kind or quality , and the declarant is unable to prove his good faith, the merchandise wrongly declared shall be seized and confiscated by the proper authority for the benefit of the Maghzen.
ART. 85. If the declaration should be found inaccurate as to the declared value, and the declarant should be unable to prove his good faith, the customs may either levy the duty in kind, then and there, or, if the merchandise is indivisible, take the said merchandise by at once paying to the declarant its declared value, plus 5 per cent.
ART. 86. If the declaration should be found false as to the nature of the merchandise the latter shall be considered as not having been declared , and the offense shall fall under articles 88 and 90 hereinbelow, and shall be punished by the penalties provided for in the said articles.
ART. 87. The smuggling, flagrant or attempted, in or out of the country, by land or by sea, of merchandise subject to duty shall be punishable by confiscation of the merchandise, without prejudice to the penalties and fines hereinbelow, which shall be imposed by the proper jurisdiction .
In addition , the conveyances on shore shall be seized and confiscated when smuggled goods form the greater part of the load.
ART. 88. The smuggling, flagrant or attempted, in or out of the country, through a port open to commerce or through a customhouse, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed triple the value of the merchandise so smuggled and by imprisonment of from five days to six months, or by only one of these penalties.
ART. 89. The smuggling, flagrant or attempted , in or out of the country, outside of a port

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2935

d'exportation, en dehors d'un port open to commerce or of a custom-

ouvert au commerce ou d'un bureau de douane, seront punis d'une amende de trois cents à cinq cents

house , shall be punished by a fine of from 300 to 500 pesetas, and by an additional fine equal to three

pesetas et d'une amende supplémentaire égale à trois fois la valeur de la marchandise ou d'un emprisonnement d'un mois à un an.

times the value ofthe merchandise, or by imprisonment of from a month to a year.

ART. 90. Les complices des délits ART. 90. The accomplices in of- Accomplices. prévus aux articles 88 et 89 seront fenses as provided by articles 88

passibles des mêmes peines que les auteurs principaux . Les éléments caractérisant la complicité seront appréciés d'après la législation du tribunal saisi.
ART. 91. En cas de tentative ou

and 89 shall be liable to the same penalties as the principals. The elements constituting complicity shall be adjudged according to the law of the tribunal in charge of the case.
ART. 91. In the case of smug-

Attempt at smug-

flagrant délit d'importation, de tentative ou flagrant délit d'exportation de marchandises par un
navire en dehors d'un port ouvert au commerce, la douane marocaine pourra amener le navire au port le
plus proche pour être remis à l'autorité consulaire, laquelle
pourra le saisir et maintenir la

gling, flagrant or attempted , in or glingby vessels.
out of the country, by a vessel outside of a port open to com-
merce, the Moorish customs shall have the right to take such vessel
to the nearest port, to be turned Seizure.
over to the consular authority, and the said authority may seize and detain the vessel until it shall have

saisie jusqu'à ce qu'il ait acquitté le montant des condamnations prononcées.
La saisie du navire devra être

paid the amount of the penalties imposed.
The vessel shall be released at

Release.

levée, en tout état de l'instance, en tant que cette mesure n'entravera pas l'instruction judiciaire, sur consignation du montant maximum de l'amende entre les mains de l'autorité consulaire ou sous caution solvable de la payer acceptée par la douane.
ART. 92. Les dispositions des articles précédents seront applicables à la navigation de cabotage.
ART. 93. Les marchandises, non

any stage of the action, in so far as the preliminary judicial proceedings are not impeded thereby, upon deposit made with the consular authority of the maximum of the fine, or else under responsible bail accepted by the customs.
ART. 92. The provisions of the
preceding articles are also applicable to coasting vessels.
ART. 93. Such merchandise as

Coasting vessels. Export certificates.

soumises aux droits d'exportation , embarquées dans un port marocain pour être transportées par mer dans un autre port de l'Empire, devront être accompagnées d'un certificat de sortie délivré par la douane, sous peine d'être assujetties au paiement du droit d'importation et même confisquées si elles ne figuraient pas au manifeste.
ART. 94. Le transport par cabotage des produits soumis aux droits

is not subject to an export duty, shipped in a Moorish port to be transported by sea to some other port in the Empire, shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the customs, under penalty of being subjected to the payment of import duties, and even of being confiscated, if not entered in the manifest.
ART. 94. The transportation by coasting vessels of products sub-

Deposit of duties.

d'exportation ne pourra s'effectuer qu'en consignant au bureau de départ, contre quittance, le montant

ject to export duties can only be effected by depositing at the custom-house of the port of depar-

des droits d'exportation relatifs à ture the amount of export duties

ces marchandises.

on such merchandise and taking

receipt therefor .

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -7

2936

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Refund of deposit. Cette consignation sera rem- This money shall be returned to

boursée au déposant par le bureau où elle a été effectuée, sur production d'une déclaration revêtue par la douane de la mention d'arrivée

the depositor by the custom-house where it was deposited , on production of a declaration on which the customs certify the arrival of such

de la marchandise et de la quittance constatant le dépôt des droits. Les pièces justificatives de l'arrivée de la marchandise devront être produites dans les trois mois de l'ex-

merchandise and of the receipt for the deposit of the amount of the duties. The documents proving the arrival of the merchandise shall be produced within three

pédition. Passé ce délai , à moins months from the time of shipque le retard ne provienne d'un cas ment. After this term, unless

de force majeure, la somme con-
signée deviendra la propriété du Makhzen . Payment of duties. ART. 95. Les droits d'entrée et

the delay be a case of vis major, the amount deposited shall become the property of the Maghzen.
ART. 95. The import and export

de sortie seront payés au comptant duties shall be paid cash at the au bureau de douane où la fiqui- custom-house where liquidation. dation aura été effectuée . Les has been made . The ad valorem

Receipt.

droits ad valorem seront liquidés suivant la valeur au comptant et en gros de la marchandise rendue au bureau de douane , et franche de droits de douane et de magasinage. En cas d'avaries, il sera tenu compte, dans l'estimation , de la dépréciation subie par la marchandise. Les marchandises ne pourront être retirées qu'après le paiement des droits de douane et de magasinage.
Toute prise en charge ou per-

duties shall be liquidated according to the cash wholesale value of the merchandise delivered in the custom- house and free from customs duties and storage dues . Damages to the merchandise, if any, shall be taken into account in appraising the depreciation thereby caused. Merchandise can only be removed after the payment of customs duties and storage.
The holding of the goods or the

ception devra faire l'objet d'un récépissé régulier, délivré par l'agent chargé de l'opération .

collection of duty shall , in every case, be made the subject of a
regular receipt delivered by the officer in charge.

Appraisements.

ART. 96. La valeur des princi- ART. 96. The value of the chief

pales marchandises taxées par les Douanes marocaines sera déterminée chaque année, dans les conditions spécifiées à l'article précédent, par une Commission des va-

articles of merchandise dutiable in the Moorish customs is to be ap praised every year under the conditions specified in the foregoing article by a committee on customs

leurs douanières, réunie à Tanger et composée de: Committee on cus- 1. Trois membres désignés par toms. le Gouvernement marocain,
2.º Trois membres désignés par

valuations, meeting at Tangier , and consisting of-
1º. Three members appointed
by the Moorish Government. 2º. Three members appointed

le Corps Diplomatique à Tanger, by the Diplomatic Body at Tangier.

3.º Un délégué de la Banque 3º. One delegate of the State

d'Etat,

Bank.

4. Un agent de la Délégation de l'Emprunt marocain 5 % , 1904 .
La Commission nommera douze à vingt membres honoraires domi-

4°. One agent of the delegation of the 5 per cent Moroccan loan of 1904 .
This committee shall appoint from twelve to twenty honorary

ciliés au Maroc , qu'elle consultera members resident in Morocco, quand il s'agira de fixer les valeurs whom it shall consult when called

et toutes les fois qu'elle le jugera utile. Ces membres honoraires seront choisis sur les listes des no-

upon to determine the value , and whenever it may see fit. These honorary members shall be se-

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2937

tables, établies par chaque Léga- lected from the lists of notables

tion pour les étrangers et par le Représentant du Sultan pour les marocains. Ils seront désignés, autant que possible, proportionellement à l'importance du commerce de chaque nation.

drawn up in the case of foreign subjects by each legation , and in ' the case of Moors by the Sultan's representative . They shall be appointed as far as possible in proportion to the importance of the commerce of each nation .

La Commission sera nommée pour trois années.
Le tarif des valeurs fixées par elle servira de base aux estimations

The committee shall be appointed for the term of three years.
The schedule of values fixed by it shall serve as a basis for the

Schedule of values..

qui seront faites dans chaque bu- appraisals which the administrareau par l'administration des dou- tion of Moorish customs shall

anes marocaines. Il sera affiché make in every custom- house. It

dans les bureaux de douane et dans les chancelleries des Légations ou des Consulats à Tanger.

shall be posted at all customhouses and in the chanceries of
the legations and consulates at

Tangier.

Le tarif sera susceptible d'être The schedule may be revised at

révisé au bout de six mois, si des the end of six months in case of modifications notables sont surve- considerable changes in the values nues dans la valeur de certaines of certain articles.

marchandises. ART. 97. Un Comité permanent,
dit " Comité des douanes ", est ins-

Permanent com. ART. 97. A permanent commit- mittee. tee, to be known as the " Commit-

titué à Tanger et nommé pour tee of Customs, " shall be organized

trois années. Il sera composé d'un at Tangier and appointed for a

Commissaire spécial de Sa Majesté Chérifienne, d'un membre du Corps Diplomatique ou Consulaire désigné par le Corps Diplomatique

term of three years. It shall consist of a special commissioner of His Shereefian Majesty , of a member of the diplomatic or consular

à Tanger, et d'un délégué de la Banque d'Etat. Il pourra s'ad joindre, à titre consultatif, un ou

body appointed by the Diplomatic Body at Tangier, and of a delegate from the State Bank. It shall be

plusieurs représentants du service des Douanes.
Ce Comité exercera sa haute

empowered to add to its members, in an advisory capacity, one or more representatives of the customs service.
This committee shall exercise its

Duties.

surveillance sur le fonctionne-
ment des Douanes et pourra proposer à Sa Majesté Chérifienne les mesures qui seraient propres à apporter des améliorations dans le service et à assurer la régularité et le contrôle des opérations et perceptions (débarquements, embarquements, transport à terre, manipulations, entrées et sorties des marchandises, magasinage, estimation, liquidation et perception des taxes). Par la création du " Comité des douanes ", il ne sera porté aucune atteinte aux droits stipulés en faveur des porteurs de titres par les articles 15 et 16 du Contrat d'emprunt du 12 Juin 1904.

high supervision over the customs service, and shall have the right to propose to His Shereefian Majesty such measures as are likely to effect improvement in the service and assure the regularity and supervision of operations and collections ( landing, shipping, land transportation , handling, the incoming and outgoing of merchandise, storage, appraisal, liquidation and collection of duties). The
creation of such a Committee of Customs shall in no way infringe the rights stipulated in favor of the bondholders by articles 15 and 16 in the loan contract of June 12th, 1904 .

2938

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Warehouses.

Des instructions, élaborées par le Comité des douanes et les services intéressés, détermineront les détails de l'application de l'article 96 et du présent article. Elles seront soumises à l'avis du Corps Diplomatique.
ART. 98. Dans les douanes où il
existe des magasins suffisants , le service de la douane prend en
charge les marchandises débarquées à partir du moment où elles sont remises, contre récépissé, par le capitaine du bateau aux agents préposés à l'acconage jusqu'au moment où elles sont régulière ment dédouanées . Il est responsable des dommages causés par les pertes ou avaries de marchandise qui sont imputables à la faute ou
à la négligence de ses agents. Il n'est pas responsable des avaries résultant soit du dépérissement naturel de la marchandise, soit de son trop long séjour en magasin, soit des cas de force majeure.

Dans les douanes où il n'y a pas
de magasins suffisants, les agents du Makhzen sont seulement tenus d'employer les moyens de préservation dont dispose le bureau de la douane. Revision of storage Une révision du Règlement de regulations. magasinage, actuellement en vi-
gueur, sera effectuée par les soins du Corps Diplomatique statuant à
la majorité, de concert avec le Gouvernement chérifien .

Sale of confiscated ART. 99. Les marchandises et articles.
les moyens de transport à terre

confisqués seront vendus par les soins de la douane , dans un délai

de huit jours à partir du jugement définitif rendu par le tribunal

Proceeds.

compétent. ART. 100. Le produit net de la

vente des marchandises et objets

confisqués est acquis définitivement à l'Etat; celui des amendes pécu-

niaires, ainsi que le montant des transactions, seront, après déduction des frais de toute nature, ré-

partis entre le Trésor chérifien et

ceux qui auront participé à la répression de la fraude ou de la contrebande.

Un tiers à répartir par la douane entre les indicateurs ,

Instructions to be drawn up by the Committee of Customs and the services interested therein shall determine the details of the enforcement of article 96 and of the present article. They shall be submitted to the advice and consent of the Diplomatic Body.
ART. 98. In custom-houses where sufficient warehouses exist the customs service shall take charge of the disembarked merchandise as soon as it is turned over by the captain of the vessel to the officers in charge of the lighterage, who shall receipt therefor, and until such time as it shall have been regularly cleared from the customs. The customs service is responsible for injuries caused by loss of or damage to merchandise which may be imputed to the fault or negligence of its officers. It is not responsible for damages resulting either from the natural decay of merchandise, or from too lengthy a storage in the warehouse, or from cases of vis major.
In custom-houses where there are not sufficient warehouses the agents of the Maghzen are required only to employ such means of preservation as may be at the disposal of the custom-house.
A revision of the storage regulations now in force shall be made under the direction of the Diplomatic Body , whose decisions shall be taken by a majority vote, in concert with the Shereefian Government.'
ART. 99. Confiscated merchandise and conveyances shall be sold
under direction of the customs service within eight days from the date of final judgment rendered by the competent tribunal.
ART. 100. The net proceeds of the sale of confiscated merchandise and articles become the final property of the State; as to pecuniary fines and compromises thereof, the amount, after deduction of costs of all kinds, shall be divided between the Shereefian Treasury and those who have participated in the repression of fraud or smuggling :
One-third to be distributed by the customs among the informants,

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906 .

2939

Un tiers aux agents ayant saisi la marchandise,
Un tiers au Trésor marocain.

One-third to the officers who have seized the goods,
One-third to the Moorish Treas-

ury .

Si la saisie a été opérée sans If the seizure has been made

l'intervention d'un indicateur, la without the intervention of an in-

moitié des amendes sera attribuée aux agents saisissants et l'autre moitié au Trésor marocain.
ART. 101. Les autorités douanières marocaines devront signaler

formant, one-half the fine shall be awarded to the officers making the seizure and the other half to the Moorish Treasury.
ART. 101. The Moorish customs erVsi. olation by foreignauthorities shall directly inform

directement aux agents diploma- the diplomatic or consular agents

tiques ou consulaires les infrac- of any violations of this regulation tions au présent règlement commi- which may have been committed

ses par leurs ressortissants, afin que ceux-ci soient poursuivis devant la juridiction compétente .
Les mêmes infractions, commi-

by those under their jurisdiction , in order that they may be prosecuted before the competent court.
Similar violations by Moorish

ses par des sujets marocains, seront subjects shall be brought directly

déférées directement par la douane à l'autorité chérienne.
Un délégué de la douane sera

by the customs before the Shereefian authority.
A delegate of the customs shall

chargé de suivre la procédure des affaires pendantes devant les diverses juridictions.
ART. 102. Toute confiscation,
amende, ou pénalité, devra être prononcée pour les étrangers par

be charged to follow the legal proceedings in cases pending before the several jurisdictions.
ART. 102. Every confiscation , alItimepso. sition of penfine, or penalty must be imposed on foreigners by consular jurisdic-

la juridiction consulaire et pour les sujets marocains par la juridiction Chérifienne.
ART. 103. Dans la région frontière de l'Algérie, l'application du présent règlement restera l'affaire exclusive de la France et du Maroc ;
De même, l'application de ce règlement dans le Riff et, en gé-

tion, and on Moorish subjects by Shereefian jurisdiction .
ART. 103. In the region border- tieOrn. Algerian froning on Algeria the enforcement of these regulations shall be the exclusive concern of France and Morocco .
The enforcement of these regu- Spanish frontier. lations in the Riff and in general

néral, dans les régions frontières in the regions bordering on the des Possesions espagnoles, restera Spanish possessions shall likewise

l'affaire exclusive de l'Espagne et du Maroc .
ART. 104. Les dispositions du présent règlement, autres que

be the exclusive concern of Spain and Morocco .
ART. 104. The provisions of the present regulations, other than

Revision.

celles qui s'appliquent aux pénali- those relating to penalties, may be tés, pourront être révisées par le revised by unanimous decision of

Corps Diplomatique à Tanger, the Diplomatic Body at Tangier statuant à l'unanimité des voix, et and in accord with the Maghzen,

d'accord avec le Makhzen, à l'ex- at the expiration of a term of two

piration d'un délai de deux ans à years from the date of their taking

dater de son entrée en vigueur.

effect.

CHAPITRE VI

CHAPTER VI. the

Déclaration relative aux services publics et aux travaux publics.
ART. 105. En vue d'assurer l'application du principe de la liberté économique sans aucune inégalité,

Public services and A declaration relative to public works.
services and public works.
Nonalienation of ART. 105. With a view to assur- public services, etc.
ing the application of the principle of economic liberty without any

2938

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Des instructions, élaborées par le Comité des douanes et les services intéressés , détermineront les

Instructions to be drawn up by the Committee of Customs and the services interested therein shall

détails de l'application de l'article determine the details of the en96 et du présent article. Elles forcement of article 96 and of the

Warehouses.

seront soumises à l'avis du Corps Diplomatique.qni od or nothing
Doitan dogs to outermos ART. 98. Dans les douanes où il
existe des magasins suffisants , le

present article. They shall be submitted to the advice and consent of the Diplomatic Body.dase
ART. 98. In custom -houses where
sufficient warehouses exist the cus-

service de la douane prend en toms service shall take charge of charge les marchandises débar- the disembarked merchandise as

Revision of regulations.

quées à partir du moment où elles

sont remises, contre récépissé, par

le capitaine du bateau aux agents préposés à l'acconage jusqu'au moment où elles sont régulière-

ment dédouanées . Il est responsable des dommages causés par les pertes ou avaries de marchandise

qui sont imputables à la faute ou à la négligence de ses agents. Il

n'est pas responsable des avaries résultant soit du dépérissement naturel de la marchandise, soit de

son trop long séjour en magasin,

soit des cas de force majeure. 991 sot botniogge bin toigne in

Dans les douanes où il n'y a pas de magasins suffisants, les agents du Makhzen sont seulement tenus

d'employer les moyens de préservation dont dispose le bureau de la douane.to ban torgel in bed

storage Une révision du Règlement de magasinage, actuellement en vi-

gueur, sera effectuée par les soins du Corps Diplomatique statuant à

la majorité, de concert avec le

Gouvernement chérifien.

T

soon as it is turned over by the captain of the vessel to the officers in charge of the lighterage, who shall receipt therefor, and until such time as it shall have been regularly cleared from the customs. The customs service is responsible for injuries caused by loss of or damage to merchandise which may be imputed to the fault or negligence of its officers. It is not responsible for damages resulting either from the natural decay of merchandise, or from too lengthy a storage in the warehouse, or from cases of vis major.
In custom-houses where there are not sufficient warehouses the agents of the Maghzen are required only to employ such means of preservation as may be at the disposal of the custom- house. o A revision of the storage regulations now in force shall be made under the direction of the Diplo matic Body, whose decisions shal
be taken by a majority vote, in concert with the Shereefian Go

modems and 197o notaly toque did

Sale of confiscated ART. 99. Les marchandises et

articles.

les moyens de transport à terre

confisqués seront vendus par les

soins de la douane, dans un délai

de huit jours à partir du jugement

définitif rendu par le tribunal

ernment. ART. 99. Confiscated merch

dise and conveyances shall he

under direction of the cust

service within eight days from

date of

judgment rendere

the cent tribunal

Proceeds.

compétent.

nibuel) otto

ART. 100. Le produit net de la vente des marchandises et objets th

The net

confisqués est acquis définitivement

à l'Etat; celui des amendes pécn-

niaires, ainsi que le montant d

transactions, seront, après déd

tion des frais de toute nature

partis entre le Trésor chéris

ceux qui auront particip pression de la fraud contrebande.
Un tiers à douane entre les

GENERAL ACT-MOROCOL B

2941

Un tiers aux agents ayant s la marchandise,
Un tiers au Trésor marocain.

ded to
uning shal

Si la saisie a été opérée l'intervention d'un indicateur, in

filling eneral

moitié des amendes sera attribuée Tous aux agents saisissants et autre moitié au Trésor marocain.

articles to conforests,

Cork forests.

ART. 101. Les autorités donenières marocaines devront signaler

stomary

directement aux agents diplomete tiques ou consulaires les infnetions au présent règlement comm

In firman Mines and quarries. itions of

ses par leurs ressortissants, f que ceux-ci soient poursuivis Be vant la juridiction compétente.

orking of the com-
Sheree-

Les mêmes infractions, com ses par des sujets marocains ont

guided to such

déférées directement par ladouse à l'autorité cherinenne.
Un délégué de la doune

es men- Expropriation of property.
112 it

chargé de suivre la procédured affaires pendantes devant les verses juridictions.

occupy opriation ious pay-

ART. 102. Toute comfiin

ty, in con-

amende, ou pénalité, de

g rules:

prononcée pour les étranger la juridiction consulaire les sujets marocains pr diction Chérifienne.
ART. 103. Dans la re
tière de l'Algérie, Tappin présent règlement rester exclusive de la F

THA priation can Ascertainment of
necessity. the ground of when necessity have been ascer-
iministrative inves-
formalities of which
rmined by Shereefian

Maroc; De même, En Game

us drawn up with the of the Diplomatic Body.

règlement dane néral, dans les

115. If the property hold- suPbrjoecptesr.ty of Moorish re Moorish subjects, His

des Possesion

cefian Majesty shall take the

l'affaire exclus

essary measures, that no hin-

du Maroc. ART. 104.
présent rep celles qui s'a tés, pourron

édé mière

drance shall impede the execution of works that he shall have declared

to be of public utility.

10913

ART. 116. If the owners are for- ersP.roperty of foreign-

eigners the method of expropria-

tion shall be as follows:

tre l'adet le prole à exprofixée par un y a lieu, par
ry sera composé nateurs, choisis
aire, trois par poursuivra

 In case of disagreement between the competent administration and the owner of the property to be expropriated, the indemnity shall be fixed by a special jury, or, if the occasion arises, by arbitration.
ART. 117. This jury shall be composed of six expert appraisers, three to be selected by the owner, three by the administration desir-

Appraisal.

2940

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

les Puissances signataires décla- inequality, the Signatory Powers

rent qu'aucun des services publics declare that none of the public

de l'Empire Chérifien ne pourra services in the Shereefian Empire

être aliéné au profit d'intérêts particuliers.
Reservation of au- ART. 106. Dans le cas où le thority.
Gouvernement chérifien croirait

can be alienated for the advantage of private interests .
ART. 106. In case the Shereefian Government should invoke the aid

devoir faire appel aux capitaux of foreign capital or foreign indusétrangers ou à l'industrie étran- try for the working of public serv-

gère pour l'exploitation de services ices or for the operation of public

publics ou pour l'exécution de works, roads, railways, ports, teltravaux publics, routes, chemins egraphs, and other public works ,

de fer, ports, télégraphes et autres, the Signatory Powers reserve to les Puissances signataires se ré- themselves the right to see to it

servent de veiller à ce que l'au- that the authority of the State

Concessions.

torité de l'Etat sur ces grandes entreprises d'intérêt général demeure entière.
ART. 107. La validité des con-

over these great enterprises of general interest remains entire .
ART. 107. The validity of the

cessions qui seraient faites aux termes de l'article 106 ainsi que pour les fournitures d'Etat sera

concessions which may be made under the terms of article 106, as well as for Government supplies,

subordonnée, dans tout l'Empire shall, throughout the Shereefian

chérifien, au principe de l'adjudi- Empire, be subordinated to the cation publique, sans acception de principle of public awards on pro-

nationalité, pour toutes les matières
qui, conformément aux règles sui-
vies dans les législations étran-
gères, en comportent l'application. Noticetodiplomatic ART. 108. Le Gouvernement body.
chérifien, dès qu'il aura décidé de

posals, without preference of nationality, whenever applicable under the rules followed in foreign laws.
ART. 108. As soon as the She-
reefian Government shall have

procéder par voie d'adjudication à decided to invite proposals for l'exécution des travaux publics , en execution of public works, it shall

fera part au Corps Diplomatique;
etcS.ubmission of plans, il lui communiquera, par la suite, les cahiers des charges, plans, et tous les documents annexés au

so inform the Diplomatic Body. It shall later communicate to it the plans, specifications, and all documents annexed to the call for

projet d'adjudication , de manière proposals, in order to enable the que les nationaux de toutes les nationals of all the Signatory Puissances signataires puissent se Powers to form a clear idea of the

rendre compte des travaux projetés contemplated works and compete et être à même d'y concourir. Un for the same. A sufficient term

Free competition.

délai suffisant sera fixé à cet effet par l'avis d'adjudication.
ART. 109. Le cahier des charges ne devra contenir, ni directement ni indirectement, aucune condition

for this shall be specified in the call for proposals.
ART. 109. The specifications shall not contain , either directly or indirectly , any condition or

ou disposition qui puisse porter atteinte à la libre concurrence et mettre en état d'infériorité les

provision which may be prejudicial to free competition and which may give advantage to competitors

concurrents d'une nationalité visà-vis des concurrents d'une autre " nationalité . Award of contracts. ART, 110. Les adjudications se-
ront passées dans les formes et
suivant les conditions générales prescrites par un règlement que le Gouvernement chérifien arrêtera

of one nationality over those of another nationality.
ART. 110. The contracts shall be awarded in the form and according to the general conditions prescribed by the regulations which the Shereefian Government shall

avec l'assistance du Corps Diplo matique.

draw up with the assistance of the Diplomatic Body.

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO . APRIL 7, 1906.

2941

L'adjudication sera prononcée par le Gouvernement chérifien en faveur du soumissionnaire qui, en se conformant aux prescriptions du cahier des charges, présentera l'offre remplissant les conditions générales les plus avantageuses.
ART. 111. Les règles des articles 106 à 110 seront appliquées aux concessions d'exploitation de forêts de chênes-lièges, conformément aux dispositions en usage dans les législations étrangères .
ART. 112. Un firman chérifien déterminera les conditions de con-

The contracts shall be awarded by the Shereefian Government to the bidder who, while conforming himself to the specifications , shall have submitted the bid fulfilling the most advantageous general conditions.
ART. 111. The rules of articles 106 to 110 shall be applied to concessions for working cork forests, in accordance with the customary provisions in foreign laws.
ART. 112. The Shereefian firman shall determine the conditions of

Cork forests. Mines and quarries.

cession et d'exploitations des mines, minières et carrières. Dans l'élaboration de ce firman , le Gou-

the concessions and the working of mines and quarries. In the composition of this firman the Sheree-

vernement chérifien s'inspirera des législations étrangères existant sur la matière.
ART. 113. Si , dans les cas mentionnés aux articles 106 à 112, il était nécessaire d'occuper certains immeubles, il pourra être procédé à leur expropriation moyennant le versement préalable d'une juste indemnité et conformément aux règles suivantes.
ART. 114. L'expropriation ne pourra avoir lieu que pour cause d'utilité publique et qu'autant que la nécessité, en aura été constatée par une enquête administrative dont un règlement chérifien , éla boré avec l'assistance du Corps Diplomatique, fixera les formalités.
ART. 115. Si les propriétaires d'immeubles sont sujets maro-

fian Government shall be guided by foreign laws relating to such matters .
ART. 113. If in the cases men- Expropriation of property .
tioned in articles 106 to 112 it
should become necessary to occupy certain property, its expropriation
may be effected by previous payment of a fair indemnity, in conformity to the following rules:

ART. 114. Expropriation can Ascertainment of necessity.
only be effected on the ground of

public utility and when necessity for the same shall have been ascer-

tained by any administrative inves-

tigation, the formalities of which

shall be determined by Shereefian

regulations draw up with the

assistance of the Diplomatic Body.

ART.

115.

If the property hold-

Property of Moorish subjects.

er's are Moorish subjects, His

cains , Sa Majesté Chérifienne pren- Shereefian Majesty shall take the dra les mesures nécessaires pour necessary measures, that no hin-

qu'aucun obstacle ne soit apporté · drance shall impede the execution à l'exécution des travaux qu' Elle of works that he shall have declared

aura déclarés d'utilité publique.

to be of public utility.

ART. 116. S'il s'agit de proprié-

ART. 116.

If

the

owners

are

for-

Property ers .

of foreign-

taires étrangers, il sera procédé eigners the method of expropriaà l'expropriation de la manière tion shall be as follows : suivante :

En cas de désaccord entre l'ad- In case of disagreement between

ministration compétente et le pro- the competent administration and

priétaire de l'immeuble à exproprier, l'indemnité sera fixée par un jury spécial , ou , s'il y a lieu, par arbitrage.
ART. 117. Ce jury sera composé

the owner of the property to be expropriated, the indemnity shall be fixed by a special jury, or, if the occasion arises, by arbitration.
ART. 117. This jury shall be

Appraisal.

de six experts estimateurs, choisis trois par le propriétaire , trois par l'administration qui poursuivra

composed of six expert appraisers , three to be selected by the owner, three by the administration desir-

2942

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7 , 1906.

l'expropriation . L'avis de la majorité absolue prévaudra.
S'il ne peut se former de majo-

ing to expropriate. A majority vote shall rule.
If there be no majority, the

rité, le propriétaire et l'adminis- owner and the administration shall tration nommeront chacun un ar- each appoint au arbitrator, and the

bitre et ces deux arbitres désigneront le tiers arbitre.
A défaut d'entente pour la dés-

two arbitrators shall name an umpire.
In case no agreement can be

Arbitrators.

ignation du tiers arbitre, ce dernier sera nommé par le Corps Diplomatique à Tanger.
ART. 118. Les arbitres devront

reached in selecting an umpire he shall be appointed by the Diplomatic Body at Tangier.
ART. 118. The arbitrators shall

être choisis sur une liste établie au be selected from a list drawn up

Appeals.

début de l'année par le Corps Diplomatique et, autant que possible, parmi les experts ne résidant pas dans la localité où s'exécute le  travail.
ART. 119. Le propriétaire pourra

at the beginning of each year by the Diplomatic Body, and they.
shall be selected , as far as possible, from experts not living within the district in which the work is to be
· carried out.
ART. 119. The owner may ap-

faire appel de la décision rendue par les arbitres, devant la juridiction compétente, et conformément aux règles fixées en matière d'arbitrage par la législation à laquelle il ressortit .

peal from the arbitrators' decision to a competentjurisdiction, and in accordance with the rules set for arbitration cases by the law of the country to which he belongs.

CHAPITRE VII

CHAPTER VII .

General provisions.

Dispositions générales.

Legislation by sig- ART. 120. En vue de mettre , s'il natory powers.
y a lieu, sa législation en harmonie

General provisions. ART. 120. With a view to harmonizing its legislation , if the

avec les engagements contractés occasion arises, with the engage-

par le présent Acte Général, cha- ments contracted under the prescune des Puissances signataires ent General Act, each of the Sig-

Ratification.

s'oblige à provoquer, en ce qui la concerne, l'adoption des mesures législatives qui seraient nécessaires.
ART. 121. Le présent Acte Général sera ratifié suivant les lois constitutionnelles particulières à chaque Etat ; les ratifications seront

natory Powers engages to take the necessary steps leading to the enactment of such legislation as may be necessary so far as it is concerned.
ART. 121. The present General Act shall be ratified according to the constitutional laws of each state. The ratifications shall be

Certification.

déposées à Madrid le plus tôt que faire se pourra, et au plus tard le trente et un Décembre mille neuf cent six .
Il sera dressé dudépôt un procès-

deposited at Madrid as soon as practicable, and at the latest by December thirty - first, one thousand nine hundred and six.
A procès verbal shall be made

verbal dont une copie certifiée con- of such deposit and a certified forme sera remise aux Puissances copy sent to each of the Signatory

Effect.

signataires par la voie diplomatique .
ART. 122. Le présent Acte Général entrera en vigueur le jour où toutes les ratifications auront été

Powers through the diplomatic channel.
ART. 122. The present General Act shall enter into effect as soon as all the ratifications shall have

déposées, et au plus tard le trente et un Décembre mille neuf cent six .

Stipulations subject to legislation.

Au cas où les mesures législa-

tives spéciales qui dans certains

been deposited , and at the latest on December thirty - first , one thousand nine hundred and six.
In case the special legislative measures which may be necessary

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2943

pays seraient nécessaires pour as- in certain countries to insure the

surer l'application àleurs nationaux application to their nationals liv-

résidant au Maroc de quelques- ing in Morocco of certain stipuunes des stipulations du présent lations of this present General Act

Acte général , n'auraient pas été shall not have been enacted bythe adoptées avant la date fixée pour date fixed for ratification, these

la ratification, ces stipulations ne stipulations shall only become apdeviendraient applicables, en ce plicable in respect to them after

qui les concerne, qu'après que les mesures législatives ci-dessus visées auraient été promulguées.
ART. 123 et dernier. Tous les

the legislative measures above referred to shall have been promulgated .
ART. 123 and last. All treaties,

Former treaties.

traités, conventions et arrange- conventions, and arrangements of

ments des Puissances signataires the Signatory Powers with Mo-

avec le Maroc restent en vigueur. rocco remain in force. It is un- Conflicting provi. Toutefois , il est entendu qu'en cas derstood, however, that in case of sions.

de conflit entre leurs dispositions conflict between their provisions et celles du présent Acte Général, and those of the present General

les stipulations de ce dernier prévaudront.
En foi de quoi, les Délégués

Act, the stipulations of. the latter shall prevail.
In faith whereof the Delegates

Signatures.

Plénipotentiaires ont signé le pré- Plenipotentiary have signed the

sent Acte Général et y ont apposé present General Act and have

leur cachet.

affixed their seals thereto.

Fait à Algeciras le septième jour d'Avril mille neuf cent six, en un seul exemplaire qui restera déposé dans les archives du Gouvernement

Done at Algeciras this seventh day of April, one thousand nine hundred and six , in a single copy, which shall remain deposited in

de Sa Majesté Catholique et dont the archives of the Government of

des copies certifiées conformes seront remises par la voie diplomatique aux Puissances signataires.
Pour l'Allemagne :

His Catholic Majesty , and of which certified copies shall be transmitted through the diplomatic channel to the Signatory Powers. For Germany:

[ L. S. ] RADOWITZ . [L. S. TATTENBACH. Pour l'Autriche- Hongrie :

[ L. S.] JOSEPH DE RADOWITZ [L. S. TATTENBACH For Austria- Hungary :

[ L. S. ] WELSERSHEIMB . [L. S. BOLESTA- KoZIEBRODZKI
Pour la Belgique ; [ L. S. ] JOOSTENS . [ L. S. ] COMTE CONRAD DE BUISSERET.
Pour l'Espagne : [L. 8. ] EL DUQUE DE ALMODÓVAR DEL Rí.

[ L. S. ] WELSERSHEIMB [ L. S. BOLESTA- KOZIE BROD-
ZKI For Belgium :
[L. S. ] JOOSTENS [ L. S. ] COMTE CONRAD DE
BUISSERET
For Spain: [L. S. ] EL DUQUE DE ALMODÓVAR DEL Río

[ L. S. ] J. PÉREZ- CABALLERO. Pourles Etats-Unis d'Amérique: Sous réserve de la déclaration faite
en séance plénière de la Conférence le 7 Avril 1906 .

[L. S. ] J. PÉREZ- CABALLERO For the United States of America,
with reservation of the declaration made in the plenary session of the conference on April 7, 1906:

[L. 8. ] HENRY White. [L. S. SAMUEL R. GUMMERÉ. Pour la France:

[ L. S. ] HENRY WHITE
[ L. S. ] SAMUEL R. GUMMERÉ For France :

[ L. S. ] RÉVOIL . [L. S. REGNAULT. Pour la Grande Bretagne :

[L. S. ] RÉVOIL L. S. REGNAULT
For Great Britain:

[L. S. ] A. NICOLSON.

[ L. S. ] A. NICOLSON

2944

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Pour l'Italie : [ L. S. ] VISCONTI VENOSTA. [L. S. ] G. MALMUSI .
Pour le Maroc :

For Italy :
[ L. S. ] VISCONTI VENOSTA [ L. S. ] G. MALMUSI For Morocco:

Pour les Pays - Bas : [L. S.] H. TESTA.
Pour le Portugal:

[L. S. ] CONDE DE TOVAR. [ L. S. ] CONDE DE MARTENS
FERRÃO .
Pour la Russie :

[ L. S. ] CASSINI. L. S. BASILE BACHERACHT.
Pour la Suède :

[L. S. ] ROBERT SAGER .

Pour copie certifiée conforme,

Le Sous - Secrétaire d'Etat.

[SEAL . ]

E. DE OJEDA

For the Netherlands : [ L. S. ] H. TESTA
For Portugal : [L. S. ] CONDE DE TOVAR [L. S. ] CONDE DE MARTENS FERRAO
For Russia : [L. S.] CASSINI L. S. BASILE DE BACHERACHT
For Sweden: [ L. S. ] ROBERT Sager

PROTOCOLE ADDITIONNEL

ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL.

Additional protocol. Au moment de procéder à la

signature de l'Acte général de la

Conférence d'Algeciras, les Délé

gués d'Allemagne, d'Autriche-

Hongrie, de Belgique, d'Espagne,

des Etats- Unis d'Amérique, de

France, de la Grande- Bretagne,

d'Italie, des Pays- Bas , de Portugal ,

de Russie et de Suède,

SignaturesofMoroc- Tenant compte de ce que les can delegates with-

held.

Délégués du Maroc ont déclaré ne

pas être en mesure pour le mo-

ment, d'y apposer leur signature,

l'éloignement ne leur permettant pas d'obtenir à bref délai la réponse

de Sa Majesté Chérifienne concer-

nant les points au sujet desquels ils ont cru devoir Lui en référer ,

Enforcement of re-

forms, etc.

S'engagent réciproquement, en

vertu de leurs mêmes pleins pou-

voirs , à unir leurs efforts, en vue

de la ratification intégrale par Sa Majesté Chérifienne du dit Acte Général et en vue de la mise en

vigueur simultanée des réformes
qui y sont prévues et qui sont solidaires les unes des autres.
Notice of stipula- Ils conviennent, en conséquence, tions to Sultan.
de charger Son Excellence M. Malmusi, Ministre d'Italie au

Maroc et Doyen du Corps Diplomatique à Tanger, de faire les démarches nécessaires à cet effet, en appelant l'attention de Sa Majesté le Sultan sur les grands avan-

On the point of signing the General Act of the Conference of Algeciras, the delegates of Germany, Austria- Hungary, Belgium, Spain, the United States of America, France, Great Britain , Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal , Russia, and Sweden.
Taking into account the declaration of the delegates of Morocco that they were not, for the present, in position to affix their signatures thereto, they being unable, owing to the distance, to receive an early reply from His Shereefian Majesty concerning the points in regard to which they deemed it their duty to refer to Him,
Reciprocally engage, by virtue of their respective full powers , to unite their efforts towards the rati-
fication of the said General Act in its entirety by His Shereefian Majesty and towards the simultaneous enforcement of the reforms therein provided which are interdependent.
They therefore agree to charge His Excellency Mr. Malmusi, Minister of Italy to Morocco and Dean of the Diplomatic Corps at Tangier, to take the necessary steps to that end by calling the attention of His Majesty the Sultan to the great advantages that His Empire would

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

2945

tages qui résulteront pour Son Em- derive from the stipulations pire des stipulations adoptées à la adopted at the conference by the

Conférence par l'unanimité des Puissances signataires.
L'adhésion donnée par Sa Majesté Chérifienne à l'Acte Général

unanimous action of the Signatory Powers.
The adhesion given by His She- Notice of adhesio to signatory powers.
reefian Majesty to the General

de la Conférence d'Algeciras devra Act of the Conference of Algeciras

être communiquée, par l'intermé- shall be communicated through diaire du Gouvernement de Sa the Government of His Catholic

Majesté Catholique, aux Gouvernements des autres Puissances signataires. Cette adhésion aura

Majesty to the Governments of the other Signatory Powers. This adhesion shall have the same force

la même force que si les Délégués as if the delegates of Morocco had

du Maroc eussent apposé leur si affixed their signatures to the gnature sur l'Acte Général et tien- General Act and will take the

dra lieu de ratification par Sa Ma jesté Chérifienne.
En foi de quoi , les Délégués

place of ratification by His Shereefian Majesty.
In witness whereof, the dele-

Signatures.

d'Allemagne, d'Autriche- Hongrie, gates of Germany, Austria- Hunde Belgique, d'Espagne, des Etats- gary, Belgium, Spain, the United

Unis d'Amérique, de France, de States of America, France, Great la Grande -Bretagne, d'Italie, des Britain, Italy, the Netherlands ,

Pays- Bas, de Portugal, de Russie et de Suède, ont signé le présent Protocole additionnel et y ont apposé leur cachet.
Fait à Algeciras, le septième jour d'Avril, mille neuf cent six,

Portugal, Russia , and Sweden have signed the present additional protocol and affixed their seals thereto .
Done at Algeciras on the
seventh day of April, one thou

en un seul exemplaire qui restera déposé dans les archives du Gouvernement de Sa Majesté Catholique et dont des copies, certifiés conformes, seront remises , par la

sand nine hundred and six, in a single copy, which shall remain filed in the archives of the Government of His Catholic Majesty, and of which certified copies shall

voie diplomatique, aux Puissances signataires.

be delivered to the Signatory Powers through the diplomatic channel.

Pour l'Allemagne : [L. 8. ] RADOWITZ. [L. S. TATTENBACH .
Pour l'Autriche - Hongrie: [ L. S. WELSERSHEIMB. L. S. BOLESTA- KOZIEBRODZKI .
Pour la Belgique: [L. S. ] JOOSTENS. [ L. S. COMTE CONRAD DE BUISSERET .
Pour l'Espagne :
[L. S. ] EL DUQUE DE ALMODÓVAR DEL RÍO.
[L. S. ] J. PÉREZ -CABALLERO. Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amérique :
Sous réserve de la déclaration faite
en séance plénière de la Conférence le 7 Avril 1906.
[L. S. ] HENRY WHITE . [ L. S. SAMUEL R. GUMMERÉ. Pour la France:
[ L. S. ] RÉVOIL. [L. S. ] REGNAULT.

For Germany: [ L. S. ] JOSEPH DE RADOWITZ L. S.] TATTENBACH
For Austria- Hungary : [ L. S. ] WELSERSHEIMB [L. 8. ] BOLESTA-KOZIEBRODZKI
For Belgium : [ L. S.] JOOSTENS [ L. S. COMTE CONRAD DE BUISSERET
For Spain: [L. 8. ] EL DUQUE DE ALMODÓVAR DEL Río
[ L. S. ] J. PÉREZ - CABALLERO For the United States of Amer-
ica, with reservation of the declaration made in the plenary session of the conference on April 7, 1906 :
[ L. S. HENRY WHITE L. 8. SAMUEL R. GUMMERÉ For France : [ L. S. ] . RÉVOIL [L. S. ] REGNAULT

2946

GENERAL ACT- MOROCCO. APRIL 7, 1906.

Pour la Grande- Bretagne :
[L. S. ] A. NICOLSON. Pour l'Italie :
[L. S. ] VISCONTI VENOSTA. [[L.. S..] GV.ISMCAONLTMIUSI.

For Great Britain: [L. S. ] A. NICOLSON
For Italy:
[L. S. ] VISCONTI VENOSTA [L. 8. ] G. Malmusi For Morocco:

Pour les Pays- Bas:

[L. S. ] H. TESTA. Pour le Portugal :
[ L. S. ] CONDE DE TOVAR. L. S. CONDE DE MARTENS FERRÃO .
Pour la Russie :

[ L. S. ] CASSINI . [ L. S. ] BASILE BASHERACHT. Pour la Suède :

[ L. S. ] ROBERT Sager.

Pour copie certifiée conforme, Le Sous-Secrétaire d'Etat,

[ SEAL ]

E. DE OJEDA

For the Netherlands : [ L. 8. ] H. TESTA
For Portugal : [L. S. ] CONDE DE TOVAR [L. S.] CONDE DE MARTENS FERRAO
For Russia:
[L. S. ]. CASSINI L. S. BASILE DE BACHERACHT
For Sweden: [ L. S. ] ROBERT SAGER

Preamble.

And whereas the said General Act and Additional Protocol were

signed by the Plenipotentiaries of the United States of America under.

Disclaimer of polit- reservation of the following declaration :

ical interest by United "The Government of the United States of America, having no

States.

political interest in Morocco and no desire or purpose having animated

it to take part in this conference other than to secure for all peoples

the widest equality of trade and privilege with Morocco and to facili-

tate the institution of reforms in that country tending to insure com-

plete cordiality of intercourse without and stability of administration within for the common good, declares that, in acquiescing in the regu-

lations and declarations of the conference, in becoming a signatory to

the General Act of Algeciras and to the Additional Protocol , subject

to ratification according to constitutional procedure, and in accepting the application of those regulations and declarations to American citi-

zens and interests in Morocco, it does so without assuming obligation or responsibility for the enforcement thereof. "

And whereas, in giving its advice and consent to the ratification of the said General Act and Additional Protocol the Senate of the

United States resolved, " as a part of. this act of ratification, that the

Senate understands that the participation of the United States in the Algeciras Conference, and in the formulation and adoption of the General Act and Protocol which resulted therefrom, was with the sole

purpose of preserving and increasing its commerce in Morocco , the

protection as to life , liberty and property of its citizens residing or traveling therein , and of aiding by its friendly offices and efforts in

removing friction and controversy which seemed to menace the peace

between the powers signatory with the United States to the treaty of 1880 , all of which are on terms of amity with this government; and

without purpose to depart from the traditional American foreign policy which forbids participation by the United States in the settle-

ment of political questions which are entirely European in their scope. "
And whereas, the said General Act and Additional Protocol were

duly ratified by the Governments of the United States of America

and of the other powers aforesaid, and by His Majesty the Sultan of Morocco:

And whereas in pursuance of Article 121 of the said General Act, the ratifications of the said General Act and Additional Protocol of

GENERAL ACT-MOROCCO . APRIL 7, 1906.

2947

all the signatory powers were deposited with the Government of His Majesty, the King of Spain, on December 31 , 1906, thereby constituting a valid exchange of the ratifications thereof;
Now, therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America , have caused the said General Act and Additional Protocol to be made public to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof, subject to the reservation made in the aforesaid Declaration of the Plenipotentiaries of the United States and to the Resolution of the Senate.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be hereunto affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this twenty- second day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
[SEAL] seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President: ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

Proclamation.

2948

CONVENTION-GREAT BRITAIN. APRIL 21 , 1906.

April 21, 1906.

Convention between the United States and Great Britain providing for
the surveying and marking out uponthe ground of the 141st degree of west longitude where said meridian forms the boundary line between Alaska and the British Possessions in North America. Signed at Washington April 21, 1906; ratification advised by the Senate April 25, 1906; ratified by the President July 10, 1906; ratified by Great Britain June 9, 1906; ratifications exchanged at Washington August
16, 1906; proclaimed August 21, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA .

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.
Vol. 27, p. 955. Vol. 28, p. 1200. Vol. 32, p. 1961

Whereas a Convention between the United States of America
and His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor

of India, providing for the surveying and marking out upon the ground of the 141st degree of West Longitude where said meridian forms the boundary line between Alaska and the possessions in

America of His Britannic Majesty, was concluded and signed by

Vol. 15, p. 539.

their respective Plenipotentiaries at Washington , on the twentyfirst day of April, one thousand nine hundred and six, the original of which Convention is word for word as follows :
Whereas by a treaty between the United States of America and His Majesty the Emperor of all the Russias, for the cession of the Russian possessions in North America to the United States , concluded March 30, 1867 , the most northerly part of the boundary line between the said Russian possessions and those of His Britannic Majesty, as established by the prior convention between Russia and Great Britain, of February 28/16 , 1825, is defined as following the 141st degree of longitude west from Greenwich, beginning at the point of intersection of the said 141st degree of west longitude with a certain line drawn parallel with the coast, and thence continuing from the said point of intersection, upon the said meridion of the 141st degree in its prolongation as far as the Frozen Ocean
And whereas, the location of said meridian of the 141st degree

of west longitude between the terminal points thereof defined in

said treaty, is dependent upon the scientific ascertainment of convenient points along the said meridian and the survey of the country

intermediate between such points, involving no question of interpretation of the aforesaid treaties but merely the determination of

such points and their connecting lines by the ordinary processes of observation and survey conducted by competent astronomers , engineers and surveyors ;

And whereas such determination has not hitherto been made by a joint survey as is requisite in order to give complete effect to said treaties ; Contracting parties. The United States of America and His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , and of the British

Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India , being equally desir-

CONVENTION- GREAT BRITAIN. APRIL 21 , 1906.

2949

ous to provide for the surveying and marking out upon the ground of the said astronomical line established by existing treaties, and thus to remove any possible cause of difference between their respective governments in regard to the location of the said 141st merid-
ian of West Longitude, have resolved to conclude a convention to that end, and for that purpose have appointed their respective plenipotentiaries :
The President of the United States of America, The Honorable Elihu Root, Secretary of State of the United States, and
His Britannic Majesty, The Right Honorable Sir H. Mortimer Durand, G. C. M. G. , K. C. S. I. , K. C. I. E. , His Majesty's Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United States ;
Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, which were found in due and proper form, have agreed to and concluded the following articles :

Plenipotentiaries.

ARTICLE I.

Each Government shall appoint one Commissioner with whom may be associated such surveyors , astronomers and other assistants as each Government may elect.
The Commissioners shall at as early a period as practicable ascertain by the telegraphic method a convenient point on the 141st meridian of West Longitude and shall then proceed under their joint direction and by their joint operations in the field , to trace and mark so much of a north and south line passing through said point as is necessary to be defined for determining the exact boundary line as established by the said Convention of 28/16 February, 1825 , between
the possessions in America of His Britannic Majesty, and the adjacent possessions in America formerly belonging to His Majesty The Emperor of all the Russias and ceded to the United States by the said Treaty of 30th March , 1867.

Commissioners, etc. Vol. 15, p. 539.

ARTICLE II .

The location of the 141st meridian as determined hereunder shall umBeonutnsd.ary line monbe marked by intervisible objects, natural or artificial , at such dis-
tances apart as the Commissioners shall agree upon and by such additional marks as they shall deem necessary, and the line when and where thus marked , in whole or in part , and agreed upon by the Commissioners, shall be deemed to define permanently for all international
purposes the 141st meridian mentioned in the treaty of February 28/16, 1825 , between Great Britain and Russia .
The location of the marks shall be described by such views , maps Maps, etc., of locations.
and other means as the Commissioners shall decide upon, and duplicate records of these descriptions shall be attested by the Commissioners jointly and be by them deposited with their respective Governments , together with their final report hereinafter mentioned .

ARTICLE III.

Each Government shall bear the expenses incident to the employment of its own appointees and of the operations conducted by them, but the cost of material used in permanently marking the meridian,
and of its transportation and erection in place , shall be borne equally and jointly by the two Governments.

Expenses.

ARTICLE IV.

The Commissioners shall diligently prosecute the work to its com- Reports. pletion and they shall submit to their respective Governments from

2950

CONVENTION-GREAT BRITAIN. APRIL 21, 1906.

Ratification. Signatures.

time to time, and at least once in every calendar year, a joint report of progress, and a final comprehensive report upon the completion of the whole work.
ARTICLE V.
The present convention shall be duly ratified by the President of the United States of America, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate thereof, and by His Britannic Majesty, and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Washington or at London as soon as possible.
In faith whereof, we the respective plenipotentiaries have signed this convention and have hereunto affixed our seals.
Done in duplicate at Washington this twenty-first day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six .
ELIHU ROOT [SEAL. ] HM DURAND [SEAL.]

Exchange of ratifications.

And whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified on both

parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged

Proclamation.

at the City of Washington, on the sixteenth day of August, one thousand nine hundred and six ;
Now, therefore , be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt , President

of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention

to be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of America to be affixed .

Done at Washington, this twenty-first day of August , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six , and of the
[SEAL. ] Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE 1 Acting Secretary of State.

1 1

CONVENTION-JAPAN. MAY 17, 1906.

2951

Supplementary convention between the United States and Japan for the extradition of criminals. Signed at Tokyo, May 17, 1906; ratification advised by the Senate, June 22, 1906; ratified by the Presi-
dent, June 28, 1906; ratified by Japan, September 22, 1906; ratifications exchanged at Tokyo, September 25, 1906; proclaimed, September 26, 1906.

May 17, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Supplementary Convention between the United States of America and His Majesty the Emperor of Japan providing for the addition of the crimes of embezzlement of private moneys or property and larceny to the list of crimes and offences on account of which
extradition may be granted between the two countries, was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Tokyo, on the seventeenth day of May, one thousand nine hundred and six, the original of which Supplementary Convention , being in the English and Japanese languages is word for word as follows:
The President of the United States of America and His Majesty the Emperor of Japan being desirous to add the crimes of embezzlement of private moneys or property and larceny to the list of crimes or offences on account of which extradition may be granted under the Treaty concluded between the two countries on the 29th day of April, 1886 (corresponding to the 29th day of the 4th month of the 19th year of Meiji), with a view to the better administration of justice and the prevention of crime in their respective territories and jurisdictions, have resolved to conclude a Supplementary Convention, and, for this purpose , have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries , to wit:
The President of the United States of America, Huntington Wilson, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America at Tokio , and
His Majesty the Emperor of Japan, Marquis Kinmoti Saïonzi, Shoni First Class of the Imperial Order of the Rising Sun, His Imperial Maj esty's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs;
Who, after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, which were found to be in due and proper form , have agreed to and concluded the following

Preamble. Contracting parties. Plenipotentiaries.

ARTICLE .

The following crimes are added to the list of crimes or offences numbered 1 to 13 in the second Article of the said Treaty of the 29th day of April , 1886 (corresponding to the 29th day of the 4th month of the 19th year of Meiji) , on account of which extradition may be granted, that is to say :
Embezzlement by persons hired or salaried , to the detriment of their employers, where the amount of money or the value of the property embezzled is not less than $200 or 400 Yen.
VOL XXXIV, PT 3-8

Extraditable crimes. Vol. 24, p. 1015.
Embezzlement.

2952

CONVENTION-JAPAN. MAY 17, 1906.

Larceny. Ratification.

Larceny, where the offence is punishable by imprisonment for one year or more, or for which sentence of imprisonment for one year or more has been pronounced.
The present Convention shall be ratified and the ratifications shall be exchanged at Tokio as soon as possible.
It shall come into force ten days after the exchange of the ratifications, and it shall continue and terminate in the same manner as the said Treaty of the 29th day of April, 1886 (corresponding to the 29th day of the 4th month of the 19th year of Meiji).

Signatures

In testimony whereof the respective Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Convention and have affixed thereto their seals.
Done in duplicate at Tokio, in the English and Japanese languages,

this 17th day of May, one thousand nine hundred and six (correspond-

ing to the 17th day of the 5th month of the 39th year of Meiji).

[SEAL] HUNTINGTON WILSON.

[SEAL] MARQUIS SAYONZI

Exchange of ratifications.

And whereas the said Supplementary Convention has been duly rat-

ified on both parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were

exchanged in the City of Tokyo , on the twenty-fifth day of September, 1906 .

Now, therefore, be it known that I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, have caused the said Supplementary Convention to be made public, to the end that the same may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington, this twenty -sixth day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
[SEAL] six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirty-first . THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President: ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

[Japanese text not printed. ]

CONVENTION-MEXICO. MAY 21 , 1906.

2953

Convention between the United States and Mexico providing for the equitable distribution of the waters of the Rio Grande for irrigation purposes. Signed at Washington , May 21, 1906; ratification advised by the Senate, June 26, 1906; ratified by the President, December 26, 1906; ratified by Mexico, January 5, 1907; ratifications exchanged at Washington, January 16, 1907; proclaimed, January 16, 1907.

May 21 , 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas a Convention between the United States of America and

the United States of Mexico, providing for the equitable distribution of the waters of the Rio Grande for irrigation purposes, and to remove

all causes of controversy between them in respect thereto, was concluded and signed by their respective Plenipotentiaries at Washington on the twenty- first day of May, one thousand nine hundred and six, the original of which Convention, being in the English and Spanish languages, is word for word as follows:
The United States of America Los Estados Unidos de América and the United States of Mexico y los Estados Unidos Mexicanos

being desirous to provide for the equitable distribution of the waters of the Rio Grande for irriga tion purposes , and to remove all causes of controversy between them in respect thereto, and being moved by considerations of international comity, have resolved to conclude a Convention for these purposes and have named as their Plenipotentiaries:
The President of the United

deseosos de ponerse de acuerdo en la equitativa distribución de las aguas del Río Grande para fines de irrigación , y de alejar todas las causas de discusión entre ellos á
ese respecto, y obrando por consideraciones de cortesía interna-
cional, han resuelto celebrar una Convención con este propósito y han nombrado sus Plenipotenciarios, á saber:
El Presidente de los Estados

States of America, Elihu Root, Secretary of State of the United States; and
The President of the United

Unidos de América, al Señor Elihu Root, Secretario de Estado de los Estados Unidos ; y
El Presidente de los Estados

States of Mexico, His Excellency Señor Don Joaquín D. Casasús, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of Mexico at Washington ;
Who, after having exhibited

Unidos Mexicanos, á Su Excelencia el Señor Don Joaquín D. Casasús, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos en Washington ; quienes, despues de presentar sus

their respective full powers, which were found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following articles :

plenos poderes respectivos, que se encontraron en buena y debida forma, han convenido en los artículos siguientes :

Preamble. Contracting powers. Plenipotentiaries.

ARTICLE I.
After the completion of the proposed storage dam near Engle, New Mexico, and the distributing

ARTÍCULO I.
Amount of water deUna vez que se hayan terminado livered to Mexico anla proyectada presa cerca de Engle, nually. Nuevo México, y el sistema auxi-

2954

CONVENTION- MEXICO. MAY 21 , 1906.

system auxiliary thereto, and as soon as water shall be available
in said system for the purpose, the United States shall deliver to Mexico a total of 60,000 acre-feet of water annually, in the bed of the Rio Grande at the point where the head works of the Acequia Madre, known as the Old Mexican Canal, now exist above the city of Juarez, Mexico.

liar de distribución al efecto , y tan luego como haya agua disponible
para el objeto en dicho sistema, los Estados Unidos entregarán á México un total de 60,000 acres pies de agua anualmente, en el lecho del Río Grande y en el punto en donde se encuentran ahora las obras principales de la Acequia Madre, conocida con el nombre de viejo canal mexicano, arriba de Ciudad Juarez , Mexico.

ARTICLE II.

Distribution of wa-

ter.

The delivery of the said amount

of water shall be assured by the

United States and shall be distrib-

uted through the year in the same proportions as the water supply

proposed to be furnished from the said irrigation system to lands in the United States in the vicinity of

El Paso, Texas , according to the following schedule , as nearly as may be possible:

ARTÍCULO II.
Los Estados Unidos asegurarán
la entrega de dicha cantidad de agua y la distribuirán durante el año en las mismas proporciones que la cantidad de agua que se proyecta proporcionar del expresado sistema de irrigación á los terrenos de los Estados Unidos en las cercanías de El Paso, Texas, de conformidad, y tan aproximadamente como sea posible, con la siguiente lista:

Acre feet Corresponding

per

cubic feet of

month.

water.

Acres pies Pies cúbicos de por mes. agua corre-
spondientes.

January February . March .
April May June . July August September.. October... November. December
Total forthe year

0 1,090 5,460 12,000 12,000 12,000 8,180 4,370 3,270 1,090
540 0
60,000 acre-feet

0
47, 480, 400 237,837, 600 522,720,000 522,720,000 522, 720,000 356, 320, 800 190,357, 200 142,441, 200 47, 480, 400 23,522, 400
0 2,613, 600, 000
cubic feet

Enero

0

Febrero

1,090

Marzo Abril

5,460 12,000

Mayo Junio ..

12,000 12,000

Julio

8,180

Agosto..

4,370

Setiembre

3,270

Octubre

1,090

Noviembre

540

Diciembre.

0

Total en el año .. 60,000 > acres pies !

47, 480, 400 237,837, 600 522, 720,000 522, 720,000 522,720,000 356, 320, 800
190,357, 200 142, 441, 200 47, 480, 400 23,522, 400
0 2, 613, 600, 000 pies cúbicos

Reduction ofamount In case, however, of extraordiduring drought.
nary drought or serious accident to the irrigation system in the United States, the amount delivered to the Mexican Canal shall be diminished in the same proportion as the water delivered to lands under said irrigation system in the United States.

En caso, sin embargo , de extraordinaria sequía ó de serio accidente en el sistema de irrigación. en los Estados Unidos , se disminuirá la cantidad de agua que deba entregarse al canal mexicano, en la misma proporción que la que se entregue á las tierras sujetas á dicho sistema de irrigación en los Estados Unidos.

ARTICLE III.

ARTÍCULO III..

Cost of storing , etc., The said delivery shall be made

paid by United States.

Ante, p. 1537.

without cost to Mexico, and the

United States agrees to pay the

La expresada entrega se hará sin gasto alguno para México , y los Estados Unidos convienen en pagar

CONVENTION- MEXICO. MAY 21 , 1906.

2955

whole cost of storing the said quantity of water to be delivered to Mexico, of conveying the same to the international line , of
measuring the said water, and of delivering it in the river bed above the head of the Mexican Canal . It is understood that the United States assumes no obligation beyond the delivering of the water in the bed of the river above the head of the Mexican Canal .

el total costo del depósito de la mencionada cantidad de agua que debe darse á México, de la conducción de la misma hasta la línea internacional, de la medición de dicha agua y de su entrega en el lecho del río, arriba de la boca del Canal Mexicano. Queda entendido que los Estados Unidos no asumen otra obligación que la de entregar el agua en el lecho del río, arriba de la boca del Canal Mexicano .

ARTICLE IV.

ARTÍCULO IV.

The delivery of water as herein provided is not to be construed as a recognition by the United States

La entrega del agua, como aquí Waiverof all claims by Mexico, etc.
se establece, no se considerará
como un reconocimiento por los

of any claim on the part of Mexico to the said waters; and it is agreed that in consideration of such deliv-
ery of water, Mexico waives any and all claims to the waters of the
Rio Grande for any purpose whatever between the head of the present Mexican Canal and Fort Quitman, Texas, and also declares fully settled and disposed of, and hereby waives, all claims heretofore as-

Estados Unidos de ningún derecho por parte de México á dichas aguas ; y se conviene que, en consideración á dicho abastecimiento de agua, México retira cualquiera y todas las reclamaciones, sea cual fuere su objeto, á las aguas del Río. Grande entre la boca del actual Canal Mexicano y Fort Quitman, Texas, y declara también completamente arregladas y extinguidas

serted or existing, or that may hereafter arise, or be asserted, against the United States on account of any damages alleged to have been sustained by the owners
of land in Mexico, by reason of the diversion by citizens of the United States of waters of the Rio Grande.

todas las reclamaciones hasta hoy presentadas, existentes ó que
puedan después suscitarse ó presentarse contra los Estados Unidos
á causa de cualesquiera daños que los propietarios de tierras en México aleguen haber sufrido con motivo de las desviación de aguas del Río Grande efectuada por ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos.

ARTICLE V.

ARTÍCULO V.

The United States, in entering
into this treaty, does not thereby
concede, expressly or by implication, any legal basis for any claims heretofore asserted or which may be hereafter asserted by reason of any losses incurred by the owners of land in Mexico due or alleged to be due to the diversion of the waters of the Rio Grande within
the United States ; nor does the United States in any way concede the establishment of any general
principle or precedent by the concluding of this treaty. The under standing of both parties is that the arrangement contemplated by this treaty extends only to the

Los Estados Unidos , al celebrar Legal basis of Mexican claims not con-
este tratado , no otorgan con él, ex- ceded.

plicita ni implicitamente, ningún fundamento legal para reclamaciones que en lo futuro se aleguen , ó puedan alegarse , procedentes de cualesquiera pérdidas sufridas por los propietarios de tierras en México , ora se deba ó se alegue deberse, á la desviación

de las aguas del Río Grande dentro de los Estados Unidos ; ni convienen los Estados Unidos de nin-
guna manera en el establecimiento

de ningún principio general ó

precedente a causa de la cele-

bración de este tratado.

Quedan Portion of the Rio Grande affected.

entendidas las dos Altas Partes

2956

CONVENTION- MEXICO.. MAY 21 , 1906.

portion of the Rio Grande which forms the international boundary, from the head of the Mexican Canal down to Fort Quitman, Texas, and in no other case.

Contratantes que el arreglo que se proyecta con este tratado sólo se extiende á la porción del Río Grande que forma el límite internacional, desde la boca del Canal Mexicano hasta Fort Quitman,
Texas, y á ningún otro caso.

ARTICLE VI.

ARTÍCULO VI.

Exchange of ratifi- The present Convention shall be cations.
ratified by both contracting parties in accordance with their con-
stitutional procedure , and the rat-
ifications shall be exchanged at
Washington as soon as possible.

Signatures.

In witness whereof, the respect-
ive Plenipotentiaries have signed the Convention both in the English and Spanish languages and have thereunto affixed their seals.
Done in duplicate at the City of Washington, this 21st day of May, onethousand nine hundred and six.

La presente Convención será ratificada por Ambas Partes Contratantes de acuerdo con las forma-
lidades constitucionales de cada una de ellas, y se canjearán las ratificaciones en Washington tan luego como fuere posible.
En fe de lo cual, los respectivos Plenipotenciarios han firmado la presente Convención, tanto en inglés como en castellano, y han puesto en ella sus sellos.
Hecho en dos originales en la Ciudad de Washington, el 21 de Mayo, de mil novecientos seis.

ELIHU ROOT JOAQUIN D CASASUS

[SEAL. ] [ SEAL. ]

Exchange of ratifications.

And whereas the said Convention has been duly ratified on both

parts, and the ratifications of the two governments were exchanged in

Proclamation.

the City of Washington, on the sixteenth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and seven ;
Now, therefore , be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President

of the United States of America, have caused the said Convention to

be made public, to the end that the same and every article and clause

thereof may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , this sixteenth day of January, in

the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven,

[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States of America

the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE Roosevelt

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- PERU. MAY 28 , 1906.

2957

Parcels- Post Convention between the United States of America and the Republic of Peru.

May 28, 1906.

For the purpose of making bet ter postal arrangements between the United States of America and the Republic of Peru, the undersigned, George Bruce Cortelyou, Postmaster General of the United States of America, and Felipe Pardo, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Peru to the United States of America, by virtue of authority vested in them, have agreed upon the following articles for the establishment of a Parcels- Post System of exchanges between the two countries.

Con el objeto de establecer mejores arreglos postales entre la República del Perú y los Estados Unidos de América, los infrascritos, Felipe Pardo, Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario del Perú en los Estados Unidos de América, y George Bruce Cortelyou , Administrador general de correos de los Estados Unidos de América, en virtud de la autorización de que están investidos, han convenido en los siguientes artículos para establecer el cambio de Paquetes Postales entre los dos países.

Preamble.

ARTICLE I.

ARTÍCULO I.

The provisions of this Convention relate only to parcels of mail matter to be exchanged by the system herein provided for, and do not affect the arrangements now
existing under the Universal Postal Convention, which will continue as heretofore; and all the agreements hereinafter contained apply exclusively to mails exchanged under these Articles.

Extent of convenLas estipulaciones de esta Con- tion. vención se refieren únicamente á las encomiendas que se remitan de conformidad con el plan que en ella se establece, y en nada afectarán los arreglos que ahora existen bajo la Convención de la Unión Postal Universal, los cuales
continuarán vigentes como lo están ahora; y todas las estipulaciones , contenidas en la presente Convención se aplicarán exclusivamente á las balijas que se cambien conforme á estos artículos .

ARTICLE II.

ARTÍCULO II.

1. There shall be admitted to
the mails exchanged under this Convention, articles of merchandise and mail matter (except let ters, post-cards, and written matter) of all kinds that are admitted under any conditions to the domestic mails of the country of origin, except that no packet may exceed Fifty dollars ($50.00) or ten Peruvian libras, gold, in value, eleven pounds (or five kilograms) in

1. Se admitirán en las balijas Articles admitted t the mails. que se cambien conforme á esta Convención, mercancías y objetos trasmisibles por el correo, de cualquier género que sean (exceptuando cartas, tarjetas postales y todo papel escrito), que se admitan conforme á los reglamentos que rigen respecto de las balijas domésticas del país de origen, con tal que ningún paquete exceda de ($50.00) 6 Lp. 10, oro, en valor, once libras

2958

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- PERU. MAY 28, 1906.

weight, nor the following dimensions: greatest length in any direction, three feet six inches (or one hundred and five centimeters) ; greatest length and girth combined, six feet (or one hundred and eighty centimeters) ; and must be so wrapped or enclosed as to permit their contents to be easily examined by postmasters and customs officers ; and except that the following articles are prohibited admission to the mails exchanged under this Convention :

Articles prohibited. Publications which violate the

copy- right laws of the country of destination ; poisons and explosive
or inflammable substances ; fatty substances, liquids and those which easily liquefy, confections and pastes, live and dead animals , ex-

cept dead insects and reptiles thor-

oughlydried; fruits and vegetables

which will easily decompose, and substances which exhale a bad

odor; lottery tickets, lottery ad-

vertisements or circulars ; all ob-

scene or immoral articles ; articles

which may destroy or in any way

damage the mails, or injure the

persons handling them.

Freedom from in- 2. All admissible articles of mer-

spection .

chandise mailed in one country for

the other, or received in one coun-

try from the other, shall be free

from any detention or inspection

whatever, except such as is re-

quired for collection of customs

duties ; and shall be forwarded by

the most speedy means to their des-

tination, being subject in their transmission to the laws and regu-

lations of each country respec-

tively .

(ó cinco kilogramos) de peso, ni de las dimensiones siguientes : Mayor longitud en cualquiera dirección , tres pies seis pulgadas (ó ciento cinco centímetros) ; mayor longitud y grosor combinados, seis pies (ó ciento ochenta centímetros); debiendo estar envueltos ó cu-
biertos de manera que permitan que su contenido sea fácilmente
examinado por los administradores de correos y de aduanas ; y exceptuándose, además, los artículos que siguen , cuya admisión queda prohibida en las balijas que se cambien entre los dos países, conforme á esta Convención, á saber :
Publicaciones que violen las leyes de propiedad literaria del país de destino ; venenos y materias explosivas ó inflamables ; sustancias grasosas, líquidas ó de fácil liquefacción , dulces y pastas ; animales vivos ó muertos, exceptuando insectos y reptiles perfectamente disecados ; frutas y vegetales que puedan descomponerse fácilmente, sustancias que exhalen mal olor ; billetes, noticias ó circulares de lotería ; objetos obscenos ó inmorales , artículos que puedan destruir ó de alguna manera dañar las balijas, ó causar perjuicio á las personas que las manejen.
2. Todos los artículos admisibles
de mercancías que se depositen en el correo de un país con destino al
otro, ó que se reciban en un país procedentes del otro, no estarán sujetos á otra detención ó inspec-
ción sino sólamente á la que fuere necesaria para cobrar los derechos aduaneros , y se despacharán á su destino por la vía más rápida , quedando sujetos en su trasmisión á las leyes y reglamentos de cada país respectivamente.

ARTICLE III.

ARTÍCULO III.

Letters must not 1. A letter or communication of accompany parcels.
the nature of personal correspondence must not accompany, be written on , or enclosed with any parcel.

Rejection.

2. If such be found, the letter will be placed in the mails, if separable, and if the communication be inseparably attached, the whole

1. Ninguna carta ó comunicación
que tenga el carácter de correspondencia personal, podrá acompañar al paquete, ya sea que esté escrita sobre él , ó incluida en el mismo .
2. Si se encontrare alguna carta, se pondrá en el correo, si pudiere separarse, y si la comunicación estuviere adherida de manera que

PARCELS- POST CONVENTION- PERU. MAY 28, 1906.

2959

package will be rejected. If, however, any such should inadvertently be forwarded, the country of destination will collect double rates of postage according to the Universal Postal Convention.
3. No parcel may contain packages intended for delivery at an address other than the one borne by the parcel itself. If such enclosed packages be detected, they must be sent forward singly, charged with new and distinct parcels- post rates.

no se pueda separar, se desechará el paquete entero. Sin embargo, si alguna carta fuere enviada inadvertidamente , el país de destino. cobrará doble porte por ella, conforme á la Convención Postal Universal.
3. Ningún paquete podrá contener encomiendas con dirección diferente de la que aparezca en la cubierta de aquel. Si se encon-
trasen tales encomiendas , deberán remitirse separadamente cobrando nuevo y distinto porte por cada una de ellas.

Address.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTÍCULO IV.

1. The following rates of postage shall in all cases be required to.be
fully prepaid with postage stamps of the country of origin, viz :
2. In the United States ; for a
parcel not exceeding one pound or four hundred and sixty grams in weight, twenty cents, and for each additional one pound or four hundred and sixty grams or fraction thereof, twenty cents; and in the Republic of Peru: for a parcel not exceeding one pound (or four hundred and sixty grams) in weight, fifty milesimos of a Peruvian libra, gold, and for each additional one pound (or four hundred and sixty grams), or fraction thereof, fifty milesimos de libra Peruvian gold.
3. The parcels shall be promptly delivered to addressees at the post offices of address in the country of destination, free of charge for postage; but the country of destination may, at its option, levy and collect from the addressee for interior service and delivery a charge the amount of which is to be fixed
according to its own regulations, but which shall in no case exceed five cents in the United States nor 50 milesimos of a Peruvian libra, gold, in Peru for each parcel whatever its weight.

1. Se exigirá, en todo caso , el pago previo y total del porte en
estampillas del correo del país de origen, como siguen:
2. En la República de Perú ,
por un paquete que no exceda del peso de una libra (ó cuatrocientos sesenta gramos ) cincuenta milésimos de libra peruana oro, y por cada libra adicional (ó cuatrocientos sesenta gramos adicionales) , ó fracción de este peso, cincuenta milésimos de libra peruana oro; y en los Estados Unidos, por un paquete que no exceda del peso de una libra (ó cuatrocientos se senta gramos) y por cada libra adicional (ó cuatro cientos sesenta gramos) , ó fracción de este peso , veinte cents.
3. Los paquetes se entregarán sin tardanza á las personas á
quienes se dirijan, en la oficina de Correos á donde fueren dirigidos, en el país de su destino, libres de
todo recargo por porte de correo ; pero el país del destino puede imponer y cobrar á la persona á quien se dirija el paquete, y en compensación del servicio interior y de entrega, un recargo cuyo monto se fijará según sus propios reglamentos ; pero el cual en ningún caso excederá de cinco cents en los Estados Unidos ni de cincuenta milésimos de libra peruana oro en el Perú por cada paquete, cualquiera que fuere su peso .

Rates of postage. In the United States. In Peru.
Delivery. Post, p. 2964.

ARTICLE V.

ARTÍCULO V.

1. The sender will, at the time 1. Al depositar en el correo un Receipt. of mailing the parcel, receive from paquete , se entregará al remitente

2960

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- PERU. MAY 28 , 1906 .

the post office where the parcel is

Registry.

mailed, a " certificate of mailing " on a form like Form I annexed hereto.
2. The sender of a parcel may

Return receipt.

have the same registered by paying, in addition to the postage , the registration fee required for registered articles in the country of origin .
3. An acknowledgment of the

delivery of a registered parcel shall be returned to the sender

when requested ; but either coun-

try may require of the sender prepayment of a fee therefor not ex-
ceeding five cents or ten milesimos
of a Peruvian libra, gold. Notice to addressees. 4. The addressees ofa registered

parcel shall be advised of the ar-

rival of the parcel by a notice from the post office of destination.

un " Certificado de Envío " de la oficina de correos que lo recibió, conforme al modelo anexo No. 1 .
2. El remitente de un paquete
podrá certificarlo, pagando, además del porte de correo, el valor de la certificación que por artículos certificados se cobre en el país de su orígin.
3. Se enviará al remitente cuando así lo solicite, una constancia de la entrega hecha del paquete certificado ; pero cada país puede exigir del remitente el pago previo de un derecho por ese servicio, que no exceda de cinco cents ó diez milésimos de libra peruana oro.
4. La oficina de correos de des-
tino dará aviso de la llegada del paquete certificado á la persona á quien fuere dirigido.

ARTICLE VI.

ARTÍCULO VI.

Customs declara-

tion .

1. The sender of each parcel

shall make a Customs Declaration,

pasted upon or attached to the par-

cel, upon a special Form provided

for the purpose (See Form 2 an-

nexed hereto) giving a general de-

scription of the parcel , its address ,

an accurate statement of the con-
tents and value, date of mailing,
andthe sender's signature and place of residence. Collection of duties.
2. The parcels in question shall

be subject inthe country of destina-

tion to all customs duties and all customs regulations in force in

that country for the protection of its Customs Revenues; and the cus-

toms duties properly chargeable thereon shall be collected on delivery, in accordance with the cus-

toms regulations ofthe country of

destination; but neither sender nor

addressee shall be subject to the

payment of any charge for fines or

penalties on account of failure to

comply with any customs regulation.

1. El remitente de cada paquete
hará una declaración aduanera que se fijará ó adherirá sobre la cubierta del mismo según la fórmula especial que se le suministrara para ese objeto, (Véase el modelo anexo . No. 2) dando en ella una descripción general del paquete , una manifestación exacta de su contenido y valor, fecha del envío, firma y lugar de residencia del remitente.
2. Estos paquetes quedarán sujetos en el país de su destino á todos los reglamentos y derechos aduaneros que estuvieren vigentes en el
mismo país, para proteger las rentas de sus aduanas ; y los dere-
chos aduaneros que debidamente corresponda cobrar sobre los mismos paquetes , serán cobrados al entregarse estos, de acuerdo con los reglamentos aduaneros del país de destino ; pero ni el remitente ni el destinatario podrán ser obligados al pago de multas ó penas por haberse dejado de cumplir algún reglamento aduanero.

ARTICLE VII.

ARTÍCULO VII.

Fees to be retained. Each country shall retain to its own use, the whole of the postages, registration and delivery fees, it collects on said parcels; consequently, this Convention will

Cada país percibirá para sí, el total del porte de correo, de los derechos de certificación y de entrega que colecte sobre dichos paquetes ; y en consecuencia, esta

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- PERU . MAY 28 , 1906.

2961

give rise to no separate accounts Convención no motivará cuentas

between the two countries.

separadas entre los dos países .

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTÍCULO VIII.

1. The parcels shall be considered as a component part of the mails exchanged direct between the United States of America and the Republic of Peru, to be despatched to destination by the country of origin at its cost and by such means as it provides ; but must be forwarded, at the option of the despatching office , either in boxes prepared expressly for the service, or in ordinary mail sacks marked " Parcels-Post " and securely sealed with wax or otherwise as may be mutually provided by regulations hereunder.
2. Each country shall return empty to the despatching office by next mail, all such boxes or sacks.
3. Although articles admitted under this Convention will be transmitted as aforesaid between the exchange offices, they should be so carefully packed as to be safely transmitted in the ordinary mails of either country, both in going to the exchange office in the country of origin and to the office of address in the country of destination.
4. Each despatch of a parcelspost mail must be accompanied by a descriptive list in duplicate, of all the packages sent, showing distinctly the list number of each parcel, the name of the sender, the name of the addressee with address of destination, and the declared contents and value ; and must be enclosed in one of the boxes or sacks of such despatch. (See Form 3, annexed hereto. )

1. Los paquetes se considerarán Transportation.

como parte integrante de las balijas cambiadas directamente entre los Estados Unidos de América y la República del Perú, y serán des-

pachados á su destino por el país de su origen al otro, á su costo y por los medios que él provea ; pero deben despacharse, á opción de la oficina que los envíe en cajas expresamente preparadas para el servicio, ó en sacos ordinarios de correspondencia que se marcarán : " Paquetes Postales " y se sellarán

con la seguridad debida , con lacre, ó de alguna otra manera que se determine mutuamente por los

reglamentos respectivos.

Return of boxes,

2. Cada país devolverá á la ofici- etc.

na de origen por el próximocorreo, todas las cajas ó sacos recibidos.
3. Aunque los paquetes admitidos conforme á esta Convención

Packing.

se trasmitirán en la forma designada, entre las oficinas de cambio, deberán empaquetarse cuidadosamente, á fin de que puedan trasmitirse con debida seguridad en las balijas abiertas de un país, tanto á la oficina de correos de cambio en el país de su origen, como á la oficina de correos á donde

se dirijan, en el país de su destino. 4. Cada envío de paquetes pos- Descriptive list.

tales deberá ser acompañado de una lista descriptiva, hecha por duplicado, de todos los paquetes enviados, que exprese claramente el número de lista de cada paquete, el nombre del remitente , el nombre y dirección de la persona á quien

se dirije y el contenido y valor declarado, y deberá incluirse en una de las cajas ó sacos del mismo envío. (Véase el modelo anexo No. 3.)

ARTICLE IX .

ARTÍCULO IX.

Exchanges of mails under this Convention shall, until otherwise mutually agreed upon, be effected through the Exchange Post Offices at New York, New Orleans, and San Francisco , and Lima, under such regulations relative to the

El cambio de ' balijas conforme á esta Convención , se verificará mientras no se acuerde otra cosa por las oficinas de correos de NuevaYork, Nueva Orleáns y San Francisco, y de Lima, de conformidad con los reglamentos relativos á los

Exchange offices.

2962

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION - PERU. MAY 28, 1906.

details of the exchange, as may be mutually determined to be es-
sential to the security and expedition of the mails and the protection of the Customs Revenues.

detalles de cambio que por mutuo convenio se determinen y se con-
sideren como esenciales á la se-
guridad y expedición en el envío de las balijas y á la protección de los derechos aduaneros.

ARTICLE X.

ARTÍCULO X.

Receipt of mail.

1. As soon as the mail shall 1. La oficina de correos del

Parcel bill.

have reached the exchange office of destination , that office shall check the contents of the mail.
2. In the event of the Parcel Bill not having been received , a

país del destino, verificará el contenido de la balija, tan luego como la reciba.
2. En el caso de que no se recibiere la lista de los paquetes en-

Errors.

substitute should at once be prepared.
3. Any errors in the entries on

viados por el correo, se hará inmediatamente una que la sustituya.
3. Los errores que puedan ha-

the Parcel Bill which may be dis- berse cometido y se descubrieren covered, should, after verification en la lista de los paquetes envia-

by a second officer, be corrected and noted for report to the despatching office on a " Verification Certificate, " which should be sent in a special envelope .

dos por el correo, deben anotarse y corregirse después de haber sido verificados por un segundo empleado, y se comunicarán á la oficina remitente en el " Certificado

Nonreceipt of parcels.

4. If a parcel advised on the bill

be not received, after the non-re-

ceipt has been verified by a second

officer the entry on the bill should

de Comprobación ", que le enviará bajo cubierta especial.
4. Si no se recibiere algún pa-
quete de los consignados en la lista, después de confirmada la omisión por un segundo empleado se can-

be canceled, and the fact likewise reported at once.
Insufficient postage. 5. If a parcel be observed to be

celará la anotación respectiva de la lista, y se informará de igual manera lo ocurrido .
5. Si apareciere un paquete in-

insufficiently prepaid, it must not be taxed with deficient postage, but
the circumstance must be reported on the " Verification Certificate " Form .

suficientemente franqueado, no deberá cargarse la insuficiencia, pero se dará cuenta del hecho en el " Certificado de Comprobación . "

Damaged parcels.

6. Should a parcel be received

6. Cuando se recibiere un pa-

Correct mails.

in a damaged or imperfect condi-
tion, full particulars shall be reported in the same manner.
7. If no " Verification Certifi-

quete averiado ó en mal estado , se comunicarán en la misma manera detalles completos acerca de ello .
7. Si no se recibiere " Certifi-

cate " or note of error be received, a parcel mail shall be considered as duly delivered , having been found on examination correct in all respects.

cado de Comprobación ", ó aviso de error, se considerará que la balija de paquetes fué debidamente recibida y que habiendo sido exami nada, se encontró exacta bajo todos

aspectos.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTÍCULO XI.

Failure to deliver.

1. If a parcel cannot be delivered as addressed , or is refused , it must be returned without charge, directly to the despatching office of exchange, at the expiration of thirty days from its receipt at the

1. Si no pudiere entregarse un paquete á la persona á quien se dirije , ó si ésta rehusare recibirlo, se devolverá directamente y sin recargo, á la oficina que lo despachó, á la expiración de treint.a

PARCELS - POST CONVENTION- PERU. MAY 28 , 1906 .

2963

office of destination; and the country of origin may collect from the sender for the return of the parcel, a sum equal to the postage when first mailed.
2. When the contents of a parcel which cannot be delivered are liable to deterioration or corruption, they may be destroyed at once, if necessary ; or, if expedient , sold, without previous notice or judicial formality, for the benefit of the right person, the particulars of each sale being noticed by one post office to the other.

días contados desde su recibo, por
la oficina de destino, y el país de origen puede cobrar al remitente
por la devolución del paquete, una suma igual al porte que pagó cuando lo puso primitivamente en el correo.
2. Si el contenido de un paquete ,
que no fuere posible entregar pudiere deteriorarse ó descomponerse podrá destruirse inmediatamente, si esa medida fuere necesaria; ó si se pudiere, se venderá, sin necesidad de aviso previo ó de formalidad judicial, para beneficio de la persona interesada ; y los detalles de la venta se comunicarán por una oficina de correos á la otra.

Perishable articles.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTÍCULO XII.

The Post-Office Department of either of the contracting countries
will not be responsible for the loss or damage of any parcel. Consequently, no indemnity can be claimed by the sender or addressee in either country.

El Departamento de Correos de forNolnosrse,septocnsibility cada uno de los países contratantes , no será responsable por la pérdida ó avería que sufra algún paquete. Por consiguiente no podrá reclamarse , por lo mismo, en ninguno de los dos países, indemnización alguna por parte del remitente , ni de la persona á quien vaya dirigido.

ARTICLE XIII.

ARTÍCULO XIII.

The Postmaster General of the
United States of America, and the Director General of Posts of the Republic of Peru, may, by agree. ment, except, on account of insecurity in the conveyance, or for other causes, certain post offices in either country from receiving or dispatching parcels of merchandise as provided by this Convention ; and shall have authority to jointly make such further regulations of order and detail, as may be found necessary to carry out the present Convention from time to time ; and may by agreement prescribe conditions for the admission to the mails of any of the articles prohibited by Article II of this Convention.

El Administrador general de la República del Perú y el Administrador general de Correos de los Estados Unidos de América , pueden convenir en exceptuar algunas oficinas postales de recibir o des-
pachar paquetes de mercaderías, según el presente Convenio, por falta de seguridad en la conduc-
ción, ó por otras causas, y tendrán autoridad para hacer de común acuerdo y de tiempo en tiempo, aquellos reglamentos de orden y detalle que crean necesarios para cumplir debidamente las prescripciones de la presente Convención , así como para establecer la admisión en las balijas de cualquiera de los artículos prohibidos por el Artículo II de esta Convención.

Further regulations.

ARTICLE XIV.

ARTÍCULO XIV .

This Convention shall be ratified by the contracting countries in accordance with their respective laws. Once ratified, it shall take

Esta Convención se ratificará
por los países contratantes de acuerdo con sus respectivas leyes. Una vez ratificada, comenzará á

Duration, etc.

2964

PARCELS -POST CONVENTION - PERU. MAY 28 , 1906 .

Signatures.

effect, and operations thereunder shall begin on the first day of September one thousand nine hundred and six; and shall continue in force until terminated by mutual agreement, but may be annulled at the desire of either Department, upon six months previous notice given to the other.
Done in duplicate, and signed at Washington the 28th day of May, one thousand nine hundred and six.

tener efecto el día primero de Setiembre de mil novecientos seis, y continuará en vigor hasta que se termine por consentimiento mutuo; pero podrá anularse, con la notificación de uno de los Departamentos de Correos hecha al otro, con seis meses de anticipación.
Hecho por duplicado y firmado en Washington el día veinte ocho de mayo de mil novecientos seis.

[ L. S.]

GEORGE B. CORTELYOU,

[L. S. ]

Postmaster- General of the United States of America. FELIPE PARDO,

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary ofPeru in the United States of America.

The foregoing Parcels- Post Convention between the United States of

America and the Republic of Peru has been negotiated and concluded

with my advice and consent, and is hereby approved and ratified.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the Great Seal of the United

States to be hereunto affixed .

[ SEAL . ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT,

Secretary of State.

WASHINGTON, D. C. , May 29th, 1906.

Ratification by Peru. Con fecha 23 del actual se ha expedido el siguiente decreto supremo :

"Apruebase la convencion firmada en Washington , el 28 de mayo ultimo, por el Ministro Plenipotenciario del Peru y el director General de Correos de los Estados Unidos de America , para el canje de enco-

miendas postales entre ambos paises, debiendo comenzar a regir, como esta estipulado , el 1º de Setiembre proximo. Autorizase, al afecto , a la Direccion General de Correos de la Republica, la que, ademas, tendra facultad de cobrar a los destinatarios en el Peru cincuenta centavos

Ante, p. 2959.

($0.50) de sol por cada paquete postal de procedencia americana, con el objeto de compensar los gastos de transito y entrega que ocasionen las encomiendas, de conformidad con lo que dispone el inciso 3 del articulo IV de la misma convencion . Expidase el respectivo instrumento de ratificacion ; registrese , comuniquese y publiquese.

" [RUBRICA. ]

"S. E. PRADO Y UGARTECHE . "

[Translation . ]

We, by these presents, ratify the Convention signed at Washington the 28th of May last , by the Minister of Plenipotentiary of Peru and the Post- Master General of the United States of America, for the interchange of Parcels Post between both

countries, which Convention will begin to be enforced, as stipulated, on the 1st of

September next. The Post Office Department of the Republic is hereby authorized to recognize the said Convention and will be further authorized to charge to the addressees in Peru .50 of a Peruvian Sol for each Parcel Post coming from the United

States, to the end of compensating the expenses of transportation and delivery which said parcels may cause, in accordance with the provision of Section 3, Article 4, of the same Convention. We further order that the pertaining instrument of ratifica-

tion be issired ; be it registered , communicated, and published.

(Signed )

J. PRADO Y UGARTECHE,

Minister of Foreign Affairs of Peru.

JUNE 30, 1906. PARCELS -POST CONVENTION- DENMARK. AUGUST 15, 1906.

2965

Parcels- Post Convention between the United States of America and Denmark.

June 30, 1906. August 15, 1906.

For the purpose of making better postal arrangements between the United States of America and
Denmark, the undersigned G. B. Cortelyou, Postmaster General of the United States of America, and The Directorate General of Posts
of Denmark, by virtue of authority vested in them, have agreed upon the following articles for the establishment of a Parcels - Post System of exchanges between the two countries.

I den Hensigt at forbedre Postforbindelsen mellem Danmark, og de Forenede Stater i Amerika ere
Undertegnede, Generaldirektoratet for det danske Postvæsen, og G. B. Cortelyou , Generalpostmester i de Forenede Stater i Ame-
rika, i Henhold til meddelt Bemyn digelse , komne overens on fólgende Artikler til Etablering af en Pakkepostudveksling mellem de to Lande.

Preamble.

ARTICLE I.

ARTIKEL I.

The provisions of this Convention relate only to parcels of mail matter to be exchanged by the system herein provided for, and do not affect the arrangements now existing under the Universal Postal Convention , which will continue as heretofore ; and all the agreements hereinafter contained
apply exclusively to mails exchanged under these articles, directly between the office of New York, and such other offices within the United States as may be hereafter designated by the Postmaster-General of the United States ; and the office of Copenhagen , and such other offices in Denmark as
may be hereafter designated by the Directorate General of Posts of Denmark.

Bestemmelserne i denne Over- Extent of convention .
enskomst vedróre kun Postpakker, der udveksles efter det her fastsatte System, og beróre ikke de nugældende Bestemmelser i Verdenspostkonventionen, hvilke
skulle vedblive at gælde som hidtil ; alle de i det efterfolgende indeholdte Bestemmelser vedrøre udelukkende de Poster, der i Henhold til disse Artikler udveksles direkte mellem Penge -og Pakkepostkontoret i Kjóbenhavn samt de andre Postkontorer i Danmark, som senere maatte blive bestemte
af den danske Postbes tyrelse, og Postkontoret i New York samt de andre Postkontorer i de Forenede
Stater, som senere maatte blive bestemte af Generalpostmesteren i de Forenede Stater.

ARTICLE

ARTIKEL II.

There shall be admitted to the mails exchanged under this Convention, articles of merchandise and mail matter-except letters, postcards and written matter of all kinds- that are admitted
under any conditions to the domestic mails of the country of

I de Poster, der udveksles i Articles admitted to mails. Henhold til denne Overenskomst, kan sendes Varer og Postsagerherfra undtaget Breve, Brevkort og skrevne Sager af enhver Art-, forsaavidt disse Forsendelser over-
hovedet kunne postbefordres i Afsendelseslandets indenrigske

2966

JUNE 30, 1906. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION - DENMARK. AUGUST 15, 1906.

origin, except that no packet Tjeneste. Dog maa ingen Pakke

must exceed fifty dollars ($50) overstige i Værdi 50 Dollars eller

or its equivalent in value, 4 det tilsvarende Belób eller i Vægt

pounds 6 ounces [ or 2 kilograms] 2 Kilogram (4 Pund 6 Unzer, enin weight, nor the following di-. gelsk Vægt) og heller ikke over-

mensions : Greatest length in any skride folgende Dimensioner : direction, three feet six inches stórste Længde i hvilkensomhelst

[ 105 centimeters ] ; greatest length Retning 105 Centimeter (tre Fod

and girth combined, six feet [ 180 seks Tommer, engelsk Maal) . centimeters] ; and must be so Pakkernes Omslag og Indpakning

wrapped or inclosed as to permit maa være saaledges, at Indholdet their contents to be easily exam- let kan undersóges af Toldfunk-

ined by customs officers and by tionærerne og af de paagældende postmasters duly authorized to do Postfunktionærer.

so; and except that the following

articles are prohibited : Articles prohibited . Publications which violate the

Fólgende Genstande kunne ikke

copyright laws of the country of sendes i Pakkeposten : trykte Sa-

destination; poisons, and explo- ger, der krænke Bestemmelsessive or inflammable substances ; landets Love om den litterære

fatty substances ; liquids, and those Ejendomsret ; Gifte og eksplosive

which easily liquefy; confections eller let antændelige Stoffer; Fedtand pastes ; live or dead animals, stoffer, flydende Sager og Sager,

except dead insects and reptiles som let gaae over i flydende

when thoroughly dried , and live Form ; Sukkerbagværk og Kon-

bees enclosed in appropriate re- fekt ; levende eller dóde Dyr med

ceptacles ; fruits and vegetables Undtagelse af dóde Insekter og

which easily decompose, and sub- Krybdyr i fuldstændig torret stances which exhale a bad odor ; Stand samt levende Bier, indes-

lottery tickets, lottery advertise- luttede i dertil egnede Beholdere ;

ments or lottery circulars; all Frugt og Gróntsager, som let

obscene or immoral articles ; arti gaae i Forradnelse ; ildelugtende

cles which may in any way dam Sager; Lotterisedler, Lotterimed-

age or destroy the mails, or injure the persons handling them.

delelser eller Lottericirkulærer ; alle obskóne eller umoralske Sa-
ger: Genstande som paa nogen Maade kunne beskadige eller óde-

lægge Postforsendelserne eller skade de Personer som behandle dem .

ARTICLE III .

ARTIKEL III.

Letters must not ac- A letter or communication of the company parcels.
nature of personal correspondence must not accompany, be written on, or inclosed with any parcel.

Rejection .

If such be found, the letter will be placed in the mails if separable, and if the communication be inseparably attached, the whole package will be rejected. If, however, any such should inadvertently be forwarded, the country of destination may collect, on the letter or letters, double rates of postage according to the Universal Postal Convention .

Breve eller Meddelelser, der
have Karakter af personlig Korrespondance, maa ikke medfólge, skrives udenpaa eller indlægges i nogen Pakke .
Hvis saadanne findes, ville de,
hvis de kunne skilles fra Pakken , blive befordrede særskildt ; men hvis Meddelelsen ikke kan skilles fra Pakken, skal hele Forsendelsen , nægtes Modtagelse . Hvis allige vel en saadan Forsendelse ved Uagtsomhed skulde blive fremsendt, kan Bestemmelseslandet opkræve dobbelt Porto for Brevet eller Brevene overensstemmende med Verdenspostkonventionens Bestemmelser.

JUNE 30, 1906. PARCELS -POST CONVENTION-DENMARK. AUGUST 15, 1906.

2967

No parcel may contain parcels intended for delivery at an address other than that borne by the parcel itself. If such inclosed parcels be detected, they must be sent forward singly, charged with new and distinct narcels-post rates.

Ingen Pakke maa indeholde Pakker, der ere bestemte til at udleveres efter en anden Adresse end den, som Pakken selv bærer. Opdages saadanne indlagte Pakker, skulle de fremsendes enkeltvis og belastes med ny særskilt Pakkepostporto.

Address.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTIKEL IV.

The packages in question shall De omhandlede Pakker skulle i be subject in the country of desti- Bestemmelseslandet være under-

nation to all customs duties and all customs regulations in force in that country for the protection of its customs revenues, and to the following rates of postage, which shall

givne alle de i dette Land gældende Toldafgifter og Toldlove. Fólgende portosatser, der altid skulle erlægges forud med det fulde Belób, komme til Anven-

in all cases be required to be FULLY PREPAID, viz :
In the United States ; for a par-

delse , nemlig: I de Forenede

Stater for en

cel not exceeding one pound [ 455 grams ] in weight, 12 cents ; and for each additional pound [ 455 grams] or fraction of a pound, 12 cents :

Pakke, der i Vægt ikke overskrider et Pund (455 Gram) , 12
Cents og for hvert overskydende Pund (455 Gram) eller Del deraf 12 Cents.

In Denmark; for a parcel not exceeding in weight one kilogram 60 öre, and for other parcels, 1 krone .

I Danmark for en Pakke hvis Vægt ikke overskrider 1. Kilo-
gram, 60 Öre og for andre Pakker 1 Krone pr. Pakke.

Collection of duties

ARTICLE V. 3

ARTIKEL V.

The sender of each package must make a Customs Declaration , upon a special form provided for the purpose [see Form 1, "A" annexed hereto], giving the address, a general description of the parcel, an accurate statement of the contents and value, date of mailing, and the sender's signature and place of residence; which declaration must accompany the parcel to destination.
Either country may authorize the postoffice where the package is mailed to deliver to the sender of the package at the time of
mailing, a certificate of mailing on a form like Form 2 annexed hereto.
The sender of a package may have the same registered by paying the registration fee required for registered articles in the country of origin, and, on demand therefor, will receive a return receipt, without additional charge.
VOL XXXIV, PT 3-

For hver Pakke skal Afsen- Customs declaration .
deren udfærdige en Tolddeklara-
tion paa en hertil indrettet særlig Blanket (See vedfójede For- Post, p. 2972.
mular 1 , A), indeholdende Pakkens Adresse, en almindelig

Beskrivelse af den, en nójagtig Angivelse af Indholdet og dets Værdi , Afsendelsensdatum og

Afsenderens Underskrift og Opholdssted ; denne Deklaration skal medfólge Pakken til dens Bestem-

melsessted . Ethvert af
myndige det

Landene kan bePostkontor, hvor

Receipt.

Pakken indleveres, til ved Indle-

veringen at give Pakkens Afsender et Indleveringsbevis paa en Blanket som vedfójede Formular 2.
Afsenderen af en Pakke kan faa den sendt under Anbefaling

Registry.

mod herfor at erlægge det i Afsendelseslandet sædvanlige An-

befalingsgebyr ; paa Forlan gende kan han uden nogen Tillægsgebyr erholde et Modtagelsesbevis.

2968

JUNE 30. 1906 PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- DENMARK. AUGUST 15, 1906.

ARTICLE VI.

ARTIKEL VI.

Notice to addressee, The addressees of registered

articles shall be advised of the

Delivery.

arrival of a package addressed to them, by a notice from the postoffice of destination.
The packages shall be delivered to addressees at the postoffices of address in the country of destination free of charge for postage; but the customs duties

properly chargeable thereon shall be collected on delivery in accordance with the customs

regulations of the country of

destination ; and the Post- Office Department of the United States

may, at its option, levy and collect from the addressee in this country for interior service and

delivery a charge not exceeding five cents on each single parcel of whatever weight.

Anbefalede Pakkers Addressa-
ter skulle af Bestemmelsesposthuset underrettes om Ankomsten af en til dem adresseret Pakke.
Pakkerne skulle i Bestemmel-
seslandet undleveres Adressaterne paa Bestemmelsesposthuset uden Opkrævning af nogen Porto ; men de paa Pakkerne hvilende Toldafgifter skulle indkasseres ved Udleveringen overensstemmende med Bestem-melseslandets Toldforskrifter, og det staar de Forenede Staters Postvæsen frit for for Befordringen paa dets Postomraade af ankomne Pakker samt for ombaringen at opkræve hos Adressaten et Gebyr, der ikke maa overstige 5 Cents for hver enkelt Pakke uden Hensyn til Vægten.

ARTICLE VII.

ARTIKEL VII.

Transportation .

The packages shall be considered as a component part of the mails exchanged direct between the United States and Denmark, to be dispatched by the country of origin to the other at its cost and by such means as it provides, but must be forwarded, at the option of the dispatching office , either in boxes prepared especially for the purpose or in ordinary mail sacks , to be marked " Parcelspost, " and not to contain any other articles of mail matter, and to be securely sealed with wax, or otherwise, as may be mutually provided by regulations hereunder.

Return of bags, etc. Each country shall promptly.

return empty to the dispatching

office by next mail, all such bags

and boxes, but subject to other

regulations between the two Administrations .

Packing .

Although articles admitted un-

der this Convention will be transmitted as aforesaid between the

exchange offices , they should be

so carefully packed as to be safely transmitted in the open mails of

either country , both in going to the exchange office in the country

Pakkerne skulle betragtes som en Bestanddel af de mellem Dan-
mark og de Forenede Stater direkte udvekslede Poster, og de skulle fremsendes fra Afsendel-
seslandet paa dets Bekostning til det andet Land med saadanne Befordringsmidler, som det raader over; Pakkerne skulle efter det afsendende Posthus's Bestemmelse fremsendes enten i specielt for Ojemedet indrettede Kasser eller i almindelige Postsække, der mærkes " Pakkepost, " og som ikke maa indeholde andre Arter
Postforsendelser, og som skulle behórig forsegles eller lukkes paa anden Vis, hvorom der gensidig træffes nærmere Bestemmelser.
Hvert Land skal uopholdelig med næste Post til det afsendende
Posthus tilbagesende alle saadanne tomme Sækker og Kasser, medmindre anden Aftale træffes mellem de to Postbestyrelser.
Skónt de efter nærværende
Overenskomst tilstedelige Genstande skulle befordres some ovenfor nævnt mellem Udveks-
lingskontorerne , skulle de dog pakkes saa omhyggeligt, at de trygt kunne befordres stykkevis med den almindelige Post gennem

JUNE 30, 1906, PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- DENMARK. AUGUST 15, 1906.

2969

of origin and to the office of address in the country of destination.
Each dispatch of a parcels-post mail must be accompanied by a descriptive list , in duplicate, of all the packages sent, showing distinctly the list number of each parcel, the name of the sender, the name of the addressee with address of destination, and the declared contents and value ; and must be inclosed in one of the boxes or sacks of such . dispatch. [ See Form 3 annexed hereto. ] .

et af Landene, baade under- Vejs ttiill Afsendelseslandets Udvekslingskontor og til Adresseposthuset i Bestemmelseslandet.
Hver afsendt Pakkepost skal ledsages af et Karte in duplo over alle de afsendte Pakker, i hvilket særskilt anfóres for hver Pakke dens Lóbenummer, Afsenderens Navn, Adressatens Navn og
Adresse, det angivne Indhold og dettes Værdi ; Kartet indlægges i en af Kasserne eller Sækkene i vedkommende Post. (See vedfójede Formular 3. )

Descriptive list. Post, p. 2373.

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTIKEL VIII.

As soon as the mail shall have reached the office of destination, that office shall check the contents of the mail .
In the event of the parcel bill not having been received, a substitute should be at once prepared.
Any errors in the entries on the parcel bill which may be discovered, should , after verification by a second officer, be corrected, and noted for report to the dispatching office on a form " Verification certificate, "
which should be sent in a special envelope.
If a parcel advised on the bill
be not received, after the non-. receipt has been verified by a second officer, the entry on the bill should be canceled and the fact reported at once.
Should a parcel be received in a damaged or imperfect condition, full particulars should be reported on the same form.
If no verification certificate or
note of error be received, a parcels- mail shall be considered as duly delivered , having been found on examination correct in all respects.

Saasnart Posten er ankom-
men til Bestemmelsesposthuset, skall dette kontrollere dens Indhold.
Modtages ikke nogen Pakkepostkarte, skal der straks af Bestemmelsesposthuset udfærdiges et Nód - Karte.
Mulige Fejl i Pakkepostkartets Anfórsler, der maatte opdages, skulle efter at være konstaterede af endnu en Postfunktionærberigtiges og meldes det afsendende Kontor i en " Tilbagemeldelse , " der skal sendes i en særlig Konvolut.

Receipt of mail. Parcel bill. Errors.

Hvis en paa Kartet opfórt Nonreceipt of parPakke mangler, skal Anfórslen cels. paa Kartet, efter at Manglen er konstateret af endnu en Postfunktionær, udstryges , og Sagen straks tilbagemeldes.
Modtages en Pakke i beskadiget Damaged parcels. eller mangelfuld Stand , skal Tilba-
gemeldelse udstedes med Angivelse af alle nærmere Omstændigheder.
Modtages ingen Tilbagemeldelse Correct mails. ellerMelding om Fejl, skal vedkommende Pakkepost betragtes som rigtig afleveret og ved Undersógelsen befundet i Orden i enhver Henseende.

ARTICLE IX,

ARTIKEL IX .

If a parcel cannot be delivered as addressed or is refused by
the addressee , the sender shall be consulted (through the Administration of the country of

Hvis en Pakke ikke kan udleveres efterAdressen elle blivernægtet Modtagelse af Adressaten , skal Afsenderen (gennem Afsendelseslandets Postbestyrelse ) forespórges

Failure to deliver.

2970

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- DENMARK . JUNE 30, 1906. AUGUST 15, 1906.

origin) as to its disposal. If om, hvad han ónsker foretaget med within two months of the dis- den. Hvis Bestemmelsesposthuset patch of the notice of non- ikke inden 2 maaneder efter Afsen-

delivery the office of destination delsen af denne Meddelelse om en

shall not have received instruc- Pakkes Ubesórgelighed har modta-

tions from the sender the parcel · get Afsenderens Forholdsordre, shall be treated as abandoned. Behandlet Pakken , som om Adres-

Prohibited articles. Provided, however, that par-

Ante, p. 2966.

cels prohibited by Article II and

those which do not conform to

saten har givet Afkald paa den. Dog skulle Pakker, som i Hen-
hold til Artikel II ikke maa befordres, og Pakker, som ikke

the conditions as to size, weight and value, prescribed by said Article, shall not necessarily be

opfylde de i nævnte Artikel foreskrevne Betingelser med Hensyn til Stórrelse, Vægt og Værdi ,

returned to the country of origin, but may be disposed of, without recourse, in accordance with the customs laws and regula-

ikke nódvendigvis tilbagesendes til Afsendelseslandet, men der kan endeligt disponeres over dem
overensstemmende med Bestem-

tions of the country of destina-

tion.

:

Destruction, etc., of When the contents of a parcel perishable articles. which cannot be delivered are

meleslandet's Toldlove og Reglementer.
Naar Indholdet af en ubesór-
gelig Pakke let kan fordærves

liable to deterioration or corruption, they may be destroyed at once, if necessary, or if expedient, sold, without previous notice or judicial formality, for the benefit of the right person, the particulars of each sale being noticed by one postoffice to the other.

eller ódelægges, kan det om nódvendigt straks tilintetgóres eller sælges- hvis dette findes hen-
sigtsmæssigt uden forudgaaende Varsel eller restlige Formaliteter til Fordel for den paagældende Ejer; de nærmere Omstændigheder ved Salget skal af det ene Posthus meldes det andet.

ARTICLE X.

ARTIKEL X.

Noresponsibility for loss.

The Post-Office Department of

1

either of the contracting countries

will not be responsible for the loss

or damage of any package; but either country is at liberty to in-

demnify the sender of any package which may be lost or destroyed on its territory.

Postbestyrelserne i de kontraherende Lande ere ikke ansvar-
lige for Tab eller Beskadigelse af nogen Pakke, men det staar hvert af de to Lande frit for at
udbetale Erstatning til Afsenderen af en Pakke, der maatte gaa tabt eller blive ódelagt indenfor dets Postomraade.

ARTICLE XI.

ARTIKEL XI.

Fees to be returned. Each country shall retain to its own use the whole of the postages, registration and delivery fees, it collects on said packages ; consequently, this Convention will give rise to no separate accounts between the two countries.

Hvert Land skal for egen Regning udelt beholde den Porto og de Anbefalings og Udleveringsgebyrer, som det opkræver for de omhandlede Pakker; som Fólge heraf vil denne Overenskomst ikke give Anledning til nogen særlig Afregning mellem de to Lande.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTIKEL XII.

Furtherregulations. The Postmaster General of the United States of America , and the Directorate General of Posts

Postbestyrelsen i Danmark og General - Postmesteren i de Forenede Stater i Amerika skal have

JUNE 30, 1906. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- DENMARK . AUGUST 15, 1906.

2971

of Denmark, shall have authority to jointly make such further regulations of order and detail as may
be found necessary to carry out the present Convention from time to time; and may, by agreement, prescribe conditions for the admission in packages exchanged under this Convention of any of the articles prohibited by Article II .

Bemyndigelse til i Fællesskab at udfærdige yderligere Detailbestemmelser; der efterhaanden
maatte findes nódvendige for at bringe denne Overenskomst til Udfrelse ; de kunne derhos efter Overenskomst foreskrive Betingelser for Tilstedeligheden af nogen af de i Artikel 11 forbudte Genstande i Pakker, udvekselde i Henhold til denne Overenskomst.

Ante, p. 2966.

ARTICLE XIII .

ARTIKEL XIII.

This Convention shall take effect and operations thereunder shall begin on the first day of October 1906 ; and shall continue in force until terminated by mutual agreement, but may be annulled at the desire of either Department, upon six months' previous notice given to the other.
Done in duplicate, and signed at Washington , the 15th day of August 1906, and in Copenhagen, the 30 day of June 1906

Denne Overenskomst skal træde
i Kraft og dens Bestemmelser komme til Udfórelse den 1. Oktober 1906 , og skal blive gældende, indtil den ophæves efter gensidig Overenskomst ; dog kan den træde
ud af Kraft paa Forlangede af en af Postbestyrelserne, naar denne giver den anden Varsel 6 Maander i Forvejen.
Udfærdiget i duplo og undertegnet i Kjóbenhavn den 30 Juni 1906, og i Washington den 15 August 15, 1906.

Duration, etc. Signatures.

[Denmark seal . ]

KIÖRBOE .

[Seal of the Post-Office Department of the U. S. ]

GEO. B. CORTELYOU, Postmaster- General of the United
States of America.

The foregoing Parcels- Post Convention between the United States

of America and Denmark has been negotiated and concluded with my

advice and consent, and is hereby approved and ratified.

In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United States to

be hereunto affixed.

[SEAL . ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

By the President : ROBERT BACON, Acting Secretary of State.

Ratification .

WASHINGTON, August 15, 1906.

2972 Form No. 1.

JUNE 30, 1906. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- DENMARK. AUGUST 15, 1906.
FORM No. 1. A.
Parcels-Post between the United States and Denmark.

Date Stamp.

FORM OF CUSTOMS DECLARATION.

Place to which
the parcel is addressed .

Description of
parcel: [State whether box,
bag, basket, etc.]

Contents.

Total Value. Per cent. customs
charges.

Total.

Date of posting:

19..; signature and address of sender

For use of Post Office only, and to be filled up at the office of exchange:

Parcel Bill No..

No. ofrates prepaid .......

; Entry No.

B

[country of origin . ] Parcels-Post from ...

The import duty assessed by an officer of customs on contents of this parcel amounts

to....

which must be paid before the parcel is delivered.

Date Stamp.

C.
[country of origin. ] Parcels- Post from ..
This parcel has been passed by an officer of customs and must be delivered FREE OF CHARGE.

Customs Officer.
Date Stamp.

Form No. 2.

FORM NO. 2. Parcels- Post. A parcel addressed as under has been posted here this day:
Office stamp.
This certificate is given to inform the sender of the posting of a parcel , and does not indicate that any liability in respect of such parcel attaches to the Postal Administration.

JUNE 30, 1906. PARCELS-POST CONVENTION-DENMARK. AUGUST 15, 1906.
FORM NO. 3.

2973 Form No. 3.

Date stamp of dispatching exchange Post
Office.

Date stamp of

[country oforigin.] [country ofdestination.] receiving

Parcels from ....

for.

exchange

Post Office.

Parcel Bill No......, dated...... 19..; perS. S. ".

*Sheet No....

Origin of Name of Address of parcel. Declared Declared

parcel. sender.

contents. value.

Observations.

NEon.try roNafutemsber
.prepaid

Totals...

When more than one sheet is required for the entry of the parcels sent by the mail, it will be sufficient ifthe undermentioned particulars are entered on the last sheet of the Parcel Bill.

Total number of parcels sent by the mail [country of destination.]
to..
Number ofboxes or other receptacles forming the mail..........................
Signature of postal official at the dispatching exchange post office.

Fotal weight of mail . Deduct weight of receptacles.....
Net weight of parcels.....

Signature of postal official at the receiving exchange post office.

2974

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION - ECUADOR. DECEMBER 28 , 1906 .

December 28, 1906. Parcels- Post Convention between the United States of America and the Republic of Ecuador.

Preamble.

For the purpose of making better postal arrangements between the United States of America and the Republic of Ecuador, the undersigned George Bruce Cortelyou, Postmaster- General of the United States of America, and L. F. Carbo, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary : of Ecuador to the United States of
America, by virtue of authority vested in them, have agreed upon the following Articles for the establishment of a Parcels-Post System of exchanges between the two countries.

Con el objeto de establecer mejores arreglos postales entre la República del Ecuador y los Estados Unidos de América, los infrascritos, L. F. Carbo, Enviado Extraordinario y Ministro Plenipotenciario del Ecuador en los Estados Unidos de América, y George Bruce Cortelyou, Administrador General de Correos de los
Estados Unidos de América, en virtud de la autorización de que están investidos, han convenido en los siguientes artículos para establecer el cambio de Paquetes Postales entre los dos países.

ARTICLE I

ARTÍCULO I.

Extent of conven- The provisions of this Convention.
tion relate only to parcels of mail matter to be exchanged by the system herein provided for, and do not affect the arrangements
now existing under the Universal Postal Convention, which will continue as heretofore; and all the
agreements hereinafter contained
apply exclusively to mails exchanged under these Articles.

Las estipulaciones de esta Convención se refieren únicamente á las encomiendas que se remitan de conformidad con el plan que en ella se establece, y en nada afectarán los arreglos que ahora existen bajo la Convención de la Unión Postal Universal, los cuales continuarán vigentes como lo están ahora ; y todas las estipulaciones contenidas en la presente Convención se aplicarán exclusivamente á las balijas que se cambien conforme á estos artículos.

ARTICLE II.

ARTÍCULO II.

Articles to mails.

admitted 1. There shall be admitted to
the mails exchanged under this . Convention , articles of merchandise and mail matter (except letters, postcards, and written matter) of all kinds that are admitted under any conditions to the domestic mails of the country of origin, except that no packet may exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) or ten Ecuadorian cóndores, gold, in value, eleven pounds (or five kilograms) in weight, nor the follow. ing dimensions : greatest length in

1. Se admitarán en las balijas
que se cambien conforme á esta Convención , mercancías y objetos trasmisibles por el correo, de cualquier género que sean (exceptuan- . do cartas, tarjetas postales y todo papel escrito), que se admitan conforme á los reglamentos que rigen respecto de las balijas domésticas del país de origen, con tal que ningún paquete exceda de ($50.00) 6 10 cóndores ecuatorianos , oro, en valor ; once libras (ó cinco kilogramos) de peso, ni de las dimen-

PARCELS - POST CONVENTION-ECUADOR. DECEMBER 28 , 1906 .

2975

any direction , three feet six inches siones siguientes : Mayor longitud (or one hundred and five centi- en cualquiera direccion, tres pies.

meters); greatest length and girth seis pulgadas (ó ciento cinco cen-

combined, six feet (or one hundred tímetros) ; mayor longitud y groand eighty centimeters) ; and must sor combinados, seis pies (ó ciento

be so wrapped or enclosed as to ochenta centímetros); debiendo permit their contents to be easily estar envueltos ó cubiertos de

examined by postmasters and cus- manera que permitan que su contoms officers; and except that the tenido sea fácilmente examinado

following articles are prohibited por los administradores de correos

admission to the mails exchanged y de aduanas ; y exceptuándose,

under this Convention:

además, los artículos que siguen,

cuya admisión queda prohibida en

las balijas que se cambien entre

Publications which violate the

los dos países, conforme á esta Convención, á saber:
Publicaciones que violen las

Articles prohibited.

copy-right laws of the country of leyes de propiedad literaria del

destination; poisons and explosive país de destino ; venenos y mate-

J

or inflammable substances ; fatty rias explosivas ó inflamables ; sus-

substances, liquids and those which tancias grasosas, liquidas ó de

easily liquefy, confections and fácil liquefacción , dulces y pastas ; pastes, live and dead animals, ex- animales vivos ó muertos, excep-

cept dead insects and reptiles thoroughly dried; fruits and vegetables which will easily decompose, and substances which exhale a bad

tuando insectos y reptiles perfectamente disecados; frutas y vegetales que puedan decomponerse fácilmente, sustancias que ex-

odor; lottery tickets, lottery advertisements or circulars; all obscene or immoral articles ; articles

halen mal olor; billetes, noticias ó circulares de lotería ; objetos obscenos ó imorales, artículos que

which may destroy or in any way dainage the mails, or injure the persons handling them .
2. All admissible articles of merchandise mailed in one country

puedan destruir ó de alguna manera
dañar las balijas, ó causar per-
juicio á las personas que las manejen .
2. Todos los artículos admisi- Freedom from inspection .
bles de mercancías que se deposi-

for the other, or received in one ten en el Correo de un país con

country from the other, shall be destino al otro, ó que se reciban free from any detention or inspec- en un país procedentes del otro, no

tion whatever, except such as is estarán sujetos á otra detención ó

required for collection of customs inspección sino solamente á la que

duties ; and shall be forwarded by fuere necesaria para cobrar los de-

the most speedy means to their rechos aduaneros , y se despacharán

destination, being subject in their á su destino por la vía más rápida,

:

transmission to the laws and regu- quedando sujetos en su trasmisión

lations of each country respec- á las leyes y reglamentos de cada

tively.

país respectivamente.

ARTICLE III.

ARTÍCULO III.

1. A letter or communication of the nature of personal correspondence must not accompany, be written on, or enclosed with any parcel.
2. If such be found, the letter will be placed in the mails, if separable, and if the communication be inseparably attached,

1. Ninguna carta ó comunica- Letters must not accompany parcels.
ción que tenga el carácter de correspondencia personal, podrá acompañar al paquete, ya sea que esté escrita sobre él, 6 incluida en el mismo .
2. Si se encontrare alguna carta, Rejection. se pondrá en el correo , si pudiere separarse, y si la comunicación estuviere adherida de manera que no

2976

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION-ECUADOR. DECEMBER 28, 1906.

Address.

the whole package will be re-
jected. If, however, any such should inadvertently be for
warded, the country of destination will collect upon the letter or letters double rates of postage
according to the Universal Postal Convention .
3. No parcel may contain packages intended for delivery at an address other than the one borne
by the parcel itself. If such enclosed packages be detected, they must be sent forward singly, charged with new and distinct parcels-post rates.

se pueda separar, se desechará el paquete entero. Sin embargo, si alguna carta fuere enviada inadvertidamente, el país de destino cobrará doble porte por ella, conforme á la Convención Postal Universal .
3. Ningún paquete podrá contener encomiendas con dirección diferente de la que aparezca en la cubierta de aquel Si se encontrasen tales encomiendas, deberán remitirse separadamente cobrando nuevo y distinto porte por cada una de ellas.

ARTICLE IV.

ARTÍCULO IV.

Rates of postage. Delivery.

1. The following rates of post-
age shall in all cases be required to be fully prepaid with postage stamps of the country of origin, viz:
2. In the United States ; for a
parcel not exceeding one pound or four hundred and sixty grams in weight, twenty cents, and for each additional one pound or four hundred and sixty grams or fraction thereof, twenty cents; and
In the Republic of Ecuador : for a parcel not exceeding one pound (or four hundred and sixty grams) in weight, fifty milesimos of an
Ecuadorian cóndor, gold, and for each additional one pound (or four hundred and sixty grams), or fra tion thereof, fifty milesimos de cóndor, Equadorian gold.
3. The parcels shall be promptly delivered to addressees at the post offices of address in the country of destination , free of charge for postage; but the country of destination may, at its option, levy and collect from the addressee for interior service and delivery a charge the amount of which is to be fixed according to its own regulations, but which shall in no case exceed five cents inthe United States nor 50 milesimos of an Ecuadorian cóndor, gold, in Ecuador for each parcel whatever its weight.

1. Se exigirá, en todo caso, el pago previo y total del porte en estampillas del correo del país de origen, como siguen:
2. En la República del Ecuador, por un paquete que no exceda del peso de una libra (ó cuatrocientos sesenta gramos) cincuenta milésimos de cóndor ecuatoriano, oro, y por cada libra adicional (ó cuatrocientos sesenta gramos
adicionales), ó fracción de este peso, cincuenta milésimos de cóndor ecuatoriano, oro; y en los Estados Unidos , por un paquete que no exceda del peso de una libra (ó cuatrocientos sesenta gramos) y por cada libra adicional (ó cuatro cientos sesenta gramos) , ó fracción de este peso, veinte centavos.¸
3. Los paquetes se entregarán sin tardanza á las personas á quienes se dirijan, en la oficina de Correos á donde fueren dirigidos, en el país de su destino, libres de todo recargo por porte de correo; pero el país del destino puede imponer y cobrar á la persona á quien se dirija el paquete, y en compensación del servicio interior y de entrega, un recargo cuyo monto se fijará según sus propios reglamentos ; pero el cual en ningún caso excederá de cinco centavos en los Estados Unidos ni de cincuenta milésimos de cóndor ecuatoriano, oro, en el Ecuador por cada paquete, cualquiera que fuere su peso,

PARCELS -POST CONVENTION - ECUADOR. DECEMBER 28, 1906.

2977

ARTICLE V.

ARTÍCULO V.

1. The sender will, at the time
of mailing the parcel, receive from the post office where the parcel is mailed, a " certificate of mailing " on a form like Form I annexed hereto.
2. The sender of a parcel may
have the same registered by paying, in addition to the postage, the registration fee required for registered articles in the country of origin.
3. An acknowledgment of the delivery of a registered parcel shall be returned to the sender when requested; but either country may require of the sender prepayment of a fee therefor not exceeding five cents or ten milesimos of an Ecuadorian cóndor, gold.
4. The addressees of a registered parcel shall be advised of the arrival of the parcel by a notice from the post office of destination .

1. Al depositar en el Correo un Receipts.

paquete, se entregará al remitente un Certificado de Envío " de la
oficina de correos que lo recibió , conforme al modelo anexo No. 1.

Post, p . 2981 .

2. El remitente de un paquete podrá certificarlo, pagando, además del porte de correo, el valor de la certificación que por artículos certificados se cobre en el país de su origen.
3. Se enviará al remitente cuan-
do así lo solicite, una constancia de la entrega hecha del paquete certificado; pero cada país puede exigir del remitente el pago previo de un derecho por ese servicio, que no exceda de cinco centavos ó diez milésimos de cóndor ecuatoriano, oro.
4. La oficina de correos de des-
tino dará aviso de la legada del paquete certificado á la persona á quien fuere dirigido .

Registry. Return receipt.
Notice to addressee

ARTICLE VI .

ARTÍCULO VI.

1. The sender of each parcel shall make a Customs Declaration , pasted upon or attached to the parcel, upon a special Form_provided for he purpose (See Form 2 annexed hereto) giving a general description of the parcel, its address , an accurate statement of the contents and value, date of mailing, and the sender's signature and place of residence.
2. The parcels in question shall be subject in the country of destination to all customs duties and all customs regulations in force in that country for the protection of its Customs Revenues ; and the customs duties properly chargeable thereon shall be collected on
delivery, in accordance with the customs regulations of the country of destination; but neither sender nor addressee shall be subject to the payment of any charge for fines or penalties on account of failure to comply with any customs regulations.

1. Elremitente de cada paquete tiConu. stoms declarahará una declaración aduanera que e fijará ó adherirá sobre la cubierta del mismo según la fórmula especial que se le suministrará para Post, p. 2982.

ese objeto (véase el modelo anexo No. 2) , dando en ella una descripción general del paquete , una manifestación exacta de su contenido y valor, fecha del envío , firma y lugar de residencia del remitente,
2. Estos paquetes quedarán su-

Collection of duties.

jetos en el país de su destino á todos los reglamentos y derechos aduaneros que estuvieren vigentes en el mismo país, para proteger' las rentas de sus aduanas ; y Tos

derechos aduaneros que debidamente corresponda cobrar sobre

los mismos paquetes, serán cobrados al entregarse éstos , de acuerdo con los reglamentos aduaneros del país de destino ; pero ni el remitente ni el destinatario podrán ser obligados al pago de multas ó penas por haberse dejado de cumplir algún reglamento aduanero.

ARTICLE VII.

ARTÍCULO VII.

Each country shall retain to its own use, the whole of the postages,

Cada país percibirá para sí, el total del porte de correc , de les

Fees to be retained .

2978

PARCELS - POST CONVENTION - ECUADOR. DECEMBER 28, 1906.

registration and delivery fees, it collects on said parcels ; consequently, this Convention will give rise to no separate accounts between the two countries.

derechos de certificación y de entrega que colecte sobre dichos paquetes; y en consecuencia, esta Convención no motivará cuentas separadas entre los dos países.

ARTICLE VIII.

ARTÍCULO VIII .

Transportation .

1. The parcels shall be considered as a component part of the mails exchanged direct between the United States of America and the Republic of Ecuador, to be despatched to destination by the country of origin at its cost and by such means as it provides ; but must be forwarded , at the option of the despatching office, either in boxes prepared expressly for the service, or in ordinary mail sacks marked " Parcels -Post " and se-
curely sealed with wax or otherwise as may be mutually provided by regulations hereunder.

Return of bags, etc. 2. Each country shall return empty to the despatching office by next mail, all such boxes or sacks.

Packing .

3. Although articles admitted under this Convention will be transmitted as aforesaid between
the exchange offices, they should be so carefully packed as to be safely transmitted in the ordinary mails of either country, both in going to the exchange office in the country of origin and to the office of address in the country of destination.

Descriptive list. Post, p. 2983.

4. Each despatch of a parcels-
post mail must be accompanied by a descriptive list in duplicate , of all the packages sent, showing distinctly the list number of each parcel, the name of the sender, the name of the addressee with address of destination, and the declared contents and value ; and must be enclosed in one of the boxes or sacks of such despatch. (See Form 3, annexed hereto . )

1. Los paquetes se considerarán como parte integrante de las balijas cambiadas directamente entre los Estados Unidos de América y la República del Ecuador, y serán despachados á su destino por el páis de su origen al otro, á su costo y por los medios que él provea; pero deben despacharse, á opción de la oficina que los envíe, en cajas expresamente preparadas para el servico, ó en sacos ordinarios de correspondencia que se marcarán " Paquetes Postales " y se sellarán con la seguridad debida, con lacre, ó de alguna otra manera que se determine mutuamente por los reglamentos respectivos.
2. Cada país devolverá á la oficina de origen por el próximo correo, todas las cajas ó sacos recibidos .
3. Aunque los paquetes admitidos conforme á esta Convención se trasmitirán en la forma designada , entre las oficinas de cambio, deberán empaquetarse cuidadosamente, á fin de que puedan trasmitirse con debida seguridad en las balijas abiertas de un país, tanto á la oficina de correos de cambio en el país de su origen, como á la oficina de correos á donde se diri-
jan, en el país de su destino . 4. Cada envío de paquetes pos-
tales deberá ser acompañado de una lista descriptiva, hecha por duplicado , de todos los paquetes enviados, que exprese claramente el número de lista de cada paquete, el nombre del remitente , el nombre y dirección de la persona á quien se dirige y el contenido y valor declarado, y deberá incluirse en una de las cajas ó sacos del mismo envío. (Véase el modelo anexo No. 3. )

ARTICLE IX .

ARTÍCULO IX..

Exchange offices.

Exchanges of mails under this Convention shall, until otherwise mutually agreed upon , be effected through the Exchange Post Offices

El cambio de balijas conforme á esta Convención , se verificará. mientras no se acuerde otra cosa por las oficinas de correos de Nueva

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- ECUADOR. DECEMBER 28, 1906.

2979

at New York, New Orleans , and San Francisco, and Guayaquil, under such regulations relative to the details of the exchange, as may be mutually determined to be essential to the security and expedition of the mails and the protection of the Customs Revenues.

York, Nueva Orleans y San Francisco, y de Guayaquil , de conformidad con los reglamentos relativos . á los detalles de cambio que por mutuo convenio se determinen y se consideren como esenciales á la seguridad y expedición en el envío de las balijas y á la protección de los derechos aduaneros.

ARTICLE X.

ARTÍCULO X.

1. As soon as the mail shall have reached the exchange office of destination, that office shall check the contents of the mail.
2. In the event of the Parcel Bill not having been received, a substitute should at once be prepared.
3. Any errors in the entries on the Parcel Bill which may be discovered, should, after verification by a second officer, be corrected and noted for report to the despatching office or a " Verification Certificate," which should be sent in a special envelope.
4. If a parcel advised on the bill be not received, after the nonreceipt has been verified by a second officer the entry on the bill should be canceled , and the fact likewise reported at once.
5. If a parcel be observed to be insufficiently prepaid, it must not be taxed with deficient postage, but the circumstance must be reported on the " Verification Certificate " Form .
6. Should a parcel be received in a damaged or imperfect condition, full particulars shall be reported in the same manner.
7. If no " Verification Certificate " or note of error be received, a parcel mail shall be considered as duly delivered, having been found on examination correct in all respects.
ARTICLE XI.

1. La oficina de correos del país Receipt of mail.

del destino, verificará el contenido de la balija, tan luego como la reciba .
2. En el caso de que no se recibiere la lista de los paquetes en-

Parcel bill.

viados por el correo, se hará inmediatamente una que la sustituya.
3. Los errores que puedan haberse cometido y se descubrieren en la lista de los paquetes enviados por el correo, deben anotarse y corregirse después de haber sido verificados por un segundo empleado , y se comunicarán á la oficina remitente en el " Certificado

Errors.

de Comprobación " que le enviará bajo cubierta especial.
4. Si no se recibiere algún pa- Nonreceipt of parcel.
quete de los consignados en la lista, después de confirmada la omisión por un segundo empleado, se can-
celará la anotación respectiva de la lista y se informará de igual manera lo ocurrido.

5. Si apareciere un paquete insuficientemente franqueado , no deberá cargarse la insuficiencia, pero se dará cuenta del hecho en el

Insufficient postage.

" Certificado de Comprobación. "

6. Cuando se recibiere un paquete averiado ó en mal estado , se comunicarán en la misma manera detalles completos acerca de ello.
7. Si no se recibiere " Certifi-
cado de Comprobación ó aviso de error, se considerará que la balija de paquetes fué debidamente recibida, y que habiendo sido exami nada se encontró exacta bajo todos aspectos.
ARTICULO XI.

Damaged parcels. Correct mails.

1. If a parcel cannot be delivered as addressed, or is refused, itmust be returned without charge, directly to the despatching office

1. Si no pudiere entregarse un paquete á la persona á quien se dirige, ó si ésta rehusare recibirlo, se devolverá directamente y sin

Failure to deliver.

2980

PARCELS -POST CONVENTION- ECUADOR. DECEMBER 28, 1906. 

of exchange, at the expiration of thirty days from its receipt at the office of destination; and the country of origin may collect from the sender for the return of the parcel a sum equal to the postage when first mailed.
Disposal of perish- 2. When the contents of a parble articles.
cel which cannot be delivered are liable to deterioration or corruption, they may be destroyed at once, if necassary ; or, if expedient, sold, without previous notice or judicial formality, for the benefit of the right person, the particulars of each sale being noticed by one post office to the other.

recardo, á la oficina que lo des-
pachó, á la expiración de treinta días contados desde su recibo, por la oficina de destino, y el país de
origen puede cobraral remitente por la devolución del paquete, una suma igual al porte que pagó cuando lo puso primitivamente en el Correo.
2. Si el contenido de un paquete
que no fuere posible entregar pudiere deteriorarse ó descomponerse, podrá destruirse inmediatamente si esa medida fuere nece-
saria ; ó si se pudiere, se venderá, sin necesidad de aviso previo ó de formalidad judicial, para beneficio de la persona interesada ; y los detalles de la venta se comunicarán por una oficina de correos á la otra.

ARTICLE XII.

ARTÍCULO XII.

Nonresponsibility The Post-Office Department of for loss, etc.
either of the contracting countries will not be responsible for the loss or damage of any parcel. Consequently, no indemnity can be claimed by the sender or addressee in either country.
ARTICLE XIII.

El Departamento de Correos de cada uno de los países contratantes, no será responsable por la pérdida ó avería que sufra algún paquete. Por consiguiente no podrá reclamarse, por lo mismo, en ninguno de los dos países, indemnización alguna por parte del remitente, ni de la persona á quien vaya dirigido.
ARTÍCULO XIII .

Further regulations. The Postmaster General of the

United States of America , and the

Director General of Posts of the

Republic of Ecuador, may, by

agreement, except, on account of

insecurity inthe conveyance, or for other causes, certain post offices in either country from receiving or

dispatching parcels of merchandise as provided by this Convention ; and

shall have authority to jointlymake such further regulations of order

and detail, as may be found neces-

sary to carry out the present Convention from time to time; and may

by agreement prescribe conditions for the admission to the mails of

Ante, p. 2975.

any of the articles prohibited by Article II of this Convention.

El Administrador General de Correos de la Republica del Ecuador y el Administrador General de Correos de los Estados Unidos de América, pueden convenir en exceptuaralgunas oficinas postales de recebir ó despachar paquetes de mercaderías, según el presente Convenio, por falta de seguridad en la conducción , ó por otras causas, y tendrán autoridad para hacer de común acuerdo y tiempo en tiempo, aquelles reglamentos de orden y detalle que crean necesarios para cumplir debidamente las prescripciones de la presente Convención, así como para establecer la admisión en las balijas de cualquiera de los artículos prohibidos por el Artículo II de esta Convención.

Duration, etu.

ARTICLE XIV.

ARTÍCULO XIV .

This Convention shall be ratified

Esta Convención se ratificará

by the contracting countries in por los países contratantes de

PARCELS -POST CONVENTION- ECUADOR. DECEMBER 28 , 1906.

2981

accordance with their respective laws. Once ratified, it shall take
effect, and operations thereunder shall begin on the first day of March, one thousand nine hundred and seven; and shall continue in

acuerdo con sus respectivas leyes. Una vez ratificada, comenzará á tener efecto el día primero de Marzo de mil novecientos siete, y continuará en vigor hasta que se termine por consentimiento mutuo ;

force until terminated by mutual agreement, but may be annulled at the desire of either Department, upon six months previous notice given to the other.
Done in duplicate, and signed
at Washington the 28th day of December, 1906.

pero podrá anularse , con la notiticación de uno de los Departamentos de Correos hecha al otro, con seis meses de anticipación.
Hecho por duplicado y firmado en Washington el día 28 de Diciembre de 1906.

[L. S. ]

GEO. B. CORTELYOU,

[ L. 8.]

Postmaster- General of the United States of America. L. F. CARBO,

Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of Ecuador in the United States of America.

Signatures.

The foregoing Parcels- Post Convention between the United States. of America and the Republic of Ecuador has been negotiated and
concluded with my advice and consent, and is hereby approved and ratified .

In testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed .

[ SEAL . ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT,

Secretary of State.

WASHINGTON, January 2, 1907.

Date stamp.

FORM NO. 1 . A.
Parcels-post between the United States and Ecuador.
FORM OF CUSTOMS DECLARATION.

Form No. 1.
Place to which the parcel is addressed .

Description of parvel: [State whether box, bag, basket, ete ]

Contents.

Value. Per cent. Total customs charges.

Total.

Date of posting ......, 19 .; signature and address of sender {
For use of post-office only and to be filled up at the office of exchange : Parcel bill No. ..; No. of rates prepaid ...... ; entry No.

B. [country of origin .] Parcels-post from........ The import duty assessed by an officer of customs on contents of this parcel amounts1 to ......, which must be paid before the parcel is delivered.

Date stamp.

Customs Officer.

2982

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- ECUADOR. DECEMBER 28, 1906.

C. [country of origin. ] Parcels-post from .... This parcel has been passed by an officer of customs and must be delivered FREE OF CHARGE.

Date stamp.

Form No. 2.

FORM NO. 2. Parcels-post. A parcel addressed as under has been posted here this day :

Office stamp.

Form No. 3.

This certificate is given to inform the sender of the posting of a parcel, and does not indicate that any liability in respect of such parcel attaches to the Postal Administration.

Date stamp of
dispatching exchange post-
office.

FORM NO. 3.

[country of origin . ] [country of destination. ]

Parcels from .

.for.

Date stamp of
receiving
exchange postoffice.

Parcel bill No.

dated ...., 19 .. ; per S. S. ".

* Sheet No.

Entry

Origin of

Name of

Address of parcel .

Declared

Declared

Number of rates

No.

sender.

contents. value.

parcel.

prepaid.

Observations.

Totals ..

* When more than one sheet is required for the entry of the parcels sent by the mail, it will be sufficient ifthe undermentioned particulars are entered on the last sheet of the parcel bill.

Total number of parcels sent by the [country of destination.]
mail to ....

Total weight of mail ............. Deduct weight of receptacles

Number of boxes or other receptacles forming the mail .......

Net weight of parcels

Signature of postal official at the dispatching exchange post-office.

Signature of postal official at the receiving exchange post-office.

DECEMBER 13, 1906, PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- BERMUDA. JANUARY 15, 1907.

2983

Parcel Post Agreement between the United States of America and the December 13, 1906.

British colony of Bermuda.

January 15, 1907.

The Postmaster-General of the United States of America and the Postmaster of the British Colony of Bermuda, being desirous of establishing a regular direct exchange of parcels between the United States of America and Bermuda, have agreed, on behalf of their respective Governments, to the following Articles :-

Preamble.

ARTICLE I.

The provisions of this Agreement relate only to parcels of mail tiEoxnt. ent of convenmatter to be exchanged by the system herein provided for, and do not affect the arrangements now existing under the Universal Postal Union Convention , which will continue as heretofore ; and all the agreements hereinafter contained apply exclusively to mails exchanged under these Articles.
ARTICLE II.

1. There shall be admitted to the mails exchanged under this Agree- thAertmiacilless. admitted to ment articles of merchandise and mail matter-except letters , postcards, and written matter-of all kinds, that are admitted under any

conditions to the domestic mails of the country of origin, except that

no packet may exceed 11 pounds (or 5 kilograms) in weight, nor the

following dimensions: Greatest length in any direction, three feet six

inches ; greatest length and girth combined, six feet ; and must be so wrapped or inclosed as to permit their contents to be easily examined

by postmasters and customs officers; and except that the following articles are prohibited admission to the mails exchanged under this

Agreement:Articles prohibited.
Publications which violate the copyright laws of the country of

destination; poisons, and explosive or inflammable substances ; fatty

substances, liquids and those which easily liquefy, confections and

pastes; live or dead animals, except dead insects and reptiles when

thoroughly dried ; fruits and vegetables which easily decompose, and

substances which exhale a bad odour; lottery tickets , lottery advertisements , or lottery circulars ; all obscene or immoral articles ; articles

which may in any way damage or destroy the mails or injure the per-

sons handling them .

Freedom from in-

2. All admissible articles of merchandise mailed in one country for spection.

the other, or received in one country from the other, shall be free

from any detention or inspection whatever, except such as is required

for collection of customs duties , and shall be forwarded by the most speedy means to their destination, being subject in their transmission

to the laws and regulations of each conntry, respectively.

ARTICLE III.

1. A letter or communication of the nature of personal correspond- acLceottmeprasn, yetpc.a,rcneolt. to ence must not accompany , be written on , or inclosed with any parcel.
VOL XXXIV, PT 3--10 .

2984

DECEMBER 13, 1906, PARCELS-POST CONVENTION-BERMUDA. JANUARY 15, 1907.

Rejection. Address.

2. If such be found, the letter will be placed in the mails if separable, and if the communication be inseparably attached the whole package will be rejected . If, however, any such should inadvertently be forwarded, the country of destination will collect upon the letter or letters double rates of postage, according to the Universal Postal Union Convention.
3. No parcel may contain packages intended for delivery at an address other than that borne by the parcel itself. If such inclosed packages be detected , they must be sent forward singly, charged with new and distinct parcel-post rates.

Rates of postage. Delivery .

ARTICLE IV.
1. The following rates of postage shall in all cases be required to be fully prepaid with postage stamps of the country of origin, viz.:
2. In the United States, for a parcel not exceeding one pound in weight, 12 cents ; and for each additional pound, or fraction of a pound, 12 cents.
3. In Bermuda, for a parcel not exceeding one pound in weight, sixpence ; and for each additional pound, or fraction of a pound, sixpence.
4. The parcels shall be promptly delivered to addressees at the postoffices of address in the country of destination free of charge for postage; but the country of destination may, at its option, levy and collect from the addressee for interior service and delivery a charge the amount of which is to be fixed according to its own regulations, but which shall in no case exceed 5 cents or two and one-half pence for
each parcel, whatever its weight.

ARTICLE V.

11

Receipt.

1 The sender will, at the time of mailing the package, receive a cer-

Post, p. 2987. Registry.

tificate of mailing from the post- office where the package is mailed on
a form like Form 1 annexed hereto.
" 2. The sender of a package may have the same registered in accord-

Return receipt.

ance with the regulations of the country of origin. 3. An acknowledgment of the delivery of a registered article shall

be returned to the sender when requested ; but either country may

require of the sender prepayment of a fee therefor not exceeding five

cents or two and one-half pence.

1.

Notice to addressee. 4. The addressees of registered articles shall be advised of the

arrival of a package addressed to them by a notice from the post- office

of destination.

:  ,

ARTICLE VI.

Customs declaration.

1. The sender of each parcel shall make a customs declaration , pasted

upon or attached to the package, upon a special form provided for the

Post, p. 2987.

purpose (see Form 2 annexed hereto), giving a general description of

the parcel, an accurate statement of its contents and value, date of

mailing, and the sender's signature and place of residence and place of address. Collection of duties. 2. The parcels in question shall be subject in the country of desti-

nation to all customs duties and all customs regulations in force in

that country, for the protection of its customs revenues ; and the

customs duties properly chargeable thereon shall be collected on deliv-

ery in accordance with the customs regulations of the country of

destination.

ARTICLE VII.

Fees to be retained. Each country shall retain to its own use the whole of the postages,
registration and delivery fees, it collects on said parcels ; consequently, this Convention will give rise to no separate accounts between the two countries.

PARCELS-POST CONVENTION- BERMUDA. ARTICLE VIII.

DECEMBER 13, 1906. JANUARY 15, 1907.

2985

1. The parcels shall be considered as a component part of the mails exchanged direct between the United States and Bermuda, to be despatched to destination by the country of origin at its cost and by such
means as it provides; but must be forwarded at the option of the despatching office, either in boxes prepared expressly for the purpose or
in ordinary mail sacks, marked " parcels-post , " and securely sealed with wax, or otherwise, as may be mutually provided by regulations hereunder.

Transportation.

2. Each country shall promptly return empty to the despatching office by next mail all such bags and boxes .
3. Although articles admitted under this Agreement will be transmitted as aforesaid between the exchange offices, they should be so
carefully packed as to be safely transmitted in the open mails of either
country, both in going to the exchange office in the country of origin and to the office of address in the country of destination.

Return of bags, etc. Packing.

4. Each despatch of a parcels-post mail must be accompanied by a descriptive list, in duplicate, of all the parcels sent, showing distinctly the list number of each parcel, the name of the sender, the name of the addressee, with address of destination , and the declared contents and value ; and must be enclosed in one of the boxes or sacks of such
despatch. (See Form 3 annexed hereto. )

Descriptive list. Post, p. 2988.

ARTICLE IX.

Exchanges of mails under this Agreement from any place in either country to any place in the other, shall be effected through the postoffices of both countries already designated as exchange post- offices
or through such others as may be hereafter agreed upon ; under such regulations relative to the details of the exchange as may be mutually determined to be essential to the security and expedition of the mails and the protection of the customs revenues.

Exchange offices.

ARTICLE X.

1. As soon as the mail shall have reached the office of destination, Receipt of mail. that office shall check the contents of the mail.

2. In the event of the parcel bill not having been received a substitute should be at once prepared.
3. Any errors in the entries on the parcel bill which may be discovered, should, after verification by a second officer, be corrected and noted for report to the despatching office on a form " Verification Certificate," which should be sent in a special envelope .

Parcel bill. Errors.

4. If a parcel advised on the bill be not received, after the non-

receipt has been verified by a second officer the entry on the bill should Nonreceipt of par-

be cancelled and the fact reported at once.

cel.

5. If a parcel be observed to be insufficiently prepaid, it must not be taxed with deficient postage, but the circumstance must be reported on the verification certificate form.

Insufficient postage.

6. Should a parcel be received in a damaged or imperfect condition, full particulars should be reported on the same form.
7. If no verification certificate or note of error be received, a parcel
mail shall be considered as duly delivered , having been found on examination correct in all respects .

Damage to parcels. Correct mails.

ARTICLE XI.

1. If a parcel cannot be delivered as addressed, or is refused , it must be returned without charge, directly to the despatching office of exchange, at the expiration of thirty days from its receipt at the office

Failure to deliver.

2986

PARCELS- POST CONVENTION-BERMUDA. DECEMBER 13, 1906. JANUARY 15, 1907.

of destination; and the country of origin may collect from the sender

Ante, p. 2983.

for the return of the parcel, a sum equal to the postage when first mailed : Provided , however, that parcels prohibited by Article II, and those which do not conform to the conditions as to size , weight, and

value prescribed by said Article, shall not be returned to the country

of origin, but may be disposed of, without recourse, in accordance

with the customs laws and regulations of the country of destination. Perishable articles. 2. When the contents of a parcel which cannot be delivered are
liable to deterioration or corruption, they may be destroyed at once

if necessary, or, if expedient, sold, without previous notice or judicial

Reforwarding.

formality, for the benefit of the right person, the particulars of each sale being noticed by one post-office to the other.
3. An order for re-direction or re-forwarding must be accompanied by the amount due for postage necessary for the return of the article to the office of origin, at the ordinary parcel rates.

ARTICLE XII.

Nonresponsibility for loss, etc.

The Post Office Department of either of the contracting countries

will not be responsible for the loss or damage of any parcel, and no

indemnity can consequently be claimed by the sender or addressee in

either country.

ARTICLE XIII.

Furtherregulations. The Postmaster-General of the United States of America and the

Postmaster of Bermuda shall have authority to jointly make such

further regulations of order and detail as may be found necessary to carry out the present Agreement from time to time ; and may, by

Ante, p. 2983.

agreement, prescribe conditions for the admission to the mails of any of the articles prohibited by Article II of this Convention.

Duration , etc. Signatures.

ARTICLE XIV .

This Agreement shall take effect and operations thereunder shall begin on the first day of February , 1907, and shall continue in force until terminated by mutual agreement, but may be annulled at the desire of either Department, upon six months' previous notice given to the other.

In witness whereof the respective duly authorized Representatives have signed this Agreement, and have hereunto affixed their seals.

Done in duplicate at the city of Washington, United States of

America, this 13th day of December, 1906, and at Bermuda this 15th

day of January, 1907. [SEAL. ]

GEO. B. CORTELYOU ,

[SEAL. ]

Postmaster- General of the United States of America. ALLAN F. SMITH , Postmaster of Bermuda.

The foregoing Parcels-Post Convention between the United States of America and the British Colony of Bermuda has been negotiated
and concluded with my advice and consent, and is hereby approved and ratified.

In testimony whereof, I have caused the Seal of the United States to

be hereunto affixed .

[ SEAL. ]

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

By the President:

ELIHU ROOT,

Secretary of State.

WASHINGTON, December 18th, 1906.

DECEMBER 13, 1906. PARCELS- POST CONVENTION- BERMUDA. JANUARY 15, 1907.
FORM 1 . Parcels-Post.

2987 Form 1.

A parcel addressed as under has been posted here this day.

Office stamp.

This certificate is given to inform the sender of the posting ofa parcel, and does not indicate that any liability in respect of such parcel attaches to the Postmaster.

Date Stamp.

FORM 2 A.
Parcels-Post between the United States and Bermuda.

Form 2.

FORM OF CUSTOMS DECLARATION.

Place to which
the parcel is addressed.

Description of parcel: [State whether box,
basket, bag, etc. ]

Contents.

Total Value. Per cent. customs
charges.

Total.

S

Date of posting:..

19..; signature and address of sender

For use of Post Office only, and to be filled up at the office of exchange:

Parcel Bill No..

No. of rates prepaid..

.; Entry No.

B. Parcels Post from....
The import duty assessed by an officer of customs on contents of this parcel amounts to $......, which must be paid before the parcel is delivered.

Date Stamp.

Customs Officer.

2988 Form 3.

DECEMBER 13, 1906. PARCELS -POST CONVENTION- BERMUDA. JANUARY 15, 1907.

C.
Parcels-Post from This parcel has been passed by an officer of customs, and must be delivered
FREE OF CHARGE.

Date Stamp.

Date stamp of the dispatching
exchange Post Office.

FORM 3. Parcels from.........for

Parcel Bill No...... dated 18....: per S.S.".

Postmaster.
Date stamp of the receiving exchange
Post Office.

*Sheet No ....

Origin of Name of Address of parcel. Declared Declared

parcel. sender.

contents. value.

Remarks.

ENon.try 
roNafutemsber .tp.or.e.p.aid

Total ... $

When more than one sheet is required for the entry of the parcels sent by the mail , it will be sufficient if the undermentioned particulars are entered on the last sheet of the Parcel Bill.

* Total number of parcels sent by the mail to .....

* Number of boxes or other receptacles forming the mail

Signature of dispatching officer at

Post- Office:.

lbs. Total weight of mail..

* Deduct weight of receptacles ..

* Net weight of parcels......

Signature of receiving officer at

Post Office:

PROCLAMATIONS BY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES .
(2989)

LIST OF PROCLAMATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT.

Setting apart the Pinal Mountains Forest Reserve, Arizona. March 20, 1905 . Setting apart the Plumas Forest Reserve, California. March 27, 1905 .. Modifying boundaries of the Madison Forest Reserve, Montana. March 28, 1905. Jamestown, Va. , Ter-Centennial Celebration . March 29, 1905 .

Setting apart the Trinity Forest Reserve, California. April 29, 1905 . Setting apart the Klamath Forest Reserve, California. May 6, 1905 . Granting land to Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. May 6, 1905 .. Setting apart the Wallowa Forest Reserve, Oregon. May 6, 1905 . Enlarging boundaries of the Grand Cañon Forest Reserve, Arizona. May 6, 1905 Setting apart the Wenaha Forest Reserve, Oregon and Washington. May 12, 1905 Setting apart the Leadville Forest Reserve, Colorado. May 12, 1905 .. Setting apart the Sevier Forest Reserve, Utah. May 12, 1905 . Setting apart the Chesnimnus Forest Reserve, Oregon. May 12, 1905 . Setting apart the Elkhorn Forest Reserve, Montana. May 12, 1905 .. Setting apart the Gunnison Forest Reserve, Colorado. May 12, 1905 Establishing the Pikes Peak Forest Reserve, Colorado, in place of the Pikes Peak,
and South Platte reserves. May 12 , 1905 ..

Plum

Creek ,

Restoring Mission Indian lands, California, to the public domain. May 15, 1905

Suspending discriminating tonnage, etc. , duties, Panama. May 15, 1905 ..
Enlarging boundaries of the Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, Colorado and Wyoming. May 17, 1905 .

Modifying boundaries of the Bitter Root Forest Reserve, Idaho and Montana. May 22, 1905 .

Enlarging boundaries of the Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho. May 22, 1905

Setting apart the Henrys Lake Forest Reserve, Idaho. May 23, 1905 .

Setting apart the Weiser Forest Reserve, Idaho. May 25, 1905 . Setting apart the Sawtooth Forest Reserve, Idaho. May 29, 1905 Establishing a game preserve in the Wichita Forest Reserve, Oklahoma. June 2, 1905 . Setting apart the Lassen Peak Forest Reserve, California. June 2, 1905 ..

Setting apart the Maury Mountain Forest Reserve, Oregon. June 2, 1905 . Setting apart the Payette Forest Reserve, Idaho. June 3, 1905 .. Setting apart the San Juan Forest Reserve, Colorado. June 3, 1905 .. Modifying boundaries of the Battlement Mesa Forest Reserve, Colorado. June 5 , 1905 .

Setting apart Park Range Forest Reserve, Colorado. June 12, 1905 ...

Enlarging boundaries of the San Isabel Forest Reserve, Colorado. June 12, 1905 . Modifying boundaries of Washington Forest Reserve, Washington. June 12, 1905 . Setting apart the Wet Mountains Forest Reserve, Colorado. June 12, 1905 .. Setting apart the Cassia Forest Reserve, Idaho. June 12, 1905

Setting apart the Cochetopah Forest Reserve, Colorado. June 13, 1905 Setting apart the Montezuma Forest Reserve, Colorado. June 13, 1905 Setting apart the Uncompahgre Forest Reserve, Colorado. June 14, 1905 . Norway, reciprocal copyrights. July 1 , 1906 . Announcing death of John Hay, Secretary of State. July 3, 1905 Setting apart the Diamond Mountain Forest Reserve, California. July 14, 1905 Enlarging boundaries of Uintah Forest Reserve, Utah. July 14, 1905 ... Opening to entry lands on Uintah Indian Reservation, Utah. July 14, 1905 .

Enlarging boundaries of Gila Forest Reserve, New Mexico. July 21 , 1905 Setting apart the Gila River Forest Reserve, New Mexico. March 2, 1899

Enlarging boundaries of Payson Forest Reserve, Utah. July 21 , 1905 Setting apart the Short Pine Forest Reserve, South Dakota. July 22, 1905 .

Setting apart the Garden City Forest Reserve, Kansas. July 25, 1905.
Enlarging boundaries of the Sierra Forest Reserve, California. July 25, 1905 Reserving lands for town-site entries on the Uintah Indian Reservation . July 31 , 1905 Modifying provisions for opening lands to entry on the Uintah Indian Reservation, Utah.
August 2, 1905 . Reserving lands for reservoir site, etc. , on Uintah Indian Reservation , Utah. August 3, 1905 .

Reserving land for town-site entries on Uintah Indian Reservation, Utah . August 14, 1905 .. Reducing area of lands reserved for reservoir sites on Uintah Indian Reservation , Utah.

August 14, 1905

Setting apart the Holy Cross Forest Reserve, Colorado. August 25, 1905 . Setting apart the Dixie Forest Reserve, Utah. September 25, 1905 . Enlarging boundaries of the Madison Forest Reserve, Montana. October 3, Setting apart the Big Belt Forest Reserve, Montana. October 3 , 1905 .. Setting apart the Shasta Forest Reserve, California. October 3, 1905 Enlarging boundaries of the Tahoe Forest Reserve, California and Nevada. Setting apart the Tonto Forest Reserve, Arizona. October 3, 1905 .. Setting apart the Hell Gate Forest Reserve, Montana. October 3, 1905

1905 . October 3,

1905 . I

Page. 2991 2992 2995 2997 2998 3001 3004 3004 3009 3010 3013 3020 3022 3024 3025
3029 3037 3038
3039 3044
3049 3052 3055 3058 3062 3063 3066 3067 3070 3076 3079 3083 3088 3096 3099 3101 . 3106 3109 3111 3112 3113 3116 3119 3123 3126 3127 3129 3131 3133 3139
3140 3141 3143
3143 3144 3147 3148 3151 3157 3163 3166 3168

II

LIST OF PROCLAMATIONS .

Enlarging boundaries of the Lincoln Forest Reserve, New Mexico. October 3, 1905 Setting apart the Portales Forest Reserve, New Mexico. October 3, 1905. Enlarging boundaries of the Little Belt Forest Reserve, Montana. October 3, 1905 . Setting apart the Jemez Forest Reserve, New Mexico. October 12, 1905 . Prohibiting export of war material to Santo Domingo. October 14, 1905 . Designating Thursday, November 30, 1905, as a day of general thanksgiving. November 2, 1905 . Setting apart the Yuba Forest Reserve, California. November 11 , 1905 .. Reciprocity with Switzerland. January 1, 1906 .. Enlarging boundaries of the Uintah Forest Reserve, Utah and Wyoming. January 16, 1906 .. Enlarging boundaries of the Sevier Forest Reserve, Utah. January 17 , 1906 .... Enlarging boundaries of the Manti Forest Reserve, Utah. January 18, 1906 . Enlarging boundaries of the Fish Lake Forest Reserve, Utah. January 22, 1906 . Setting apart the Beaver Forest Reserve, Utah. January 24, 1906 ... Setting apart the La Sal Forest Reserve, Utah and Colorado. January 25, 1906 . Setting apart the Fruita Forest Reserve, Colorado. February 24, 1906 . Reciprocity with Germany. February 27, 1906 .. Enlarging boundaries of the Gallatin Forest Reserve, Montana. March 7 , 1906 Setting apart the North Platte Forest Reserve, Nebraska. March 10, 1906 . Setting apart the Blue Mountains Forest Reserve, Oregon. March 15, 1906 . Setting apart the Helena Forest Reserve, Montana. April 12, 1906 .. Enlarging boundaries of the Ashland Forest Reserve, Oregon. April 24, 1906 . Setting apart the Vernon Forest Reserve, Utah. April 24, 1906 .. Setting apart the Ruby Mountains Forest Reserve, Nevada. May 3, 1906 . Enlarging boundaries of the Weiser Forest Reserve, Idaho. May 10, 1906 . Setting apart the Fillmore Forest Reserve, Utah. May 19, 1906 .. Opening to entry lands on the Crow Indian Reservation, Montana. May 24, 1906 . Inviting the militia to attend the Jamestown, Va. , Ter-Centennial Celebration . May 28, 1906 ... Setting apart the Bear River Forest Reserve, Idaho and Utah. May 28, 1906 Enlarging boundaries of the Wichita Forest Reserve, Oklahoma. May 29, 1906 . Modifying boundaries of the Uintah Forest Reserve, Utah. May 29, -1906.. Opening to entry lands in the Shoshone or Wind River Reservation, Wyoming. June 2, 1906 .. Enlarging boundaries of the Hell Gate Forest Reserve, Montana. June 2, 1906 Opening for location mineral lands in the Uncompahgre Indian Reservation, Utah. June 6,
1906 .
Excluding lands reserved for town sites in the Hailey land district, Idaho. June 15, 1906 Enlarging boundaries of the Lincoln Forest Reserve, New Mexico. June 25, 1906 .. Setting apart the San Luis Obispo Forest Reserve, California. June 25, 1906 .. Setting apart the Monterey Forest Reserve, California. June 25 , 1906 .. Enlarging boundaries of the Black Mesa Forest Reserve, Arizona. June 30, 1906 . Setting apart the Pinnacles Forest Reserve, California. July 18 , 1906 .. Setting apart the Heppner Forest Reserve, Oregon . July 18, 1906 .. Directing entries on Shoshone Reservation , Wyo. , to be made at Shoshoni, Wyo . July 20 , 1906. Modifying boundaries of Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, Arizona. August 8, 1906 ... Setting apart the Crazy Mountains Forest Reserve, Montana. August 8, 1906 . Setting apart the Kootenai Forest Reserve, Montana. August 13 , 1906 ... Setting apart the Wasatch Forest Reserve, Utah. August 16, 1906 .. Setting apart the Goose Lake Forest Reserve, Oregon . August 21 , 1906 . Asking aid to Valparaiso earthquake sufferers. August 25 , 1906 . Reciprocity with Spain. August 27 , 1906 .. Restoring parcel of land in Uintah Indian Reservation , Utah, to public domain . September 1 ,
1906 .
Enlarging boundaries of the Stanislaus Forest Reserve, California. September 7. 1906 . Enlarging boundaries of the Hell Gate Forest Reserve, Montana. September 14 , 1906 . Reciprocity with Bulgaria. September 15, 1906 ... Setting apart the Fremont Forest Reserve, Oregon. September 17 , 1906 ... Consolidating the Yuba Forest Reserve with the Tahoe Forest Reserve, California and Nevada.
September 17, 1906 .......... Opening to settlement common lands of Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache Indians in Oklahoma.
September 19, 1906 .... Setting apart the Lolo Forest Reserve, Montana. September 20, 1906 . Enlarging boundaries of the Shasta Forest Reserve, California. September 24 , 1906 . Setting apart the Long Pine Forest Reserve, Montana . September 24 , 1906 .. Setting aside Devils Tower National Monument, Wyoming . September 24 , 1906 . Opening to entry lands on Walker River Indian Reservation , Nev. September 26 , 1906 . Enlarging boundaries of the Santa Barbara Forest Reserve, California . October 3, 1906 .. Setting apart the Siskiyou Forest Reserve , Oregon . October 5, 1906 ..
Setting apart the Mount Taylor Forest Reserve, New Mexico . October 5 , 1906 . Enlarging boundaries of the Uinta Forest Reserve, Utah and Wyoming. October 6, 1906. Enlarging boundaries of the Diamond Mountain Forest Reserve, California. October 15 , 1906 .. Designating Thursday, November 29 , 1906, as a day of general thanksgiving . October 22, 1906 .. Setting apart the Sierra Madre Forest Reserve, Wyoming. November 5, 1906 .. Setting apart the Gallinas Forest Reserve, New Mexico . November 5, 1906 .. Enlarging boundaries of the Chiricahua Forest Reserve, Arizona. November 5, 1906 . Setting apart the Magdalena Forest Reserve, New Mexico. November 5 , 1906 .

Page. 3175 3178 3180 3182 3183 3184 -3184 3185 3186 3187 3188 3189 3189 3190 3191 3192 3193 3193 3194 3196 3196 3197 3198 3199 3200 3200 3205 3206 3207 3207 3208 3213
3214 3215 3216 3217 3218 3218 3221 3222
-3222 3223 3224 3225 3225 3226 3227 3227
3228 3229 3230 3231 3231
3232
3233 3234 3235 3235 . 3236 3237 3238 3239 3239 3240 3241 3242 3242 3243 3244 3245

LIST OF PROCLAMATIONS.

III

Setting apart the Ekalaka Forest Reserve, Montana. November 5, 1906 ... Setting apart the Snowy Mountains Forest Reserve , Montana. November 5 , 1906 . Setting apart the Raft River Forest Reserve, Idaho and Utah . November 5, 1906 . Setting apart the Lemhi Forest Reserve, Idaho. November 5 , 1906 ....... Setting apart the Peloncillo Forest Reserve, New Mexico. November 5 , 1906 . Setting apart the San Mateo Forest Reserve, New Mexico. November 5 , 1906 . Setting apart the Salmon River Forest Reserve, Idaho . November 5. 1906 . Setting apart the Baboquivari Forest Reserve, Arizona. November 5, 1906 . Setting apart the Independence Forest Reserve, Nevada. November 5 , 1906 . Setting apart the Charleston Forest Reserve, Nevada. November 5, 1906 ... Enlarging boundaries of the Kootenai Forest Reserve, Montana and Idaho . November 5, 1906 .. Setting apart the Big Hole Forest Reserve, Montana. November 5 , 1906 ... Modifying boundaries of the Little Belt Forest Reserve, Montana. November 6 , 1906 . Setting apart the Huachuca Forest Reserve, Arizona. November 6 , 1906 .. Setting apart the Coeur d'Alène Forest Reserve, Idaho. November 6 , 1906 . Enlarging boundaries of the Priest River Forest Reserve, Idaho and Washington. November 6 ,
1906 ...
Setting apart the Manzano Forest Reserve, New Mexico . November 6 , 1906 . Setting apart the Pryor Mountains Forest Reserve , Montana. November 6 , 1906 . Setting apart the Missoula Forest Reserve, Montana. November 6, 1906 ... Enlarging boundaries of the Lolo Forest Reserve , Montana . November 6 , 1906 . Enlarging boundaries of the Sawtooth Forest Reserve, Idaho . November 6, 1906 . Enlarging boundaries of the Jemez Forest Reserve, New Mexico. November 7 , 1906 . Setting apart the Taos Forest Reserve, New Mexico. November 7 , 1906 .. Setting apart the Tumacacori Forest Reserve, Arizona. November 7, 1906 .. Setting aside game preserve in Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, Arizona . November 28 , 1906 . Setting aside El Morro National Monument, New Mexico . December 8, 1906 . Setting aside Montezuma Castle National Monument, Arizona. December 8 , 1906 . Setting aside Petrified Forest National Monument, Arizona. December 8, 1906 . Setting apart the Caribou Forest Reserve, Idaho and Wyoming. January 15 , 1907. Reciprocity with Portugal . January 24, 1907 .. Enlarging boundaries of the Cascade Range Forest Reserve, Oregon . January 25 , 1907 . Setting apart the Ouray Forest Reserve, Colorado. February 2, 1907 . Setting apart the Monticello Forest Reserve, Utah. February 6 , 1907 . Setting apart the Stony Creek Forest Reserve, California. February 6, 1907 . Setting apart the Big Burros Forest Reserve, New Mexico . February 6 , 1907 . Setting apart the Glenwood Forest Reserve, Utah. February 6, 1907 .. Enlarging boundaries of the San Jacinto Forest Reserve, California . February 14 , 1907 . Excluding lands from the Little Belt Forest Reserve, Montana . February 15, 1907 . Setting apart the Toiyabe Forest Reserve, Nevada. March 1 , 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Wenaha Forest Reserve, Oregon and Washington . March 1 , 1907 Enlarging boundaries of the Siskiyou Forest Reserve, Oregon . March 1 , 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Big Hole Forest Reserve , Montana and Idaho . March 1 , 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Uncompahgre Forest Reserve, Colorado . March 1 , 1907 . Modifying boundaries of the Big Belt Forest Reserve , Montana . March 1 , 1907 . Establishing Imnaha Forest Reserve, Oregon , in place of the Wallowa and Chesnimnus Forest
reserves. March 1, 1907 ..
Modifying boundaries of the Park Range Forest Reserve, Colorado, March 1 , 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Holy Cross Forest Reserve , Colorado . March 1 , 1907 . Establishing the Bear Lodge Forest Reserve, Wyoming. March 1 , 1907 . Establishing the Colville Forest Reserve, Washington. March 1 , 1907 . Establishing the Las Animas Forest Reserve, Colorado and New Mexico. March 1 , 1907 . Establishing the Little Rockies Forest Reserve, Montana . March 2, 1907 ... Modifying boundaries of the Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyoming , Montana, and Idaho. March
2, 1907
Setting apart the Port Neuf Forest Reserve, Idaho. March 2 , 1907 . Setting apart the Palouse Forest Reserve, Idaho. March 2 , 1907 . Modifying boundaries of the Weiser Forest Reserve, Idaho , March 2 , 1907 . Setting apart the Cabinet Forest Reserve, Montana and Idaho. March 2 , 1907. Enlarging boundaries of the Rainier Forest Reserve, Washington . March 2 , 1907 . Modifying boundaries of the Washington Forest Reserve, Washington . March 2, 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Ashland Forest Reserve, Oregon . March 2 , 1907 . Setting apart the Coquille Forest Reserve, Oregon. March 2 , 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Cascade Forest Reserve, Oregon . March 2 , 1907 . Setting apart the Umpqua Forest Reserve, Oregon . March 2 , 1907 Enlarging boundaries of the Blue Mountains Forest Reserve , Oregon , and incorporating therewith
the Maury Mountain Forest Reserve. March, 2 , 1907 .. Enlarging boundaries of the Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, Colorado and Wyoming. March 2, 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Lewis and Clark Forest Reserve, Montana. March 2 , 1907 . Setting apart the Otter Forest Reserve, Montana. March 2 , 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Olympic Forest Reserve, Washington. March 2 , 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Montezuma Forest Reserve , Colorado. March 2, 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the San Juan Forest Reserve, Colorado. March 2, 1907 . Enlarging boundaries of the Priest River Forest Reserve, Idaho and Washington. March 2 , 1907 .. Setting apart the Tillamook Forest Reserve, Oregon . March 2, 1907 ....

Page. 3245 3246 3247 3248 3248 3249 3250 3251 3251 3252 3253 3254 3254 3255 3256
3257 3257 3258 3259 3260 3260 3261 3262 3263 3263 3264 3265 3266 3267 3268 3270 3271 3272 3273 3274 3275 3276 . 3277 3278 3279 3280 3281 3282 3283
3284 3285 3286 3287 3288 3289 3290
3291 3292 3293 3294 3295 3296 3297 3298 3299 3300 3301
3302 3303 3304 3305 3306 3307 3308 3309 3310

PROCLAMATIONS .

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

March 20, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Pinal Moun WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of tains Forest Ro
Congress, approved March 'third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one, sePrrvee,aAmrbilze.. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur- Vol. 26, p. 1103.
99 poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to
time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of Arizona, within the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt ,

President

of the

United

Forest reserve, Arizona .

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the Territory of Arizona , and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the point for the north-west corner of Section eleven (11) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East, Gila and Salt River Meridian , Arizona ; thence easterly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the north- east corner of Section eight (8) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence

Description ..

southerly to the point for the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the point for the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point of intersection with the western boundary of the White Mountain Indian Reservation ; thence in a southwesterly direction along said boundary to the point for its intersection with the unsurveyed section line between Sections seventeen (17) and twenty (20) , Township two (2 ) South, Range sixteen ( 16) East ; thence westerly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the south- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Township two (2) South, Range fourteen (14) East ; thence northerly along the unsurveyed section lines to the point for the north-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township one (1 ) South, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East, the place of, beginning.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal
2991

Lands excepted.

2992

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of

land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply

Reserved from with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make ser-

1

Name.

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Pinal

Mountains Forest Reserve.

1

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington, this 20th day of March in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,

1

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one

4

hundred and twenty-ninth .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

H

March 27 , 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Plumas For-

est Reserve, Cal.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Preamble.

gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, en-

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

titled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ",

" That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered

with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of California, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

Forest reserve, reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

California.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of California , and within the

Description.

boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) ,

Township twenty-eight ( 28 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East, Mount

Diablo Base and Meridian, California ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Section five (5) , Township twenty-seven ( 27 ) North, Range six (6)

East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section

eighteen (18) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west cor-

ner of Section thirty-two (32) , said township ; thence easterly to the

north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

2993

corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , Township twenty-six ( 26 ) North , Plumas Forest Reserve - Contin
Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Sec- ued. tion twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section_nineteen ( 19 ) , Township twenty-six (26 ) North, Range
seven (7) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section ten (10 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of the north-west quarter of Section thirteen ( 13) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , Township twenty-seven ( 27 ) North, Range seven ( 7 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29) , Township twenty- seven (27 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty- six (36) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township twenty-six ( 26 ) North , Range nine (9) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section thirtysix ( 36 ) , said township ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Fifth (5th ) Standard Parallel North, to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township twenty- four (24 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township twentyfour (24 ) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section five (5 ) , Township twentythree (23 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , Township twenty-three (23) North, Range eleven (11 ) East ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township twenty-two ( 22 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township twenty-two ( 22 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the

2994

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

RePsleurmvaes-FCoonrteisnt- south- east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence

ed .

easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-

four (34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of

Township twenty-two ( 22 ) North , Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said town-

ship ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty- two

(22) , Township twenty -two ( 22 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence

northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north -east corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , Township twenty-

two ( 22 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) . East ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , Township twenty-two ( 22 ) North,

Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of

Section fifteen (15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township twenty-two (22) North , Range

seven (7) East ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section

four (4 ) , Township twenty-one (21 ) North , Range seven (7 ) East ;

thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence west-

erly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , Township

twenty-one (21 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence northerly to the

south- east corner of Section four ( 4) , said township ; thence westerly

to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of Township twenty-two ( 22 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ;

thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) ,

Township twenty-three ( 23 ) North, Range six (6 ) East ; thence

easterly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Sec-

tion four (4) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west cor-

ner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , Township twenty-four ( 24 ) North,

Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of frac-

tional Section twenty - four ( 24 ) , Township twenty- four ( 24) North,

Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Sec-

tion two (2 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -west corner

of Section three (3 ) , said township; thence northerly to the south-

east corner of Section four (4) , Township twenty-five (25 ) North,

Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said

section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly along the Fifth (5th ) Standard. Parallel North to the

south-west corner of Township twenty-six (26 ) North, Range five (5 )

East; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section thirteen

(13) , Township twenty-six (26 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of the south-east quarter of Section ten ( 10 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Sec-

tion four (4 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north - west cor-

ner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Sec-

tion thirty-two ( 32 ) , Township twenty-seven ( 27 ) North, Range four

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

2995

(4) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section

seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section two ( 2) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of

Township twenty-eight (28 ) North, Range five (5 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirtyone (31 ) , Township twenty-eight ( 28 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which

may occur in actually extending the surveys ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

Lands excepted.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which
to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided , that this
exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement. ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Plumas Name. Forest Reserve.

from

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 27th day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty- ninth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

March 28, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

The

Madison

Forest

Reserve,

in

the

State

of

Mon-

The Madison Forest Reserve, Mont.

tana, was established by proclamation dated August sixteenth, nine- Preamble.

Vol . 32, p. 2024.

teen hundred and two , under and by virtue of section twenty- four of Vol. 26, p . 1103.

the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and Post, p. 3148.

ninety-one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for

other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the United

States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or

Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part ofthe public

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--11

2996

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905 :

Vol. 30, p. 36.

lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;
And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " the President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ";

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by releasing and excluding certain lands from the said forest reserve ;

Boundaries modified:

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United

States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven,

do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the aforesaid Madison Forest Reserve are hereby modified so as to read as

follows :

Description.

Beginning at the point where the western boundary of the Yellowstone National Park intersects the boundary line between the States

of Montana and Idaho ; thence in a general north-westerly and southwesterly direction along said state boundary line to its intersection with the range line between Ranges one ( 1 ) and two ( 2 ) East ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Township twelve ( 12) South, Range one (1 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- east corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South , Range six (6) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township twelve ( 12) South, Range five (5 ) West ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Second ( 2nd ) Standard Parallel South, to the north- west corner of Township ten ( 10) South , Range four (4 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- three (33 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range four ( 4 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township seven (7 ) South, Range three (3 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Township eight ( 8) South, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence southerly to the south - west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said township ; thence southerly along the Principal Meridian to its intersection with the Second (2nd ) Standard Parallel South ; thence

easterly along said parallel to its intersection with the western boundary of the Yellowstone National Park ; thence southerly along the western boundary of said park to its intersection with the boundary line between the States of Montana and Idaho, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

2997

indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in
actually extending the surveys. Restored lands
The lands hereby excluded from the reserve and restored to the open to settlement.
public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but
shall not be subject to entry, filing or selection until after ninety days
notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 28th day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand , nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

March 29, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas the Congress of the United States has passed an Act ap- ceJleabmreasttioonw. n, Va..

proved March 3, 1905, and entitled, " An Act To provide for celebrat- Preamble. Vol. 33, p. 1046.
ing the birth of the American nation , the first permanent settlement

of English-speaking people on the Western Hemisphere, by the hold-

ing of an international naval, marine, and military celebration in the

vicinity of Jamestown, on the waters of Hampton Roads, in the State

of Virginia; to provide for a suitable and permanent commemoration

of said event, and to authorize an appropriation in aid thereof, and for other purposes.";

And Whereas Section 3 of the said Act reads as follows :

Vol. 33, p. 1047.

" SEC. 3. The President of the United States is hereby authorized to make proc-

lamation of said celebration , setting forth the event to be commemorated, inviting

foreign nations to participate by the sending of their naval vessels and such rep-

resentation of their military organizations as may be practicable,

":

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United brIanttieornnatoifonaslectetllee. States, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the said Act, do ment at James-

hereby declare and proclaim that there shall be inaugurated , in the town, Va. , 1607. year nineteen hundred and seven, on and near the waters of Hampton Roads, in the State of Virginia, an international naval , marine and

military celebration, beginning May 13, and ending not later than

November 1 , 1907 , for the purpose of commemorating, in a fitting and

appropriate manner, the birth of the American nation , the first permanent settlement of English-speaking people on the American Con-

tinent, made at Jamestown, Virginia, on the thirteenth day of May, sixteen hundred and seven, and in order that the great events of

American history which have resulted therefrom, may be accentuated to the present and future generations of American citizens. And in the name of the Government and of the people of the United States, I do hereby invite all the nations of the earth to take part in

Invitation to for-

the commemoration of an event which has had a far reaching effect upon the course of human history, by sending their naval vessels to the said celebration and by making such representations of their mili-

tary organizations as may be practicable.

2998

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington, this 29th day of March, [ SEAL. ] one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the Independ-
ence of the United States, the one hundred and twentyninth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT By the President :
ALVEY A. ADEE
Acting Secretary of State. "

April 29, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Trinity Forest Reserve, Cal.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of

Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, en-

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

99

titled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,

" That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

public reservations, and the President shall , by public proclamation,

declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of California, within the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, California .

Now, therefore , I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of California , and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :

Description .

Beginning at the north-west corner of Section seven ( 7) , Township nine ( 9 ) , North , Range seven (7 ) East , Humboldt Base and Merid-

ian, California ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section

ten ( 10) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

said . section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

eighteen ( 18 ) , fractional Township nine ( 9 ) , North, Range eight ( 8 )

East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

casterly to the north- east corner of Section Twenty ( 20 ) , said town-

ship ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township thirty-eight (38 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) West,

Mount Diablo Base-and Meridian ; thence easterly to the north-east.

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east

corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Section four (4) , Township thirty-seven ( 37 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north - east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence

aid
Zast efS
Stand -one (
en to enc east ansh
'mity. torthe
p:1
nsh -North, $130) Test
to 1 th-e Test bansh 4.T Teste the beno vto

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

2999

easterly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16) , Township Trinity Forest Reserve - Contin-
thirty-seven (37) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence southerly ued. to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section twenty-four (24 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township thirty- six (36 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence westerly to the northeast corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence westerly along the Seventh (7th) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of Section five (5) , Township thirty-five (35 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , Township thirty- four (34 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) . West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Township thirty-three (33 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three (3) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , Township thirty-two ( 32) North, Range eleven (11 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , Township thirty-two (32 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section six (6 ) , Township thirty-one (31 ) North, Range twelve (12 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section seventeen (17) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twentyeight ( 28) , said township ; thence easterly to the north - east corner of Section twenty- seven (27) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly along the Sixth (6th) Standard Parallel North , to the south-west corner of Township thirty-one (31 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township thirty-one (31 ) North, Range ten ( 10) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four ( 4 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the Sixth (6th) Standard Parallel North, to the north-east corner of Section two ( 2) , Township thirty (30 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section four (4 ) , Township twenty-nine ( 29 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twentyfive ( 25) , said township; thence southerly to the north-west corner

2998

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[ SEAL . ]

Done at the City of Washington, this 29th day of March, one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the Independence of the United States, the one hundred and twentyninth .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

April 29, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Trinity Forest Reserve, Cal.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the A

Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

titled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other p

" That the President of the United States may, from time t

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having publi

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

public reservations, and the President shall, by pub declare the establishment of such reservations and ti

And whereas, the public lands in the State of C limits hereinafter described , are in part covered

appears that the public good would be promote
reserving said lands as a public reservation : Forest reserve, Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt. I' California.
States, by virtue of the power in me vested i
the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby r

that there are hereby reserved from entry as a Public Reservation all those certain

land lying and being situate in the State

boundaries particularly described as foll

Description.

Beginning at the north-west corner of nine (9 ) , North, Range seven (7) Eas

ian, California ; thence easterly to the ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence sout! said . section ; thence easterly to the eighteen ( 18 ) , fractional Township East ; thence southerly to the sour casterly to the north-east ship ; thence southerly easterly to the nort

township ; thence s

(30) , Township th Mount Diablo B:

corner of said said section :

thirty-two

corner

3001

easterly to the thirty- seven to the south-east east corner of Sect
erly to the southe (36) North. ance east corner of Seatin the south-east commer

rest corr of said on eleven corner of of Section ction lines, ard Parallel

thence westerly tou the north-east mon

) , Township to the south-

North, Range corner of Sections

th , Range five 1891 18910!!! ) the intersection

Range eleven of Section erlite north-west cornerat
(11 ) West: pre (3), said tow tion twenty-two

an Reservation ; boundary of said ne between Town(5 ) East ; thence est corner of Town-
ence northerly to the

motioned

(11) West: themes

ownship, the place of s have not been estab-

teen (19), said am Section twenteme

be located at the points

twelve (12) We thirty-four ( 4) corner of said Section six (6) West; thence sum

the surveys in the direcirregularities which may
godinoh gewolle (Sail this proclamation all lands hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

(17) , said towe section ; thence
eight (28) , i of Section wante south-east co

duly of record in the proper which any valid settlement has tatutory period within which to not expired; Provided, that this ply to any particular tract of land

corner of Section the south-east c
(6th) Standard Frees thirty-one (31 the north-west

mant continues to comply with the

Leor settlement was made.daicod

given to all persons not to make set- Reserved from

settlement.

by this proclamation.

(af) nad

blished shall be known as The Trinity Name.

easterly to the ship; thence thence easter said township:
ship thirty-one the north-eas
southerly to the
township: the thence southerly said township

oT to Tomog OF, I have hereunto set my hand and ed States to be affixed.
Washington this 26th day of April in the Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,
Independence of the United States the one nd twenty-ninth.ondoltoo
THEODORE ROOSEVELT hands gidenwos bike ( addie goedh paoitose bise to 190100 Jasw A. ADEE won bingh 788) sout- aid no
to

Reed Etom Na

allel North.

Acting Secretary of State. to 1910 Jan-

thirty ( north easter

vedious oxirgi enWhe(0 ) oktogne addicA asduulenwohin (8) dgie nodose to 190700
wonbing ( nevesta tu fotoo, Jaswedtoar

AusCreme auspt to mois 20 19

19- ton sdt orlof

T OF 10 THT OF 10 SIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. vinidad

1 )   t  leow-mu art of

May 6, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION of admonsonadt AL OF JO LML OF JO a good 10 1910 29 - digo: odt of listasw

provided by section twenty- four ooff tthhee AAcctt ooff CCoonn-- FoTrheesKtlaRemsaertvhe, NT OF 10 THT OF T March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, enti- Cal.
Preamble.
troboyoo repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ", Vol. 26, p. 1103.
1L OF JO LML OF'esident of the United States may, from time to time,

I

reserve, in any State or Territory having public land

IT OF 10 THT

AL OE JO LM

3000

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

ReTsreirnivtey-FCoornteisnt- of Township twenty-eight ( 28) North, Range nine ( 9) West ; thence

ued.

easterly to the north- east corner of said township ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of Township twenty-six ( 26 ) North, Range

nine ( 9 ) West ; thence westerly along the Fifth ( 5th) Standard Parallel North, to the south-west corner of Township twenty-six (26 )

North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence northerly to the south- east

corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , Township twenty-six ( 26 ) North,

Range twelve ( 12) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-

three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section

East

fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west cor-

the

ner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Sec-

tion eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west

at

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of

Section six ( 6) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east

corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , fractional Township two ( 2 ) South,

Range eight ( 8 ) East, Humboldt Base and Meridian ; thence west-

-Te

erly to the south- west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35) ,

Township one ( 1 ) South, Range seven ( 7) East ; thence northerly

to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27) , said township ; thence

IT OF

northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-

one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of

Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-

iption

west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

the

of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section

under

seven (7) , said township ; thence northerly along the range line,

allowing for the proper offset on the Humboldt Base Line, to the

south- east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25) , Township one ( 1 )

Theres

North, Range six (6 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

st Re

of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said



section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-

ed the

three (23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner

Je al

of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of said section ; thence northerly along the section lines,

SPAL

allowing for the proper offset on the township line, to the south-east

corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , Township two (2 ) North, Range

six ( 6 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

3 the

thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Township

three (3 ) North, Range six (6 ) East ; thence northerly to the south-

east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North,

Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said

section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section fourteen

Br

(14 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said

section ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section ten ( 10) ;

said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty- three

(33) , Township four (4 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence west-

appl

erly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence northerly to

the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township five (5)

the

art a

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905

3001

North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eleven

(11) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence northerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the First ( 1st) Standard Parallel North, to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township six (6) North, Range four (4) East ; thence easterly to the southwest corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , Township six ( 6 ) North, Range five (5 ) East ; thence northerly along the section lines to the intersection with the southern boundary of the Hoopa Valley Indian Reservation ; thence northeasterly and northwesterly along the boundary of said reservation to the intersection with the township line between Townships eight ( 8 ) and nine (9 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence

easterly along said township line to the south-west corner of Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range seven ( 7 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said township, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; Provided, that this

Lands excepted.

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is hereby

expressly

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make set-

Reserved settlement.

from

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation . The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Trinity Name.

Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 26th day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,
· [ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty- ninth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 6, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Con-
gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, enti-
tled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", 66
That the President of the United States may, from time to time,
set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land

The Klamath Forest Reserve, CaPlr. eamble.
Vol. 26, p. 1103.

3002

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.
bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits

theArneodf "wh; ereas, the public lands in the State of California, within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber,
and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting

apNarotwa,ntdherreesfeorrvein, gIs, aTidheloadnodrseasRaoopsuebvleilct,rePsreersviadteinotn

; of

the

United

Forest California .

reserve,

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of California, and within

Description.

theBebgoiunnndairnigesatptarhteicnuolratrhl-ywedsetsccriobrenderasoffoflrlaocwtsio: nal Township nineteen ( 19 ) North, Range three (3 ) East , Humboldt Base and Meridian, California ; thence easterly along the State Line between the States of California and Oregon to the north-east corner of fractional Township forty-eight (48 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) West, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Ninth ( 9th) Standard Par-
allel North, to the south-east corner of Section twenty-four (24 ) , Township forty-five (45 ) North , Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of fractional Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township forty-five (45 ) North , Range nine ( 9 ) West ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Township forty- four ( 44) North, Range ten (10) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range ten ( 10) West : thence easterly along the Eighth ( 8th) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner
of fractional Section five ( 5 ) , Township forty ( 40 ) North, Range ten ( 10) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Township thirty-nine (39 ) North , Range ten ( 10 ) -West ;
thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty -five (25 ) . Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) North, Range ten ( 10) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Township thirty-seven (37 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of Section thirty -three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the
north- east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , Township thirty-seven (37) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township : thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township
thirty-seven (37 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-
west corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township thirty-eight (38)

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3003

North, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence northerly to the south-east

corner of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of fractional Section twenty-one (21 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) North , Range eight ( 8 ) East, Humboldt Base and Meridian ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section seventeen ( 17), said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range seven ( 7 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section seven ( 7) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range six ( 6) East' ; thence westerly along the township line to its intersection with the eastern boundary of the Hoopa Valley Indian Reservation ; thence in a north-westerly and south-westerly direction along said boundary to its intersection with the range line between Ranges four ( 4 ) and five ( 5 ) East ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section

twenty-five ( 25 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) North, Range four ( 4 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty- seven (27) ,

said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section

three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly along the Second (2nd ) Standard Parallel North to the south-west corner of Township eleven

(11 ) North, Range four ( 4) East ; thence northerly to the north- east

corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township thirteen (13 ) North, Range three (3) East ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Third ( 3rd ) Standard Parallel North, to the north-west corner of fractional Township nineteen ( 19 )

North, Range three ( 3 ) East, the place of beginning ;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that

this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular'tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply

with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation . The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Klamath
Forest Reserve.

Reserved settlement..
Name.

from

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL . ]

the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth.
T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

3004 May 6, 1905.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.

Coeur d'Alene, WHEREAS , it is provided in the Act of Congress approved March

Idaho. Preamble.

3, 1893, entitled "An Act Making appropriations for sudry civil ex-

Vol. 27, p. 593. penses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,

eighteen hundred and ninety- four, and for other purposes ", " That

the President is hereby authorized by proclamation to withhold from

sale and grant for public use to the municipal corporation in which

the same is situated all or any portion of any abandoned military reservation not exceeding twenty acres in one place ",

And, Whereas, the Fort Sherman Military reservation at Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, created by Executive orders of August 25, 1879, and

April 22, 1880, and enlarged by Executive orders of May 26, 1891 , and February 2, 1892, and containing 902.21 acres, more or less, was by

Vol. 23, p. 103.

Executive order of October 5, 1900, placed under the custody of the Interior Department for disposal under the act of July 5, 1884, being "An Act To provide for the disposal of abandoned and useless military reservations

And, Whereas, the citizens of the town of Coeur d'Alene , Idaho,

have petitioned that a portion of the said reservation be granted to

the Municipal Authorities of the town of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, for

the use of a public cemetery,

Fort Sherman Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, by virtue of the power in Military reserva-

tion .

me vested by the Act of Congress aforesaid, do hereby withdraw from

CoPeaurtr gdra'nAtleedneto, sale, entry or other disposition , the land embraced in the legal subdi-
Idaho, for ceme vision , designated on the official plat of survey of the former Fort
tery. Sherman Military reservation as Lot 9 in section 14, township 50

north of range 4 west , Boise Meridian , containing 19.45 acres, and do hereby grant, for public use, the said described tract of land to the incorporated town of Coeur d'Alene, in the State of Idaho.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

DONE at the City of Washington, this 6th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

May 6, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

1 The Wallowa For- WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Conest Reserve, Oreg. gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one, entiPreamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103. tled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", Post, p. 3284. " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set
apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear
ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3005

with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Oregon, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Now, therefore ,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United Forest reserve, Oregon.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Oregon, and within the

boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north- west corner of Township one ( 1 ) South,
Range forty- one (41 ) East, Willamette Meridian, Oregon ; thence easterly along the Base Line to the north-east corner of Section six (6) , Township one (1 ) South, Range forty-two (42 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence

Description.

southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the northwest corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the range line, to the north-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range forty-three (43 ) East ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) .

Township two (2 ) South, Range forty-three (43) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township two (2) South, Range forty-four (44) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three (3) , Township three (3) South, Range forty- four (44) East ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen (13 ) , said township; thence southerly to the north - west corner of the south-west quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township three (3) South, Range forty-five (45 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section seventeen (17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of. the south-west quarter of Sectior twenty -nine (29 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25) , said township ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirty ( 30) , Township three (3) South, Range forty-six (46 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty- four (24) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the

north- west quarter of Section twenty-two (22 ) , Township three (3 ) South, Range forty-seven (47) East ; thence southerly to the

3006

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReWsaelrlvowea-FCoornteisnt- south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence

ued.

westerly to the north -west corner of Section twenty- seven (27 ) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section twentysix (26) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirteen ( 13) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , Town-

ship three ( 3 ) South, Range Forty-eight (48 ) East ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of the north - west

quarter of Section four (4 ) , Township four (4 ) South, Range fortyeight (48 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of the north -west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-three (33) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the northwest quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of the south-

east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , Township three ( 3 ) ,

South, Range forty-eight (48 ) East ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section

twenty-four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) . Township three (3 ) South, Range forty -nine (49) East ; thence easterly to the middle of the channel of Snake

River ; thence in a general south - westerly direction along the middle of the channel of said river to its intersection with the section line

between Sections nineteen ( 19 ) and thirty (30 ) , Township five ( 5) South, Range forty-nine (49 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-

east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , Township five (5 ) South, Range forty-eight (48 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of

Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly along the First

( 1st ) Standard Parallel South to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5) , Township six (6 ) South, Range forty-eight (48 ) East ;

thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said township ; thence

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3007

westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly Wallowa Forest Reserve -Contin-
to the south-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township seven ( 7) ued. South, Range forty-seven (47 ) East ; thence westerly to the northeast corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of the south- east quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township seven (7) South, Range forty-six (46 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the north-east quarter of saidsection ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twelve ( 12) , Township seven (7) South, Range forty-five ( 45 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the southeast quarter of Section seven ( 7) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south- east corner of Township six (6 ) South ; Range forty- three (43 ) East ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township six (6 ) South, Range forty-two (42 ) East ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north- west quarter of Section fifteen (15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south- east quarter of Section seven (7 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section six (6) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the First ( 1st ) Standard Parallel South, to the north- west corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirty ( 30) , Township five ( 5 ) South, Range forty-two (42 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the range line , to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Township five ( 5) South , Range forty-one (41 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south - east corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the south - west quarter of Section twenty- seven (27) , Township four (4 ) South , Range forty- one (41 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south- east quarter of Section thirty-two (32 ) , Township three (3) South, Range forty-one (41 ) East ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly

3008

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

ReWsaelrlovwea-FCoonrteisnt- to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ;

ued.

thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of Section

thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner

of the south- west quarter of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence north-

erly to the south -east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township three

(3 ) South, Range forty (40) East ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence north-

erly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north- west quarter

of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of section

two ( 2) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of

the south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-

east corner of the north-west quarter of Section thirty-five ( 35) ,

Township two (2 ) South, Range forty (40) East ; thence westerly

to the south-west corner of the north- west quarter of said section ;

thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-seven

(27) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section

nine (9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section

four (4) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Town-

ship one ( 1 ) South, Range forty- one ( 41 ) East, the place of begin-

ning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established

by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where

such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur

Lands excepted.

in actually extending the surveys. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this

Reserved settlement.
Name.

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set-
tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Wallowa
Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

3009 May 6, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Grand Cañon Whereas, The Grand Cañon Forest Reserve, in the Territory of Forest Reserve, Arizona, was established by proclamation dated February twentieth, ArPirze. amble. eighteen hundred and ninety-three, under and by virtue of section Vol. 27, p. 1064.
twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen VPools. t2,6p, pp.. 31120233. , hundred and ninety -one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber - culture 3263.
laws, and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President

of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve,

in any State or Territory having public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ":

And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, Vol. 30, p. 36.

approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary

lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ";

Now, therefore, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the Lands added.

United States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved from entry or settlement, and added to and made a part of

the aforesaid Grand Cañon Forest Reserve, all those certain tracts,

pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the Territory of

Arizona and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :

Beginning at the point where the range line between Ranges four Description.

(4) and four and one-half ( 43 ) West, Salt Lake Meridian, inter-

sects the boundary line between the State of Utah and the Terri-

tory of Arizona ; thence due south twelve ( 12 ) miles ; thence due

west four (4 ) miles ; thence due south six ( 6 ) miles ; thence due west

eight ( 8 ) miles ; thence due south to the centre of the stream bed of Snake Gulch ; thence in a westerly direction along the centre of

the stream bed of said Gulch to its intersection with Kanab Creek ;

thence in a general southerly direction along the middle of the chan-

nel of said creek to its intersection with the north boundary of The

Grand Cañon Forest Reserve ; thence easterly along said boundary

thirty-eight ( 38 ) miles ; thence due north seven (7) miles ; thence

due west two ( 2 ) miles ; thence due north four (4 ) miles ; thence

due west two ( 2 ) miles ; thence due north five ( 5 ) miles ; thence due

west one ( 1 ) mile ; thence due north twelve ( 12 ) miles ; thence due

east one ( 1 ) mile ; thence due north to the boundary line between the

State of Utah and the Territory of Arizona ; thence westerly along said boundary line to its intersection with the range line between

Ranges four (4) and four and one-half (4 ) West, Salt Lake

Meridian, the place of beginning ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

3010

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set-

tlement upon the tract of land reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand , nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth.. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

May 12, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

The Wenaha For- WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Con-

est Reserve, Oreg.

and Wash.

gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety one, enti-

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

tled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ",

Post, p. 3279. "That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered

with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the States of Oregon and Wash-

ington, within the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted

by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Oregon and Wash-

ington.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the States of Oregon and Washington ,

Description.

and within the boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north- west corner of Township nine ( 9) North,
Range forty- one (41 ) East ,. Willamette Meridian, Washington ;

thence easterly to the north- west corner of Township nine ( 9 ) North,

Range forty-three ( 43 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west cor-

ner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner

of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

twelve (12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner

of Section thirty-six (36) , said township : thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south - west

corner of said section ; thence easterly along the Second (2nd ) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) ,Township

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3011

eight ( 8) North, Range forty- four ( 44 ) East ; thence southerly to Wenaha Forest Reserve - Contin-
the north-west corner of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; ued. thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eleven (11 ) , Township seven ( 7) North, Range forty- four (44) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section twentyfour ( 24 ) , Township seven ( 7) North, Range forty-three ( 43 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirtytwo (32) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the State Line between the States of Washington and Oregon, to the south- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range forty-two (42 ) East, Willamette Meridian, Oregon ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the First ( 1st ) Standard Parallel North, to the south- east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township four (4 ) North, Range fortyone (41 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range forty (40 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , Township four ( 4) North, Range thirty-nine ( 39 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section three (3 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North , Range thirty- nine ( 39 ) East ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section four (4), said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Sec-
tion thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the northeast corner of Township two ( 2) North, Range thirty-eight ( 38) East ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section one ( 1) , Township one ( 1 ) North , Range thirty-eight ( 38 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township; thence easterly along the Base Line to the north-east corner of Section five (5) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range thirty-eight ( 38 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township two (2 ) South, Range thirty-eight (38 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section three (3 ) , Township two (2) South, Range thirty-seven ( 37 ) East ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range thirtyseven ( 37) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said
VOL XXXIV, PT 3-12

3012

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReWseenravhea-FCoornetisnt- section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty

ued .

(30) , said township ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing

for the proper offsets, to the north- west corner of Township three (3)

North, Range thirty-seven ( 37 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of said township ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the First ( 1st ) Standard Parallel

North, to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township

five (5 ) North , Range thirty-eight ( 38 ) East ; thence easterly to the

south- west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence

northerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offsets,

to the north- west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , Township six (6) North, Range thirty-eight (38 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of said section ; thence northerly_along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the State Line between the States

of Oregon and Washington, to the north-west corner of Section ten

( 10) , said township, in Washington ; thence easterly to the south - west

corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north - east

corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south- west corner of

Section nineteen ( 19) , Township seven (7) North, Range thirty-

nine ( 39 ) East ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said sec-

tion ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section seventeen

(17) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Sec-

tion sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of Section three (3) , said township ; thence easterly to the

south-west corner of Township eight ( 8 ) North , Range forty ( 40 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen

( 19) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty- one (21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of Section four ( 4 ) , said township ; thence westerly along the Second (2nd) Standard Parallel North to the south - west

corner of Section thirty- three ( 33 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range

forty (40 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said

section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-

seven (27) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section

twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east

corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of

Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Township nine (9 ) North, Range forty- one (41 ) East,

the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not

been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities

which may occur in actually extending the surveys:

Lands excepted.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

Reserved settlement .
Name.

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Wenaha Forest Reserve.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. T. ROOSEVELT
By the President : FRANCIS B LOOMIS Acting Secretary of State.

3013

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 12, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Con- The Leadville Forgress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, enti- esPtrReeasmebrlvee., Colo. tled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ", Vol. 26, p. 1103. "That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as
public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;
And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado, within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United Forest reserve, Colorado.
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaini that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of
land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Town- Description. ship one ( 1 ) North, Range seventy-eight (78 ) West, Sixth (6th ) Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range seventy-seven ( 77) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly along the Base Line to the north-east corner of Section three ( 3) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range seventy-seven (77 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; then easterly to the north-east corner of Township two (2 ) South, Range seventy-seven ( 77 ) West ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north - east corner of Section four (4) , Township three ( 3 ) South , Range seventy-six (76 )

3014

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReLseeadrvviell-e CFoonrteisnt- West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-

ued.

three (33 ) , Township four ( 4 ) South, Range seventy-six ( 76 ) West ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township five (5 ) South, Range seventy-six (76) West ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of said township ; thence westerly along the First Correction

Line South to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , Township

six ( 6 ) South, Range seventy-six ( 76 ) West ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ;

thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Town-

ship seven ( 7) South, Range seventy- seven ( 77) West ; thence south-

erly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- six (26 ) , said town-

ship ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-three

(33) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Township

eight ( 8 ) South, Range seventy- nine ( 79 ) West ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the

south- west corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence

southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offsets, to

the south- east corner of Section fourteen (14 ) , Township twelve (12 )

South, Range seventy-nine ( 79) West ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-two ( 22) ,

Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range seventy-eight (78 ) West ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of the south -west quarter of Sec-

tion thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) South , Range seventy -eight (78) West ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section

nineteen ( 19 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range seventy-seven (77) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to

the north-east corner of Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range

seventy-seven ( 77 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner

of Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range seventy-seven ( 77) West ;

thence westerly along the Third ( 3rd ) Correction Line South to the

south- west corner of Section thirty- three (33 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen (17 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twelve

(12) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range seventy-eight (78)

West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly

to the south-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly

to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , Township

thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range seventy-eight (78 ) West ; thence north-

erly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty ( 30) ,

said township ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of the

south-west quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly

to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township thirteen ( 13) South, Range seventy-nine ( 79 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west cor-

ner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the

south-east quarter of Section thirty- five ( 35 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range seventy-nine ( 79 ) West : thence northerly to the north-

west corner of the north -east quarter of said section ; thence westerly

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

3015

to the south-west corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; Leadville Forest Reserve - Contin-
thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter ued. of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen (15) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of the north-east quarter of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the north-east quarter of Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north -east quarter of Section twenty ( 20 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range seventy- nine ( 79 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of Section nineteen (19 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence northerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Second (2nd) Correction Line South , to the south-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) South , Range eighty ( 80) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-two (32) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range seventynine (79 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section eight (8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range seventy-nine ( 79) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north -west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north- east quarter of Section one ( 1 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north -east quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south west corner of the northwest quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range eighty (80 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty- one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section eight ( 8 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; thence westerly

3016

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

ReLseeardvviell-e CFoonrteins-t to the north-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Township nine

ued .

( 9 ) South, Range eighty-one ( 81 ) West ; thence southerly to the

north-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township ten (10) South,

Range eighty- one ( 81 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) ,

said township; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for

the proper offset on the Second ( 2nd ) Correction Line South, to the north-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , Township eleven

( 11 ) South, Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner

of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-

west quarter of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south- east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east

quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South , Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen (18) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range seventy -nine

(79) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence east-

erly to the north- east corner of Section twenty ( 20) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section ten

( 10 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South , Range seventy-nine ( 79 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence south-

erly to the south- east corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence south-

erly to the north- west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range seventy-nine ( 79 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-

west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range seventy-nine ( 79 ) West ; thence easterly to the north - east

corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

the south- east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the northwest corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) ,

said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-

east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said township ; thence easterly along the Third (3rd ) Correction

Line South to the north-east corner of Township fifty-one ( 51 ) North, Range seven (7) East, New Mexico Principal Meridian ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Township fifty-one (51 ) North , Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said township ; thence westerly along the Third (3rd ) Correction.

Line South to the south-west corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range eighty-one (81 ) West, Sixth ( 6th ) Principal Meridian ;

thence northerly to the north- west corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range eighty-one ( 81 ) West ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Township twelve ( 12) South, Range eighty-two (82 )

West ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Second (2nd) Correction Line South, to the north-

west corner of Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range eighty- two (82 )

West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ;

thence northerly to the north- west corner of Township eight ( 8)

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3017

South, Range eighty -one ( 81 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east Leadville Fores Reserve Contin
corner of Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; ued. thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township six ( 6 ) South, Range seventy- nine ( 79 ) West ; thence westerly along the First (1st ) Correction Line South to the south-west corner of Township five ( 5 ) South, Range seventy- nine ( 79 ) West ; thence northerly to the south - east corner of Township three ( 3) South, Range eighty ( 80) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Township two (2 ) South, Range eighty- one ( 81 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section two (2) , said township ; thence easterly along the township line, allowing for the proper offset, to the north-east corner of Section four ( 4) , Township two (2) South, Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen (15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section thirty (30 ) , Township two (2 ) South, Range seventy-nine ( 79 ) West ; thence southerly to the north- east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-two (32) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Section four ( 4) , Township three ( 3) South, Range seventy -nine (79) West ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen (15) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section fourteen (14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south -east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the northwest corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township three (3 ) South, Range seventy-eight (78 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the north-west quarter of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of the southeast quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south -east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of the north-west quarter of Section four (4) , Township four (4) South , Range seventy-eight ( 78 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the southeast quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the north -west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township five (5) South, Range seventy-

eight ( 78 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said seetion ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the north-west quarter of the north- west quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the south -west quarter of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to

3018

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

ReLesaedvrilvleerest the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty-

ued.

four ( 24) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of

Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south- east corner of said township ; thence westerly along the First

(1st ) Correction Line South to the north-east corner of the north-

west quarter of the north- west quarter of Section one ( 1 ) , Township six (6 ) South, Range seventy - eight ( 78 ) West ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the

north -west quarter of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west

quarter of the north-east quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west

quarter of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to

the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twentyfour ( 24) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner

of the south- west quarter of Section one ( 1 ) , Township seven (7)

South, Range seventy-eight ( 78 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-

west corner of Section five (5 ) , Township seven (7) South, Range

seventy-seven (77) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section

thirty-three (33) , Township six ( 6 ) South , Range seventy- seven (77) West; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the northeast quarter of Section twenty (20 ) , said township ; thence westerly

to the south-west corner of the north- east quarter of Section nineteen (19 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

the north-east quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of

the south-west quarter of Section seven ( 7 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north- east quarter of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south - west corner of the south-east quarter of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north- west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly along the First ( 1st ) Correction Line South to the south-west corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) ,

Township five ( 5 ) South , Range seventy-seven (77) West ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the southeast quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south- east quarter of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of Section six ( 6 ) , said township : thence northerly to the south -east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty - five ( 25 ) , Town-

ship four (4 ) South, Range seventy-eight ( 78 ) West ; thence west-

erly to the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north -east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section

twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north - west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the

south-east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eleven (11 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south - east corner of the

north- east quarter of Section thirty - four ( 34 ) , township three ( 3 ) South, Range seventy-eight (78 ) West; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of the north -west quarter of said section ; thence north-

erly to the south east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ;

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3019

thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence north- Leadville Forest Reserve - Contin-
erly to the north- west corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; ued.

thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said town-

ship; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north- east

quarter of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township two (2 ) South, Range

seventy-nine (79) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north- east quarter

of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

south- west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly
to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-

one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south -east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the south-east

quarter of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of Section six ( 6 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said town-

ship; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township one ( 1 ) South, Range seventy-nine ( 79 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence east-

erly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section

thirty-two ( 32 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South , Range seventy-eight ( 78 )

West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of

Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-

east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly

along the Base Line to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four

(34 ) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range seventy - eight ( 78) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of the south -east quarter of Section twenty-seven ( 27) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section fifteen

(15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section, the place of beginning; such of the above-named corners

as have not been established by the official surveys being intended

to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any

irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ; Excepting from the force and effect.of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted .

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement.

menTtheuproensetrhveatliaonndsherreesbeyrveesdtabbylitshhiesd psrhoaclllabmeatkionno.wn as The Lead- Name.

ville Forest Reserve.

3020

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of May, in the

1

[ SEAL. ]

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President :
FRANCIS B. LOOMIS t
Acting Secretary of State.

May 12 , 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Sevier For-

est Reserve, Utah.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty - four of the Act of

Preamble.
Vol. 26, p. 1103. Post, p. 3187.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses "",, " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Utah, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Utah .

Now, therefore , I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress , do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Utah, and within the

Description.

boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-east corner of Township thirty - three (33 )

South, Range six ( 6 ) West , Salt Lake Meridian, Utah ; thence south-

erly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said town-

ship ; thence westerly to the north - west corner of Section twenty-seven

(27) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of

Section ten ( 10 ) , Township thirty-four (34 ) South, Range six (6) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the south -east corner of Section thirty-four ( 34) , Town-

ship thirty-five (35 ) South, Range six ( 6 ) West ; thence westerly

along the Seventh (7th ) Standard Parallel South to the north-east

corner of Section five (5 ) , Township thirty-six ( 36 ) South, Range

six (6 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-

east quarter of Section twenty (20) , Township thirty-eight (38 )

South, Range six ( 6 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner

of the north-west quarter of Section twenty- four (24 ) , Township thirty-eight (38 ) South, Range seven ( 7 ) West ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ;

thence westerly to the north -east corner of Section four ( 4 ) , Town-

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3021

ship thirty-nine (39 ) South, Range seven (7 ) West ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence

westerly to the north- east corner of the north-west quarter of Section

seventeen (17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township thirty- nine (39 ) South, Range eight ( 8 )

West ; thence northerly to the south - east corner of Section eleven

( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said

section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north- east

quarter of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

south- west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence

northerly to the south -east corner of the north-west quarter of Section

thirty- four (34 ) , Township thirty-eight (38 ) South, Range eight ( 8 )

West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north- west

quarter of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence northerly

to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty

(20) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the

north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south - east

corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east

corner of the north-east quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township

thirty-eight ( 38 ) South, Range nine (9 ) West ; thence westerly to the

south- west corner of the north- east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the south-

west quarter of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence westerly to

the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Township thirty-seven (37 ) South, Range nine ( 9 ) West ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Township thirty-six (36 ) South,

Range nine ( 9) West ; thence easterly along the Seventh (7th )

Standard Parallel South to the north-east corner of said township ;

thence northerly to the north- west corner of Township thirty-five (35 ) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence easterly to the south- east

corner of Township thirty- four (34 ) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township thirty- three

(33 ) South, Range seven (7) West ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Township thirty-three (33 ) South, Range six ( 6 ) West , the

place of beginning ; such of the above- named corners as have not been

established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the

points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted .

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is

hereby

expressly

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

settle-

Reserved settlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Sevier Name.

Forest Reserve.

from

3022

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of May, in the year year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and

[ SEAL . ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

May 12, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Chesnimnus

Forest Reserve, WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Oreg. Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one ,

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

Post, p. 3284. poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Oregon, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve,

Oregon.

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Oregon, and within the

Description.

boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-west corner of Section thirty (30 ) , Town-

ship four ( 4 ) North , Range forty- four (44) East, Willamette Merid-

ian, Oregon ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section

twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - west

corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township four (4 ) North, Range forty-five (45 ) East ; thence easterly along the First ( 1st ) Standard Parallel North

to the south- east corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range forty-five (45 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29) , said township; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east

corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range forty-six (46 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township five

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3023

(5) North, Range forty-seven (47 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -west corner

of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of Section twenty (20 ) , said township ; thence southerly

to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six ( 36) , said township ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the

proper offset on the First ( 1st ) Standard Parallel North, to the

north-west corner of Section seven (7) , Township four (4) North ,

Range forty-eight (48 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said sec-

tion ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the north-west quar-

ter of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south - east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty (20) , said town-

ship ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-

eight ( 28) , Township three (3) North, Range forty-eight (48 ) East ;

thence westerly to the north- east corner of Section thirty- one ( 31 ) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said sec-

tion ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Township three ( 3 )

North, Range forty-seven (47 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North ,

Range forty-six (46 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-east corner

of Section nineteen (19) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south - west

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township two (2) North, Range forty-five

(45 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-

east quarter of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence south-

erly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section

thirty-four (34) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west

corner of the north- west quarter of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township

two ( 2 ), North, Range forty- four (44) East ; thence northerly to the

south- east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of the south-east quarter of Section six (6 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north- east corner of the north-west quarter

of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township

three ( 3 ) North, Range forty- four (44 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30 ) , Township four (4)

North, Range forty-four ( 44 ) East, the place of beginning ; such of

the above-named corners as have not been established by the official

surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners

would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated with-

out allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually

extending the surveys ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is hereby expressly given to

all

persons not to

make

settle-

Reserved settlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

from

3024 Name.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Chesnimnus Forest Reserve.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .
Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. T. ROOSEVELT
By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS Acting Secretary of State.

May 12, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Elkhorn For-

est Reserve, Mont.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103. Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Montana, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve,

Montana.

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Montana, and within the

Description.

boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the south-west corner of Township six ( 6 ) North,
Range three (3 ) West, Principal Meridian, Montana ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the

south- east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township seven ( 7) North, Range three (3) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

south- east corner of Section thirty- four (34) , Township eight ( 8) North, Range three ( 3 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west

corner of Section two (2) , said township ; thence easterly along the Second ( 2nd ) Standard Parallel North to the south-east corner of

Township nine (9 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) West ; thence northerly

to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township nine (9) North, Range two ( 2 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence easterly along the Second (2nd) Standard Parallel North to

the north- east corner of Section four (4) , Township eight ( 8 ) North , Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

3025

Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Section twenty- four ( 24) , said township ; thence southerly to the 'south -east corner of Township six (6 ) North, Range one ( 1) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Township six ( 6) North, Range three (3 ) West, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated with-

out allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually

extending the surveys ;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set- settlement.

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. Name.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Elkhorn

Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth .

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May, 12, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

it

is

provided

by

section

twenty- four

of the

Act

of The Gunnison Forest Reserve,

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, Colo. Preamble.
entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur- Vol . 26, p. 1103.

poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ; Forest reserve,
Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Colorado.
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

3026

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within the

Description .

boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-west corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South ,

Range eighty-eight ( 88 ) West, Sixth ( 6th ) Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly along the township line to the north -east

corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range eighty-three ( 83 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range eighty-two ( 82 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range eighty-two_ ( 82) West ; thence easterly along the Third (3rd) Correction Line South

to the north-east corner of Township fifty-one ( 51 ) North , Range

four (4 ) East, New Mexico Principal Meridian ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , fractional Township fiftyone ( 51 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Section ten (10) , said township ; thence westerly along the Third (3rd ) Correction Line South to the south - west

corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , Township fifteen South, Range

eighty-four ( 84 ) West, Sixth (6th ) Principal Meridian ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section twenty

(20) , Township fifteen (15 ) South, Range eighty-three (83 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to

the south-east corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section twelve ( 12) ,

Township fifteen ( 15 ) South , Range eighty- four ( 84 ) West ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to



the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the

north- west quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence
northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to
the south-west corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence "
northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly
to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range eighty- five (85 ) West ; thence northerly to

the south-east corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of said section ; thence north-

erly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- six

(36) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South , Range eighty-six ( 86 ) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section

fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west cor-

ner of said section ; thence westerly to the north - east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-

west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence

casterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township : thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ,, Township fourteen (14) South, Range eighty-six (86 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east

1

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3027

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Gunnison Forest Reserve- Contin-
said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section ued.
twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of Section thirty-five ( 35) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township fifteen (15 ) South, Range eighty-seven (87) West ; thence southerly to the north-

west corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly along the Third (3rd ) Correction Line South to the north-east corner of Township fifty-one ( 51 ) North, Range two (2 ) West, New Mexico Principal Meridian ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township fifty ( 50) North, Range two (2) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Township forty-nine (49 ) North, Range four ( 4 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twelve (12 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township forty-nine (49) North, Range five (5 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25) , Township forty-nine (49 ) North, Range six (6 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section twenty- nine (29) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-four (24) , Township fifty (50) North, Range six (6 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence. northerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Township fifty-one ( 51 ) North , Range six ( 6 ) West ; thence westerly along the Third ( 3rd ) Correction Line South to the south-west corner of the south- east quarter

of Section thirty-four ( 34 ) , Township fifteen ( 15) South, Range ninety-one (91 ) West, Sixth ( 6th ) Principal Meridian ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south- east quarter of Section -twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west.

corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section fourteen (14) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of
VOL XXXIV, PT 3--13

3028

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReGsuenrnvieso-n CFoonrteisrt Section thirty-two (32) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range

ued.

ninety-one (91 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

the north-east quarter of Section twenty-nine ( 29) , said township ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence "
northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of the south-east

quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to

the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to

the north-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence

casterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve (12 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty

(30) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range ninety (90 ) West;

thence easterly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of

Section twenty ( 20) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of said section ;

thence northerly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the south- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ;

thence easterly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of

Section seven ( 7 ) , Township thirteen ( 13) South , Range eighty-nine (89 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-

east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

of the south-west quarter of Section nine (9), said township ; thence

southerly to the south- east corner of the south- west quarter of said

section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section twelve

(12 ) , said township; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly

to the north-west corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range

eighty-eight ( 88 ) West, the place of beginning ; such of the abovenamed corners as have not been established by the official surveys

being intended to be located at the points where such corners would

fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without

Lands excepted.

allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

Reserved settlement.
Name.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to
inake entry or filing of record has not expired Provided, that this
exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Gunnison Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 . BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

3029 May 12, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

The

Pikes

Peak

Timber

Land

Reserve,

The

Plum The Pikes Peak Forest Reserve,

Creek Timber Land Reserve and the South Platte Forest Reserve, in CoPlroe. amble.

the State of Colorada, have been heretofore established by proclama- Vol. 27. pp. 1006.

tions, under the provisions of the acts of March third, eighteen hun- 1014, 1029, 1044; Vol. 33, p. 2382.

dred and ninety-one, entitled , " An act to repeal timber-culture laws, Vol. 26, p. 1103.

and for other purposes ", and June fourth, eightee nhundred and
36. ninety-seven, entitled , "An act making appropriations for sundry Vol. 30, p.

civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June

thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes " ;

And whereas, it appears proper that the greater portion of the area embraced in said forest reserves, with the addition thereto of

certain lands, should be included in one reserve and be designated by one name ; and it appears that the public lands in the State of

Colorado, within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered

with timber, and that the public good would be promoted by setting

apart and reserving the same as a public reservation ;

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt ,

President

of the

United est

Reserve,

Colo.,

States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid acts of established in place

Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that the proclama- oPflumPikCerseek,Peaankd, tions heretofore issued respecting said forest reserves are hereby South Platte re-
serves .
superseded, and The Pikes Peak Forest Reserve is hereby established

in place thereof, with boundaries as follows :

Beginning at the north- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Town- Description.

ship two (2 ) South, Range seventy- four (74 ) West, Sixth ( 6th ) Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the south-west cor-

ner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north- west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of Section

thirteen ( 13 ) , Township two (2 ) South , Range seventy-three ( 73 )

West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- five (25) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Sec-

tion thirty- four ( 34) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township three ( 3) South , Range

seventy-three ( 73 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty (20) , Township three (3) South, Range seventy- four

(74) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-

east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of the south -east quarter of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north- east quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township four (4 ) South, Range seventy- four

(74) West ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the north - east

quarter of Section seventeen ( 17) , Township four (4 ) South , Range seventy-five (75) West ; thence southerly to the north- east corner of

the south- east quarter of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence

easterly to the north- east corner of the south- east quarter of Section nineteen (19 ) , Township four (4 ) South, Range seventy- four (74)

West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the south -west corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nine

(9) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three

(3) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said

township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thir-

teen ( 13) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east.corner of

3030

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

estPiRkeesserPveea-k CFoonr- the north-west quarter of Section twenty- four (24) , said township ;

tinued.

thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of

Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of the south- east quarter of Section thirty- two

( 32) , Township four ( 4) South, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of the north-

west quarter of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence north-

erly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- five (25) , said township; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section two

(2) , Township five ( 5) South, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of the north - west

quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirty ( 30 ) , Township five ( 5 ) South, Range seventy-two ( 72 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the First ( 1st) Correction Line South, to the

south-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , Township six (6 ) South, Range seventy-two (72) West ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north -east quarter of Section twenty (20 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of lot two (2 ) of fractional Section

nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township six (6 ) South, Range seventy-three

(73) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section twentytwo ( 22) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of the south- west quarter of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to

the south - east corner of Section thirty- four " (34) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township seven (7) South, Range seventy-three ( 73 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of lot two ( 2 ) of fractional Section thirty (30) , Township seven (7) South, Range seventy-two (72 ) West ; thence easterly to

the north-east corner of the south - east quarter of Section twentynine ( 29 ) , said township thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section

twenty-nine (29) , Township seven ( 7) South , Range seventy (70) West ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of the south-west quarter

of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-

west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west

'corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township; thence easterly to

the north- east corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- six (26 ) , said town-

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3031

ship ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence Pikes Peak Forest Reserve--Con-
easterly to the south- west corner of Section . thirty ( 30) , Township tinued. seven (7) South, Range sixty- nine (69 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township eight ( 8 ) South,, Range sixty-nine (69 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section five ( 5) , Township nine ( 9) South, Range sixty-eight ( 68 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north-west quarter of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirty- four ( 34) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range sixtyeight (68) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly along the Second (2nd) Correction Line South to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range sixty-seven ( 67) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-three (33) , Township thirteen (13) South, Range sixty-seven ( 67) West ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Township fourteen ( 14) South, Range sixtyeight ( 68 ) West ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section nineteen (19 ) , Township fourteen ( 14) South, Range . sixty-seven (67) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twentyone (21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section three (3 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Rango sixty-seven (67) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty- four (34) , said township ; thence westerly along the Third (3rd) Correction Line South, to the south-west corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range sixty-eight (68 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly. to the south-east corner of Section thirty-four (34) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range sixty-nine ( 69) West; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north -east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the southeast quarter of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of

3032

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estPiRkeesserPveea-k . CFoonr- the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-

tinued.

east corner of the south-east quarter of Section six ( 6) , said township ;

thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south -east quarter of

said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-

west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range sixty-nine ( 69) West ;

thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) ,

said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section

thirteen ( 13 ) , said township; thence northerly to the north- east

corner of Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range sixty-nine ( 69 ) West ;

thence westerly along the Second ( 2nd ) Correction Line South to the

north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence southerly

to the south-west corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence south-

erly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said town-

ship ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west

quarter of Section three ( 3 ) , Township twelve (12) South, Range sixty-nine (69 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

the south-west quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the south- west corner of Section seventeen (17) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ;

thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) ,

Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range seventy (70) West ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to

the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of Sec-

tion twenty-four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-

west quarter of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of Section

twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south - east

corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence westerly

to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of the south-east quarter of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east

quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township twelve (12 ) South, Range seventy- one

( 71 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township thirteen ( 13) South , Range seventy- one

(71) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township fourteen (14 ) South, Range seventy-one (71 ) West ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township fourteen ( 14) South, Range seventy-two (72 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-

east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section seventeen

( 17) , said township ; thence westerly to the north -east corner of the

south-east quarter of Section thirteen (13 ) , Township fourteen (14 )

South, Range seventy-three ( 73 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of Section twenty-four (24) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section

twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to

the south- west corner of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the south- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said town-

ship; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) ,

Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range seventy- four ( 74) West ; thence

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905 .

3033

northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to Pikes Peak Forest Reserve - Con-
the south-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence tinued. southerly to the south-east corner of the north- east quarter of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of the south- west quarter of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of Section two ( 2) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range seventy- four (74 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of the south -east quarter of Section four (4) , said township ; thence southerly to the north -west corner of the south-west quarter of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section twentyseven ( 27) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Third ( 3rd) Correction Line South, to the south-east corner of the north -east quarter of Section nine ( 9 ) , Township fifty-one ( 51 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East, New Mexico Príncipal Meridian ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Township fifty-one (51 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence northerly along the section lines to the point of intersection with the Third (3rd) Correction Line South ; thence westerly along said Correction Line to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty- one (31 ) , Township fifteen ( 15) South, Range seventy-five ( 75 ) West, Sixth ( 6th) Principal Meridian ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the southwest quarter of Section twenty -nine ( 29) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of the south-east quarter of said section thence easterly to the north-west corner of the south- west quarter on the south- west quarter of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-four ( 24) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north- west quarter of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section three (3) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range seventy - four (74) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to

3034

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estPiBreesse1rve tinued.

For the north- west corner of the south-west quarter of Section five (5) , Con-
said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the southeast quarter of Section one (1 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the south- west quarter of Section six ( 6 ) , Township thirteen (13 ) South, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of the south-west quarter of Section five (5) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of Section two (2 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the northwest quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Sec-
tion thirty-six ( 36 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of said section; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence easterly. to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four ( 34) , Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of the north- east quarter of Section : thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the
south- east quarter of Section eighteen ( 18) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township eleven' ( 11 ) South, Range seventy-four ( 74) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-, west quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- west corner of the north- west quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-east quarter of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly along the quarter- section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Second (2nd ) Correction Line South, to the north- west

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3035

corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty- four (34) , Town- Pikes Peak Forest Reserve Con-
ship ten ( 10) South, Range seventy- four (74 ) West ; thence easterly tinted.

to the north-east corner of the south -east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section three (3) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of

said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-

west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of Township nine ( 9) South, Range seventy-five (75) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty- five

(35) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range seventy-five (75) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township seven ( 7) South, Range seventy-five ( 75 ) West ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Town- : ship seven (7) South , Range seventy-six (76) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen (16 ) , Township eight ( 8) South, Range seventy-six (76 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-nine (29) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south - east

corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range

seventy-seven (77) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section two (2) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Second (2nd ) Correction Line South, to the north-west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range seventyseven ( 77) West ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section

twenty- eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south - east corner of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , Township twelve (12) South, Range seventy-seven (77) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section four (4 ) , Township thirteen (13 ) South , Range

seventy-seven ( 77) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

the north-west quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the south - west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen (17) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range seventy-six ( 76 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty- nine (29 ) ,

said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of the northwest quarter of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south- east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four ( 4) , Township fourteen ( 14) South, Range seventy- six ( 76 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to

3036

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estFiRkeesserPveea-k CFoonr- the north-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence

tinued .

southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence southerly

to the south- east corner of the north- west quarter of Section one ( 1 ) ,

Township fifteen ( 15) South, Range seventy-six ( 76 ) West ; thence

westerly to the north-east corner of the south -east quarter of Section

T

two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of the north-

west quarter of Section ten (10) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of the north - west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of said' section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-

eight (28) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of

said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Township thirteen (13 ) South, Range seventy-seven ( 77) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) ,

said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section

twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to

the south- east corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South , Range seventyeight (78 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of Section thirty-four (34 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the north- east quarter of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range seventy- nine (79) West ; thence northerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Second ( 2nd ) Correction Line South, to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township

eight ( 8 ) South , Range seventy-nine ( 79 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range seventy -eight ( 78 ) West ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty- four

(34) , Township seven (7) South, Range seventy-seven (77) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section : thence

easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section one

(1 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty- four (34) , Township six (6 ) South, Range seventy -six (76) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section

three (3 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the First ( 1st ) Correction Line South to the south-east corner of Township five (5 ) South, Range seventy-six ( 76 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Section thirty- four (34) , Township four (4 ) South, Range seventysix (76 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section

three (3 ) , Township three (3 ) South, Range seventy-six ( 76 ) West ;

1

thence easterly to the south-west corner of Township two ( 2) South,

Range seventy- four (74) West ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points

where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the direc-

tions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may

1

Lands excepted.

occur in extending the surveys ; Excepting from the force and

effect

of

this

proclamation

all

lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3037

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided , That this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant.continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made ;
Provided further, That nothing herein shall give any force or effect to any claim or right to any of the lands heretofore embraced within

the reserves hereby consolidated which would not have been entitled
to recognition if said reserves as heretofore established had been continued in force without being merged into a single reserve as hereinbefore provided .
The lands hereby excluded from the reserve and restored to the reEsxtcolreuddedtolpaunbldisc public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but domain.
shall not be subject to entry, filing or selection until after ninety days
notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.
Reserved from Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement. ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of May, in the year

of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 15, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS,

by

Executive

Order

dated

December

27 ,

1875 ,

Sec-

Mi. ion Indian lands, California.

tions 5 and 6, township 15 south, range 2 east, San Bernardino Preamble.

Meridian, California, were with certain other tracts of land with-

drawn from the public domain and reserved for the use of the Capitan Grande Band or Village of Mission Indians ; and

WHEREAS , the Commission appointed upder the provisions of the Act of Congress approved January 12, 1891 , entitled "An Act for the relief of the Mission Indians in the State of California," (U. S.

Statutes at Large, vol. 26, page 712 ) selected for the said Capitan Grande band or village of Indians certain tracts of land and intentionally omitted and excluded from such selection the said sections.

5 and 6, township 15 south, range 2 east ; and WHEREAS , the report and recommendations of the said Commis-
sion were approved by Executive Order dated December 29 , 1891 , which Order also directed that "All of the lands mentioned in said

report are hereby withdrawn from settlement and entry until patents shall have issued for said selected reservations, and until the recom-

mendations of said Commission shall be fully executed , and , by the

proclamation of the President of the United States, the lands or any

part thereof shall be restored to the public domain ; " and WHEREAS , a patent was issued March 10, 1894, to the said

Indians for the lands selected by the Commission as aforesaid and

3038 ',

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

which patent also excluded the said Sections 5 and 6, township 15

south, range 2 east ; and WHEREAS it appears that on the 10th day of March, 1895, Joseph
J. Henderson entered upon the Southeast of the Southeast 1 , Section
5 , township 15 south, range 2 east, San Bernardino Meridian, for the purpose of taking the land under the homestead law, and cannot
make the requisite filings on the land occupied by him until it shall have been formally restored to the public domain, and that no good reason appears to exist for the further reservation of said Sections 5
and 6 for the said band of Indians : Certain lands reserved for Mission NOW, THEREFORE, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, PRESIIndians, restored to DENT OF THE UNITED STATES, by virtue of the power in me, public domain.
vested, do hereby declare and make known that Executive Orders
dated December 27, 1875 , and December 29, 1891 , are so far modified

as to except from their provisions Sections 5 and 6, of township 15 south, range 2 east, San Bernardino Meridian, and the said sections

are hereby restored to the public domain.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

1

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

8

Done at the City of Washington this 15th day of May in the year

of our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President: FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

May 15, 190 .

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, A PROCLAMATION.

Tonnage dues , Whereas, satisfactory proof has been given to me by the Govern-

Panama.

Preamble.

ment of the Republic of Panama that no discriminating duties of

tonnage or imposts are imposed or levied in the ports of that Republic

upon vessels wholly belonging to citizens of the United States or

upon the produce, manufactures, or merchandise imported in such

vessels from the United States, or from any foreign country :

Panama. Suspension of

Now, therefore, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the

discriminating ton- United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by nage, etc., duties.
sec. 4228, section four thousand two hundred and twenty-eight of the Revised

p. 814.

Statutes of the United States, do hereby declare and proclaim that,

the foreign discriminating duties of tonnage and imposts within the

United States are suspended and discontinued so far as respects the

vessels of the Republic of Panama, and the produce, manufactures, or

merchandise imported into the United States from the Republic of

Panama, or from any other foreign country ; the suspension to take

effect on and after the date of this proclamation and to continue so

long as the reciprocal exemation of vessels belonging to citizens of

the United States, and their cargoes, shall be continued, and no longer.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington, the 15th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : F. B LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.

3039 May 17, 1905.

WHEREAS , The Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, in the State of
Wyoming, was established by proclamation dated May twenty-second, The Medicine Bow nineteen hundred and two, under and by virtue of section twenty-four Colo. and Wyo.
Preamble. of the Act of Congress, approved March third , eighteen hundred and Vol. 32, pp. 2003, ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for 20V1o5l.. 26, p. 1103. other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the United Post, p. 3303.
States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or
Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the
public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth,
whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the
President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof "

And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " the President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ; under which provision the boundary lines of the said forest reserve were changed and enlarged by proclamation dated July sixteenth, nineteen hundred and two ;

Vol. 30, p. 36. Vol. 32, p. 2015.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by including within the said forest reserve certain additional lands in the State of Colorado which are in part covered with timber ;
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the aforesaid Medicine Bow Forest Reserve are hereby further modified so as to read, as follows :

Area enlarged.

Beginning at the north- west corner of Township seventeen ( 17) North, Range eighty-one ( 81 ) West, Sixth ( 6th ) Principal Meridian , Wyoming; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty ( 30) , Township seventeen (17) North, Range eighty ( 80) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Township seventeen ( 17 ) North, Range seventy-nine (79 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five (5) , Township seventeen ( 17)

Description.

North, Range seventy-eight ( 78 ) West ; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Fourth (4th) Standard Parallel North, to the south-east corner of Section thirtytwo ( 32) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) North, Range seventy-eight (78) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section four (4), Township thirteen (13 ) North, Range seventy-seven (77) West ; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Third (3rd ) Standard Parallel North, to the point of intersection with the boundary line between the States of Wyoming and Colo-

rado ; thence westerly along said state boundary line to the point of intersection with the range line between Ranges seventy-seven ( 77)

3040

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ForMeesdtiRceisneervBeo-w and seventy-eight ( 78 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-west cor-

Continued.

her of Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range seventy-seven (77) West ;

Sixth (6th ) Principal Meridian , Colorado ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east

corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east cor-

ner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east

corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-west corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six (6 ) , Township

ten ( 10) North, Range seventy-six (76) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section seventeen (17) , said township ;

thence easterly to the nor h-west corner of Section twenty-three ( 23) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- one ( 31) ,

Township eleven ( 11) North, Range seventy- five ( 75 ) West ; thence

northerly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to

the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to

the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township ten ( 10) North,

Range seventy- four (74 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east

corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Sec-

tion nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner

of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -west cor-

ner of Section twenty-five (25) , said township ; thence easterly to the

south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township nine ( 9) North, Range seventy-

three ( 73 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

eight (8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of

Section thirty-three ( 33) , said township ; thence easterly along the

Second ( 2nd) Correction Line North to the north-west corner of Sec-

tion one ( 1 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range seventy-two (72)

West ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of the north-east quarter of Section two (2) , Township seven (7) North, Range seventy-two (72 ) West ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence

westerly to the north-west corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section

twenty-six ( 26) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of Section eleven ( 11) , Township six (6) North, Range

seventy-two ( 72) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of

Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of Section twenty- nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the south -west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the north-west corner of Se on two (2 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ; thence southerly to the

south- east corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence westerly

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3041

to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; FoMreesdtiRceisneervBeo-w thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset Continued. on the First ( 1st ) Correction Line North, to the south-west corner of Section six (6 ) , Township four (4) North, Range seventy-three ( 73) West ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Township two ( 2) North, Range seventy-three (73) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section eight ( 8) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range seventyfour (74 ) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty (30) , Township two (2 ) North, Range seventy-four (74 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , Township two (2 ) North, Range seventy-five (75) West ; thence northerly to the north-
east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section seven (7 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range seventy-five (75) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the south-east quarter of Section seven (7 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township four (4) North, Range seventyfive (75 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the southwest quarter of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the First ( 1st ) Correction Line North , to the north- east corner of Section twenty- five (25 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range seventysix (76) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six ( 36) , said township ; thence westerly along the First ( 1st ) Correction Line North to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section two ( 2 ) , Township four (4) North, Range seventy-six ( 76 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south- east quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the south-west quarter of Section two (2 ) , Township three (3 ) North, Range seventy-six ( 76 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-three (23) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range seventy -seven (77) West ; thence
southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ;

3042

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ForMeesdtiRceisneervBeo-w thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence west-

Continued.

erly to the north- west corner of Section twenty ( 20) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32) , said township; thence

westerly to the north -east ,corner of Township two (2 ) North, Range

seventy-eight ( 78) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

Section one (1 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

Section eleven ( 11) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , Township two (2 ) North, Range ,

seventy-nine (79 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west cor-

ner of Section thirty-two (32) , Township three ( 3) North, Range seventy-nine ( 79) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of

Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of

Section twenty- four ( 24) , Township four (4) North, Range eighty (80) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section four-

teen ( 14) , Township four (4) North, Range eighty-one ( 81 ) West ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence northerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset

on the First ( 1st ) Correction Line North, to the north-west corner of

Section twenty-two ( 22) , Township five ( 5) North, Range eighty-one

(81 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thir-

teen ( 13) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section eight

(8 ) , Township five ( 5 ) North, Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; thence north-

erly to the north- west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Township five ( 5 ) North, Range seventy-eight (78 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of Section six (6) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner

of the north-west quarter of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ;

thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north- east quarter of

Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to

the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

the north-west quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of the north - east

quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township five ( 5 ) North, Range seventy-seven ( 77) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of

said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of

Section one (1 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range seventy-eight (78 )

West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north - east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the

north- west quarter of Section twenty-five ( 25) , Township six ( 6 ) North, Range seventy-eight (78 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-

east quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to

the south- east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence north-

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3043

erly to the north-west corner of Township six ( 6 ) North, Range Medicine Bow Forest Reserve-
seventy-seven ( 77) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Continued.
Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east
corner of the north -east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section three (3 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-

fcur ( 34 ) , Township seven (7) North, Range seventy-seven ( 77 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south- east quarter of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the north-east quarter of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three

(3) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range seventy-seven (77) West ; thence easterly along the Second ( 2nd) Correction Line North to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirty- four (34) , Township nine ( 9) North, Range seventy-seven (77) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south -east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south - east corner of Section six ( 6) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , Township ten ( 10) North , Range seventy-eight ( 78) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the south-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six ( 36) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range seventy-nine (79 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , Township twelve (12) North, Range seventy- nine ( 79) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section ten ( 10) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range seventy-nine (79) West ; thence westerly to the north -east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eighty ( 80) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section two (2) , said township ; thence northerly along

the section lines to the point of intersection with the boundary line between the States of Colorado and Wyoming ; thence westerly along said state boundary line to the point of intersection with the range line between Ranges eighty (80) and eighty-one (81 ) West ; thence northerly along said range line, allowing for the proper offset on the

Third (3rd ) Standard Parallel North, to the south - east corner of Township fourteen ( 14 ) North, Range eighty-one ( 81 ) West, Sixth
VOL XXXIV, PT 3--14

3044

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

(6th) Principal Meridian , Wyoming ; thence' westerly to the southwest corner of said township ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Fourth (4th ) Standard Parallel North, to the north-west corner of Township seventeen ( 17 ) North,

Range eighty-one ( 81 ) West, the place of beginning ;

Lands excepted .

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

Reserved from law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 17th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand, nine hundred and five,
[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. T. ROOSEVELT
By the President : F. B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

May 22, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Bitter Root
Forest Reserve, Idaho and Mont.
Preamble. Vol. 29, p. 899 ; Vol. 33. p. 2373. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Whereas, The Bitter Root Forest Reserve, in the States of Idaho and Montana, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-second, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, under and by virtue of section twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal

timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ", which provides, " That

the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart

and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing

forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

Vol. 30, p. 36.

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, ap-

proved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety -eight, and for other purposes ", that " the President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that

Vol. 33, p. 2373.

has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve "; under which provision the boundary lines of the said forest reserve were changed and the area reduced by proclamation dated June fourteenth, nineteen hundred and four ;
And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3045

by further releasing and excluding lands from the said forest reserve, and by including therein additional lands which are in part covered with timber ;
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the aforesaid Bitter Root Forest Reserve are hereby further modified so as to read as follows :
Beginning at the north-east corner of Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range five (5) East, Boise Base and Meridian, Idaho ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Sixth and one-half (61 ) Standard Parallel North, to the north-east corner of Township thirty-one (31 ) North, Range five (5 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirtyone (31 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section three ( 3) , Township thirty ( 30) North, Range four ( 4 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section seven (7 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , Township thirty (30 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Sixth (6th ) Standard Parallel North, to the north-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14) , Township twentynine (29) North, Range three ( 3 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4 ) , Township twenty - eight (28) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34) , Township twenty- six (26) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence westerly, along the Fifth and one-half ( 54 ) Standard Parallel North, to the north-west corner of Township twenty-five (25 ) North, Range two ( 2) East ; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the Salmon
River ; thence in a general easterly direction along the middle of the channel of said river to its intersection with the range line between Ranges eighteen ( 18 ) and nineteen ( 19 ) East ; thence northerly along said range line to its intersection with the boundary line between the States of Idaho and Montana ; thence in a general northeasterly direction along said state boundary line to its intersection with the township line between Townships one ( 1 ) and two (2 ) South, Base and Principal Meridian, Montana ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township one ( 1 ) South, Range nineteen ( 19 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township; thence westerly along the Base Line to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-two (32 ) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) West ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of the north-east quarter of Section five (5 ) , said town-

Area modified. Description.

3046

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estBiRtetseerrvReoo-t CFoonr- ship ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of lot one ( 1 ) of

tind.

Section three ( 3) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range twenty-one ( 21 )

West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south- west

quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the southwest quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west

corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-nine (29) , said

township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east

quarter of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Base Line, to the south- west .

corner of the south-east quarter of Section one ( 1 ) , Township one (1 ) South, Range twenty-two (22 ) West ; thence westerly to the

north-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly

to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter

of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

north-east corner of Section three (3) , Township two ( 2) South, Range twenty-two (22) . West ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of

Section three (3 ) , Township three ( 3) South, Range twenty-two (22) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section nine

(9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section.

four ( 4) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner

of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , Township

two ( 2 ) South, Range twenty-two (22 ) West ; thence westerly to

the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section sixteen (16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east

corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirty-four ( 34 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range twenty-two (22 ) West ; thence northerly

to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section

eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Base Line, to the

north -west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-six (36) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range twenty-two ( 22 ) West ;

thence westerly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly along the Base Line

to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the northwest quarter of Section thirty-four ( 34) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of said

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3047

section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south- west Bitter Root Forest Reserve Con-
quarter of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence northerly tinued. to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township one ( 1) North, Range twenty-one (21 ) West ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section four ( 4) , said township ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the township line, to the north-west corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township two ( 2 ) North, Range twenty-one (21 ) West ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south - west quarter of Section twenty-eight (28) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-seven ( 27) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section : thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of Section fourteer. (14 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the southwest quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -east corner of the south -west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32) , Township three ( 3) North, Range twenty-one ( 21 ) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north - east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township; thence northerly to the north - east corner of the south-east quarter of the north-east quarter of Section . seven (7) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of the north -east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of lot one ( 1 ) of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of lot two ( 2 ) of Section five (5 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , Township four (4) North , Range twenty-one ( 21 ) West; thence westerly to the north- west corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty ( 20) , said township ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence

3048

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estBiRtetseerrvReoot CFoonr-: southerly to the south - west corner of the north -east quarter of said

tinued .

section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south - east

quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly

to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section six ( 6) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-

east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west cor-

ner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the First ( 1st ) Standard Parallel North to the south- east corner of the

south- west quarter of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township five ( 5 ) North, Range twenty-one ( 21 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of the south - east

quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner

of the north-west quarter of Section thirty-three (33) , Township

six ( 6 ) North, Range twenty-one ( 21 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north - east

corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , Town-

ship seven ( 7) North, Range twenty-one (21 ) West ; thence westerly

to the north-west corner of the south -east quarter of said section ;

thence northerly to the north -east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section

twenty (20) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- west corner of Section eight ( 8 ), said township ; thence easterly to the

south-east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner

of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range twenty-one (21 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south- west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north - west

corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly

to the north -east corner of said section ; thence easterly, along the Second ( 2nd ) Standard Parallel North, to the south-east corner of

Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range twenty-one (21 ) West ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of Township ten ( 10 ) North, Range twenty- one (21 ) West; thence westerly along the township line to its intersection with the boundary line between the States of

Montana and Idaho ; thence along said state boundary line to its

intersection with the township line between Townships thirty-eight (38 ) and thirty-nine ( 39 ) North, Boise Base and Meridian, Idaho ;

thence westerly along said township line to the north- west corner of Township thirty- eight (38 ) North. Range ten ( 10) East ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Township thirty-seven (37) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence westerly along the Seventh

(7th) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East, the place of beginning;

such of the above-named corners and other turning points as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be

located at the points where the same would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregu-

larities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ; except-

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905 .

3049

ing and excluding from reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or

parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Idaho and

particularly described as follows :

What will be when

surveyed

Sections one

( 1)

to

eighteen

( 18 ) ,

Lands in exand

Idaho

both inclusive, Township twenty-six (26 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East, Boise Base and Meridian , Idaho ; Sections nineteen ( 19 ) to thirty-

six (36) , both inclusive, Township twenty-seven ( 27) North, Range

six ( 6 ) East ; Sections four ( 4 ) to nine (9 ) , both inclusive, and Sec-

tions sixteen ( 16 ) , seventeen ( 17) and eighteen ( 18 ) , Township twenty-six (26 ) North, Range seven (7) East ; Sections nineteen

( 19 ) , twenty ( 20) and twenty-one (21 ) , and Sections twenty- eight (28) to thirty-three (33) , both inclusive, Township twenty-seven ( 27 ) North, Range seven (7) East ; and all Township twenty- nine ( 29) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any

legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the

proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settle-

ment has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within

which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided,

that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular

tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to

comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was
made. Excluded lands in
The lands in the State of Montana hereby excluded from the Montana restored

reserve and restored to the public domain shall be open to settlement to public domain.

from the date hereof, but shall not be subject to entry, filing or selec-

tion until after ninety days notice by such publication as the Secre-

tary of the Interior may prescribe.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

Reserved settlement.

from

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 22d day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand, nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth .
By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 22, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.
.. WHEREAS, The Yellowstone Forest Reserve, in the States of The Yellowstone Forest Reserve.
Wyoming and Montana, was established by proclamation , dated Janu- wyo.. Mont., and
ary twenty-ninth, one thousand nine hundred and three, under the IdParheoa.mble. provisions of the act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hun- Vol. 26, p. 1565 ;
Vol. 27, P. 989 ; dred and ninety-one, entitled, " An act to repeal timber-culture laws vol . 32, pp. 1999 , and for other purposes ", and the act of Congress, approved June 2006, 2030 ; Vol.
33. p. 2344. fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , " An Act making Post, p. 3291 . appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

3050

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

Vol. 30, p. 36.

fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes " ;
And whereas, it is provided by the aforesaid act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, that The

President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive

order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any

forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or

change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether

any order creating such reserve ", under which provision the bound-

ary lines of the said forest reserve were changed and the area

Vol. 33, p. 2344. thereof reduced by proclamation dated May fourth, nineteen hundred and four ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Idaho, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a reservation ;

Lands in Idaho added to Yellow- Now, therefore , I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

stone serve.

Forest

Re- States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven,

do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved

from entry er settlement, and added to and made a part of the afore-

said Yellowstone Forest Reserve, all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Idaho and

Description .

within the boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the point where the section line between Sections

twenty (20 ) and twenty-nine ( 29 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range forty-six (46 ) East, Boise Base and Meridian, Idaho, intersects the

western boundary of the Yellowstone Forest Reserve ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township three (3) North, Range forty-five (45 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east

corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , Township three (3 ) North, Range forty- four (44 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , Township four (4) North, Range forty-four (44 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township; thence northerly to the north-cast corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtythree (33 ) , Township five ( 5 ) North, Range forty-four (44 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- cast corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north - east

corner of Section nineteen (19) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Township five ( 5 ) Nerth, Range forty-three (43 ) East ; thence westerly along the First ( 1st ) Standard Paralel North to the north-west corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtyTwo (32) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three (3 ) , Township four (4) North, Range forty-three (43 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section cleven (11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Sec-
tion fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence casterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township four (4 ) North , Range forty- four ( 44 ) East ; thence easterly to the

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3051

north-east corner of Section thirty-one (31) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eight (8 ) , Township three (3) North, Range forty- four (44) East ; thence easterly to the
north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirtytwo ( 32) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Township two (2 ) North, Range forty- four (44) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range forty- four (44 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24) , said township ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Base Line, to the south- west corner of Section four (4 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range forty-five (45) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section six (6) , Township two (2 ) South, Range forty-six (46) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eight ( 8) , said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the section lines to the point of intersection with the western boundary of the Yellowstone Forest Reserve ; thence northerly along said boundary to the point of intersection with the section
line between Sections twenty (20) and twenty-nine (29 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North , Rarge forty-six (46 ) East, the place of beginning; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry cr filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- rettlement.
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation..

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 22d day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL.] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth. By the President :

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

3052

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 23, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Henrys Lake Forest Reserve.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Con-

Idaho . Preamble.

gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Vol. 26, p . 1103. entitled , "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur

poses

That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Idaho, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

Forest reserve, and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Idaho .

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and pro-

claim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set

apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels

Description.

of land lying and being situate in the State of Idaho and particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the point where the State Line between the States of Idaho and Montana intersects the western boundary of the Yellowstone National Park ; thence southerly and easterly along the

boundary of said Park to the point of intersection with the State

Line between the States of Idaho and Wyoming ; thence southerly

along said State Line to the south-east corner of Township seven ( 7) North, Range forty-six (46 ) East , Boise Base and Meridian , Idaho ;

thence westerly to the south -west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) ,

Township seven (7 ) North, Range forty-five (45 ) East ; thence

northerly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north- west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said town-

ship ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-three

(33) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range forty-five (45 ) East ; thence

northerly to the south- east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east

quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

the south- east quarter of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north - west quarter of Section six (6), said township ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper

offset on the Second ( 2nd) Standard Parallel North, to the south-

east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , Township nine (9 ) North,

Range forty- four (44 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

south-east corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the south -east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township nine (9 ) North, Range forty-three (43 ) East ; thence westerly to the

north - east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence south-

erly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence north-

erly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence northerly

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

3053

to the south-east corner of Township ten ( 10) North, Range forty- esHtenRersyesrvLeak-e CForn-two ( 42 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said tinued. township ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of Township eleven (11 ) North, Range forty-one ( 41 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north - west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township eleven ( 11) North, Range forty ( 40 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section two (2 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range forty (40 ) East ; thence easterly along the Third ( 3rd ) Standard Parallel North to the north -west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range forty-one (41 ) East ; thence southerly. to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section eight ( 8 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range forty-two (42 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range forty- two (42 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section twenty- five (25 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east
corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south- west corner of the north-
east quarter of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section one (1 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range forty-one (41 ) East ; thence westerly to the north - west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section ten (10) , Township thirteen ( 13) North, Range forty ( 40 ) East ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North , Range thirty-nine (39 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north- east corner of Section twentyfour ( 24 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range thirty-eight ( 38 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty -two (22) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ;

3054

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

esHteRnersyesrvLea-ke CFoorn-- thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Third ( 3rd)

tinued.

Standard Parallel North, to the north- east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) ,

Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range thirty-eight (38) East ; thence

westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner. of Section eighteen ( 18) , Township twelve (12) North, Range thirty-seven (37) East ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of Section thirteen (13) , Township , twelve ( 12 ) North,

Range thirty-six (36 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner

of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range thirty-

five ( 35 ) East ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Third ( 3rd ) Standard Parallel North, to

the State Line between the States of Idaho and Montana ; thence in

a general easterly direction along said State Line to the point of intersection with the western boundary of the Yellowstone National

Park, the place of beginning ; excepting and excluding from reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being

Lands excluded.

situate within the boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) ,
Township sixteen ( 16 ) North, Range forty-three ( 43) East, Boise

Base and Meridian, Idaho ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of

Section thirty-three (33) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) North, Range forty-three (43 ) East ;

thence southerly to the south - east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township four-

feen (14 ) North, Range forty- four (44 ) East ; thence southerly to

the north-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the south- west corner of Section seventeen, said township ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen

(13) , Township fourteen (14 ) North, Range forty-three (43 ) East ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence north-

erly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence north-

erly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , Township fifteen ( 15) North, Range forty-three (43 ) East ; thence westerly to

the south - west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township sixteen ( 16 ) North,

Range forty-three (43 ) East, the place of beginning ; Such of the above-named corners as have not been established by

the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where

such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions in-

Lands excepted.

dicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entrymen, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3055

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Henrys Lake Forest Reserve.

Reserved settlement.
Name..

from

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 23d day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the
[SEAL. ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. T. ROOSEVELT
By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS .

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

May 25, 1905.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Con- The Weiser Forest Reserve, Idaho.
gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, enti- Preamble. tled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", Vol. 26, p. 1103.
Post, pp. 3199, " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set 3294.
apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered

with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Idaho, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ; Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt," President of the United Forest Idaho.
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of
the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim
that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart
as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of
land lying and being situate in the State of Idaho. and within the

reserve,

boundaries particularly described as follows :

Beginning at the north- west corner of Township eighteen ( 18 ) Description. North, Range one (1 ) East, Boise Base and Meridian, Idaho ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east. corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township eighteen ( 18 ) North, Range two (2 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly along the Fourth (4th ) Standard Parallel North to the

north- east corner of Section five (5 ) , Township seventeen ( 17 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

3056

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

seWrevies-erCoFnotriensutedR.e- said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the northwest quarter of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north -west corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27) , said

township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said

E

township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ;

a

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township sixteen ( 16 )

!

North, Range two (2 ) East ; thence southerly to the north-east corner

of Section thirty- six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south - west

corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Section six (6 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) ,



said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section

thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north -east corner

of Section thirty-six (36) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) North, Range two

( 2 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ;

#

thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner

9

of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner

*

of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence easterly along

the Third ( 3rd ) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of

Section four (4 ) , Township thirteen (13 ) North, Range three (3 )

Ta

East ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen

(15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section fourteen (14 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence

westerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence south-

erly to the south- east corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , Township

eleven ( 11 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of Section thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

north-west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range two (2) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of

Section three ( 3) , Township ten ( 10 ) North, Range two ( 2) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twentythree (23 ) , said township; thence easterly to the south-east corner

of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3057

Weiser Forest Recorner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence easterly serve Continued. to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township ten ( 10) North, Range three ( 3 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four ( 4) , said township ; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Second ( 2nd) Standard Parallel North , to
the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township nine (9) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner. of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range two (2 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly along the Second (2nd ) Standard Parallel North to the south-west corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , Township ten ( 10) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;
thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34) , Township twelve (12 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four (34) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence northerly along the sectio.n lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Third (3rd) Standard Parallel North, to the south-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Township sixteen ( 16 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Fourth (4th ) Standard Par-
allel North, to the north-west corner of Township eighteen ( 18 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted. which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set- settlement.

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

3058 Name.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Weiser Forest Reserv.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . sh
Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of May, in the year el of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

to

and twenty-ninth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

FRANCIS B LOOMIS

N

3 Acting Secretary of State.
20

May 29, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Sawtooth

40

Forest Reserve, WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty - four of the Act of Con-

Idaho . Preamble.

gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, enti-

Vol. 26, p. 1103. tled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ",

Post, p. 3260. " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered

with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

I

public reservations, and the President shall , by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Idaho , within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

Forest reserve, reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Idaho.

Now, therefore , I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

14.

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Idaho, and within the

Description.

boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-west corner of Section three (3 ) , Township

thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East, Boise Base and Meridian,

Idaho ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four (4) ,

Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township twelve

(12) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Section twenty- four (24) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North,

Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty (30 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six

(36) , said township; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Township twelve (12) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence southerly to the south - west

corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to

the north-east corner of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , Township eleven

(11 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-

west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , Township ten ( 10) North, Range

twelve ( 12 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3059

twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west Sawtooth Forest Reserve - Contin-
corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence easterly to ued. the north-east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty ( 30) , Township ten ( 10) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four (34) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three ( 3) , Township nine (9 ) North , Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirtyfive (35) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14) East ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtytwo (32) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , Township seven (7) North, Range fourteen ( 14) East ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section twenty-nine (29) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-one (31) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of Township seven (7) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence westerly to the north -west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township six (6) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eleven (11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty- three (23 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty (30 ) , Township six ( 6 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township six ( 6) North, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the First ( 1st) Standard Parallel North, to the south-west corner of Section fifteen (15) , Township four (4 ) North, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four (34) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township three ( 3 ) North, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township three (3 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the south-west quarter of Section eleven (11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section seven (7) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the northwest quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of Section one ( 1 ) , Township three (3 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west
VOL XXXIV, PT 3-15

3060

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReSsaewrtvoeot-h CoFnorteisnt- corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township four (4 ) North, Range

ued.

ten ( 10 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section

twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west

corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) , said township ; thence northerly to

the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south -east

corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west

corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-east corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence westerly

to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

north- west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence south-

erly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the

north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-

three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner

of Section nine ( 9 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ;

thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-

two (32) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of

Township three ( 3 ) North, Range seven ( 7) East ; thence northerly

to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four (24) , Township three

(3) North, Range six (6 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west cor-

ner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of Section seven ( 7) , said township ; thence east-

erly to the south-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence northerly, to the north- west corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , Town-

ship four (4 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence north-

erly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said town-

ship ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of Section twenty- four

(24) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of

Section nineteen ( 19) , Township four (4 ) North, Range seven ( 7)

East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section eighteen

( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of

Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section eight (8 ) , said township ; thence northerly to

the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township four ( 4)

North, Range six (6) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner

t of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence westerly

to the north-west corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section

thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner

of Section twenty-five ( 25) , Township four ( 4 ) North, Range five (5)

East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty-six

(36 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Sec-

tion thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township

five ( 5 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Township five (5) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of Township six (6 ) North, Range six

(6 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township seven (7) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence northerly to the south -east corner

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3061

of Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence westerly Sawtooth Forest
Reserve Continto the south-west corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; ued.

thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the

north-east corner of Section twenty- five ( 25) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section

twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - east

corner of the south-west. quarter of Section thirty-four (34) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township

eight (8) North, Range four (4) East ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen (15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of the south- west quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south - east corner of the north-east quarter

of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section

one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of

Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range four (4) East ; thence northerly to

the north-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section thirty-six ( 36) , Township ten ( 10) North, Range four (4) East ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of

Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east

corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-

east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-nine (29) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said

section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east

quarter of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30 ) , Township eleven ( 11)

North, Range four ( 4 ) East ; thence easterly to the south- east corner

of Section twenty ( 20) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence east-

erly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence easterly

to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

south-west corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) North , Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty

(30) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said

section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section sixteen

( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three

(3) , said township, the place of beginning ; such of the above- named

corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in

projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

3062

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

Reserved settlement.
Name.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this
exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Sawtooth Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 29th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

 BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. !

June 2 , 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

Game preserve, Wichita Forest Re-

WHEREAS , it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved Jan-

serve, Okla. Preamble. Vol. 33, p. 614.

nary twenty- fourth, nineteen hundred and five, entitled, " An Act for the protection of wild animals and birds in the Wichita Forest Re-

Post, p. 3207. serve ", That the President of the United States is hereby authorized

to designate such areas in the Wichita Forest Reserve as should, in his Vol. 32, p. 1973. opinion, be set aside for the protection of game animals and birds and

be recognized as a breeding place therefor.

" SEC. 2. That when such areas have been designated as provided

for in section one of this Act, hunting, trapping, killing, or capturing of game animals and birds upon the lands of the United States within

the limits of said areas shall be unlawful, except under such regula-

tions as may be prescribed from time to time, by the Secretary of

Agriculture ; and any person- violating such regulations or the provisions of this Act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall,

upon conviction in any United States court of competent jurisdiction,

be fined in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars or be imprisoned for a period not exceeding one year, or shall suffer both fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.

" SEC. 3. That it is the purpose of this Act to protect from trespass the public lands of the United States and the game animals and birds which may be thereon, and not to interfere with the operation of the

local game laws as affecting private, State, or Territorial lands " ; And whereas, for the purpose of giving this Act effect, it appears
desirable that the entire Wichita Forest Reserve be declared a Game
Preserve ;

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid Act of
-Wichita Reserve , OklaFo. ,ressett Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that the Wichita apart as game Forest Reserve, in the Territory of Oklahoma, is designated and set preserve.
aside for the protection of game animals and birds, and shall be rec-

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3063

ognized as a breeding place therefor, and that the hunting, trapping, killing or capturing of game animals and birds upon the lands of the

United States within the limits of said area is unlawful, except under

such regulations as may be prescribed from time to time by the Secretary of Agriculture.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2nd day of June, in the year

of our Lord' one thousand nine hundred and five, and of [SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred.

and twenty-ninth..

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

L

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

June 2, 1905.

WHEREAS, it

is provided by section

twenty- four of the Act of Con-

The Lassen Peak Forest Reserve,

gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, enti- CaPlr. eamble. tled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", Vol. 26, p. 1103.

" That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered

with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of California , within

the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve,

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United California.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of California , and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :

Beginning at the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township Description.

thirty-five (35 ) North, Range four (4) East, Mount Diablo Base and

Meridian, California ; thence easterly along the Seventh ( 7th ) Stand-

ard Parallel North to the north-east corner of said township ; thence

southerly to the north-west corner of fractional Township thirty-five

(35 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence easterly along the Seventh

(7th) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of Township

thirty-five (35 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18) , Township thirty-five (35 )

North, Range seven ( 7) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east

corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence southerly

to the north-west corner of Section thirty- five (35 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence south-

erly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the

3064

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estLaRsesseenrvPeea-k CFoonr- north-east corner of Township thirty- four ( 34 ) North, Range seveñ

tinued.

(7) East ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-

six (36) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of

said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township thirty-three (33 )

North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence southerly along the range line to

the shore line of Eagle Lake, in Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said town-

ship ; thence in a general south-easterly and south -westerly direction

along the shore line of Eagle Lake to the township line between

Townships thirty-one (31 ) and thirty-two (32 ) North, Range ten

(10) East ; thence westerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-

six (36 ) , Township thirty-two ( 32 ) North, Range nine ( 9) East ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-

east corner of Township thirty-one ( 31 ) North, Range eight ( 8 )

East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five

(25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of said

section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) ,

said township; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said sec-

tion ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence north-

erly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section seven ( 7) , said township ; thence south-

erly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township; thence easterly along the Sixth (6th ) Standard Parallel North

to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , Township thirty ( 30)

North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east cor-

ner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said

section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section seven

(7) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said

section ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section nineteen

(19) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section

fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section twelve

(12), said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of

said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section seven

(7) , Township thirty ( 30 ) ; North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north - east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to

the north-east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-six ( 26) ,

said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section;

thence southerly to the south - east corner of Section two (2 ) , Town-

ship twenty-nine ( 29 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence westerly

to the north-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said.

township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirt-

een ( 13 ) , Township twenty-nine ( 29 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , Town-

ship twenty-nine ( 29 ) North, Range seven (7 ) East ; thence southerly

to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-

east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , Township twenty-nine ( 29 )

North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section

thirty ( 30) , Township twenty-nine (29) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ;

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3065

thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , Lassen Peak Forest Reserve Con-
Township twenty-nine (29 ) North, Range four (4) East ; thence tinued. westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of fractional Township twenty-eight (28) North, Range four (4) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty- five (25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25) , Township twenty-eight (28 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty- six (26 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the north -west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence northerly allowing for the proper offset on the township line, to the north-west corner of Section thirtythree (33 ) , Township twenty-nine ( 29) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section three (3 ) , Township thirty ( 30) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence easterly along the Sixth (6th ) Standard Parallel North to the south -west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , Township thirty-one ( 31 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township thirty-two (32 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) East ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , Township thirty-two ( 32 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Township thirty-three ( 33 ) , North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north - west corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township thirty- four ( 34) North, Range three ( 3 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section six (6 ) , Township thirty-four (34 ) North , Range four (4) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section; thence easterly to the south - west corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township thirty-five (35 ) North, Range four (4) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty -one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not
been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted. which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

3066

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

Reserved settlement.
Name.

from

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Lassen Peak Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the

[SEAL. ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty- ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President :

FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

June 2, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Maury Mountain Forest Re- WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

serve, Oreg. Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur-

Post, p. 3302.

poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Oregon, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Oregon.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty - four

of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and

set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or

parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Oregon, and particularly described as follows :

Description.

In Township eighteen ( 18 ) South, Range eighteen ( 18 ) East, Sec-

tions one ( 1 ) two (2 ) , three ( 3 ) , four ( 4) , and Sections nine ( 9) to

fifteen ( 15) oth inclusive ;

In Township seventeen ( 17 ) South, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East , Sections wenty-three ( 23) to thirty-six ( 36), both inclusive;

In Township eighteen ( 18 ) South, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East, Sections one ( 1 ) to fifteen ( 15 ) , both inclusive, and Sections seven

teen ( 17) , eighteen ( 18 ) , twenty-two ( 22 ) , twenty-three ( 23 ) and twenty-four (24 ) ;

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3067

In Township seventeen ( 17 ) South, Range twenty ( 20 ) East, Sec-

tions nineteen ( 19) to thirty-six ( 36 ) , both inclusive ; In Township eighteen ( 18 ) South, Range twenty (20) East, Sec-
tions one ( 1 ) to twelve ( 12 ) , both inclusive ; In Township seventeen ( 17 ) South, Range twenty-one (21 ) East,

Sections nineteen ( 19 ) , twenty-nine ( 29 ) , thirty ( 30 ) , thirty-one (31 ) , thirty-two (32 ) and the west half of Section thirty- three (33 ) ;

In Township eighteen ( 18 ) South, Range twenty-one (21 ) East , the west half of Section four (4) , Sections five (5 ) , six ( 6 ) , seven

( 7 ) , eight ( 8 ) and the west half of Section nine ( 9 ) ; all of Willamette Meridian, Oregon ;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted. which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided , that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all

persons flot to make set-

Reserved settlement.

from

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Maury Name. Mountain Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[SEAL. ]

the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth.
T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

June 3, 1905 .

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

it is provided by section

twenty- four

of the

Act

of Con-

The Payette For: est Reserve, Idaho.

gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, enti99- Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103. tled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes 66

That the President of the United States may, from time to time,

set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public' proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Idaho, within the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Now,

therefore ,

I.

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of

the

United

.

Forest Idaho .

reserve,

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

3068 Description.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.
the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Idaho, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north -west corner of Township twenty-three ( 23 ) North, Range four ( 4 ) East, Boise Base and Meridian, Idaho ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Township twenty-three (23 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of Township twenty-two ( 22 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Fifth ( 5th ) Standard Parallel North, to the south- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township twenty (20) North, Range two (2 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , Township nineteen ( 19 ) North, Range two (2) East ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township nineteen ( 19 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , Township twenty ( 20 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twentythree (23 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence southerly, to the south- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township nineteen ( 19 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township , thence easterly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Township nineteen ( 19 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section five (5), Township eighteen ( 18 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twentyone ( 21 ), said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , said township ; thence westerly along the Fourth ( 4th ) Standard Parallel North, to the north-west corner of the north- east quarter of Section five ( 5 ) , Township seventeen (17) North, Range four (4) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of Section eight (8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section fifteen (15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Secfion twenty-two., (22) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said township : thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township sixteen ( 16 ) North, Range four ( 4 ) East ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of said section; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12) , said township; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said township: thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section one ( 1 ) ,

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3069

Payette Forest Township fifteen ( 15 ) North, Range four ( 4 ) East ; thence southerly Reserve Contin-
to the south-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; ued.

thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west

corner of Section five (5 ) , Township fourteen ( 14) North, Range

four (4) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the south- west corner of Section nine (9 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-one

(21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of

said section ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section

twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south - west

corner of Section twelve ; said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

of Township fourteen ( 14 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) . said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said

section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty

(20 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of

Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the Third (3rd ) Standard Parallel North to the south- east corner of Sec-

tion thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township fourteen ( 14) North, Range seven

(7) East ; thence northerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Fourth (4th ) Standard Parallel North, to the

north-east corner of Section four (4 ) , Township eighteen ( 18 ) North,

Range seven ( 7) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of

Township nineteen (19 ) North, Range seven ( 7) East ; thence

northerly to the north - east corner of Township nineteen ( 19) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Sec-

tion thirty- four ( 34) , Township twenty ( 20 ) North, Range six (6 )

East ; thence northerly along the section lines to the point of intersection with the Fifth (5th) Standard Parallel North ; thence

easterly along said parallel to its intersection with the Middle Fork of

the Salmon River ; thence in a general north- easterly direction along the middle of the channel of said Middle Fork of the Salmon River

to its confluence with said river ; thence in a general north-westerly

direction along the middle of the channel of said river to its inter-

section with the range line between ' Ranges six ( 6 ) and seven ( 7 )

East ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Township twentyfour ( 24 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of Township twenty-three ( 23 ) North, Range four (4). East, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as

have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be

located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the

surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or selection was made.

3070

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

Reserved settlement.
Name.

from Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Payette Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the

[ SEAL. ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and

twenty - ninth .

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

June 3, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The San Juan WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

FCoolro.est Reserve, Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety - one,

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

Post, p. 3308. poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ":

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado, within the

Forest Colorado.

reserve,

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within the

boundaries particularly described as follows :

Description .

Beginning at the north-west corner of Township forty-two (42) North, Range three (3 ) West, New Mexico Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east
corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Section thirty-four (34) , said township ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Township forty- one (41 ) North, Range three (3 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence easterly along the Tenth (10th) Correction Line North to the north-east corner of Township forty

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3071

(40) North, Range three (3 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-west San Juan Forest . Reserve - Contin-
corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township forty (40) North, Range two ued. (2 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen (17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north - west quarter of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty- six ( 26 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section twenty- nine ( 29) , Township forty (40 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence north erly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Tenth ( 10th) Correction Line North, to the north-west corner of Section thirty- three ( 33 ) . Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section seventeen ,( 17 ) , Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section sixteen ( 16) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east · corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Sec tion twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Tenth ( 10th) Correction Line North, to the north-west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , Township forty ( 40 ) North, Range one (1 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the north. west quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence easterly to , the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of said section; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township forty (40 ) North, Range two ( 2) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6) , Township thirtynine ( 39 ) . North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner
of the north-west quarter of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the southwest quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the

3072

· PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

ReSsaenrvJeuanCFoonrteins-t north- west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence

ued.

easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to

the north-west corner of Section one (1 ) , said township ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , Township thirtynine ( 39 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east

corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Sec-

tion fourteen ( 14), said township ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence westerly to

the north-west corner of Section two (2) , Township thirty-eight (38 )

North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west cor-

ner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) North,

Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

Section four (4) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west

corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Town-

ship thirty-nine (39 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence northerly

to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27) ,

said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-six

(26 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Sec-

tion thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west

corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) North, Range

five (5 ) East ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section

twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east

corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

+

Section four (4 ) , Township thirty-seven (37 ) North, Range six ( 6 )

East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section ten ( 10) ,

said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section

thirteen (13 ), said township ; thence southerly to the south- east cor-

ner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

south- west corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- seven ( 27 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33) ,

said township ; thence westerly along the Ninth (9th ) Correction

Line North to the north-west corner of Township thirty-six ( 36 )

North, Range six (6 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner

of Section seven (7 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east

corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five (25) ,

Township thirty- six (36 ) North, Range five (5 ) East ; thence west-

erly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said town-

ship ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the

north- east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east

corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) ,

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3073

Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North, Range five ( 5) East ; thence west- San Juan Forest Reserve - Contin-
erly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the ued. south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north- west quarter of Section seven ( 7) , said township ; thence southerly to the
north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to

the north- west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , Township thirtyfour ( 34) North, Range five ( 5) East ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , Township thirty-three ( 33 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence westerly along the Eighth ( 8th) Correction Line North to its intersection with the eastern boundary of the Tierra Amarilla Grant ; thence in a north-westerly and south-westerly direction along said boundary to its intersection with the quarter- section line between the north-half and the south-half of Section nineteen

( 19 ) , Township thirty- four ( 34 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , Township thirty- four ( 34 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-six (26) , Township thirty-three (33 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six (6) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtyfour ( 34 ) , Township thirty- four ( 34 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , Township thirty-four ( 34 ) North, Range two (2 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty (20 ) , Township thirty-five (35 ) North, Range two (2) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south - west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north - east quarter of Section thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , Township thirty-five (35 ) North , Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section thirty- four (34) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one (21) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section six (6) , said township ; thence northerly

3074

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

ReSsaenrvJeua-nCFoonrteisn-t along the New Mexico Principal Meridian to the south-east corner of

ued.

Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence west-

erly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section fourteen

( 14) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said..

section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section four (4) ,

said township ; thence westerly along the Ninth (9th ) Correction Line North to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Sec-

tion thirty-four (34) , Township thirty-seven ( 37 ) North, Range one

(1) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north - west

quarter of Section twenty -seven ( 27) , said township ; thence westerly

to the north- west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-

eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner

of the south- east quarter of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ;

thence easterly along the Ninth ( 9th ) Correction Line North to the

north-east corner of Section six (6 ) , Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of said

section ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) ,

Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) West ; thence south-

erly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of

said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-

east quarter of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said sec-

tion ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section eighteen

(18), said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the

south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to

the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of the north-east quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , frac-

tional Township thirty-six ( 36) North, Range two and one-half ( 21 )

West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north- west

quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of fractional

Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of fractional Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence easterly

along the Ninth (9th ) Correction Line North to the south-east cor-

ner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township thirty-seven (37 ) North,

Range two (2 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of

said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) ,

Township thirty- seven (37 ) North, Range three (3) West ; thence

westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to

the north-east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ;

thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of

said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-

west quarter of said section ; thence westerly along the Ninth ( 9th )

Correction Line North to the north-west corner of Section four (4) ,

Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range three (3 ) West ; thence

southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three

(3) , Township thirty-five (35 ) North, Range three (3 ) West ; thence

southerly to the south- west corner of the north- west quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3075

corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said town- San Juan Forest Reserve --Contin-
ship ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- ued. five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four (34) , said township ; thence northerly to north-east corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section thirtytwo ( 32) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-one, ( 31 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section thirtytwo ( 32 ) , Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North, Range four (4) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , Township thirty-five (35 ) North , Range five (5 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence northerly to north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range seven ( 7 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the northeast quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Ninth (9th) Correction Line North, to the north-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , Township thirty-seven (37) North, Range seven (7) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18) , Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) North, Range seven (7) West ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township thirty-nine ( 39 ) North, Range seven (7) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township thirty-nine ( 39 ) North, Range six (6 ) West ; thence easterly to the south - east corner of Section thirty - three ( 3 ) , Township forty (40) North, Range six (6 ) West ; thence northerly along the section lines to the point of intersection with the Tenth ( 10th) Correction Line North ; thence easterly along said Correction Line to the south-east corner of Township forty- one ( 41 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north - west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of Section thirty- four (34) , Township forty-two (42) North, Range five ( 5 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east cor-
VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -16

3076

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section

twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east

corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of

Section twenty-one (21 ) , Township forty-two (42 ) North, Range

four (4 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said town-

ship ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north- west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said town-

ship ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township

forty- two (42) North, Range three ( 3 ) West, the place of beginning; Lands excepted . Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided , that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

Reserved settlement.
Name.

from

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The San Juan

Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of June, in the year

of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

June 5 , 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Battlement Mesa Forest Reserve.

WHEREAS, the Battlement Mesa Forest Reserve, in the State of

Colo. Preamble.

Colorado, was established by proclamation dated December twenty-

Vol. 27, 1053 ; fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-two, under and by virtue of

Vol. 33, p. 2359. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

section twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third,

eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-

culture laws, and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the

President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and

reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests,

in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber

or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public res-

ervations, and the President shall , by public proclamation , declare

the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, ap-

proved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred

and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " the President is

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3077

hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ", under which provision the boundary lines of the said forest. reserve were changed and the area thereof reduced by proclamation dated May sixteenth, nineteen hundred and four ;
And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by further releasing and excluding lands from the said forest reserve,

Vol . 33, p. 2359.

and by including therein additional lands which are in part covered with timber ;

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Boundaries modified .

States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of

Congress approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven,

do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the

aforesaid Battlement Mesa Forest Reserve are hereby further modified so as to read as follows :

Beginning at the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township Description. nine (9 ) South, Range ninety-seven ( 97 ) West, Sixth ( 6th ) Principal . Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range ninety- six (96 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range

ninety-five (95 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township seven (7 ) South, Range ninety-five ( 95 ) West ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , Township seven (7) South, Range ninety-four ( 94 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , Township seven (7) South, Range ninety-three (93 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section three ( 3) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range ninety-three ( 93 ) West ; thence

southerly to the north- west corner of Section fourteen (14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thir-

teen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen (18) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range ninety-

two ( 92) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township eight (8 ) South, Range ninety -one ( 91 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) ,

said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range ninety ( 90) West ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Township nine ( 9) South, Range

eighty-nine ( 89 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Second ( 2nd) Correction Line South, to the south- east corner of Township twelve ( 12) South, Range eighty-nine (89) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range ninety-three ( 93 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-four (24 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South,

Range ninety- four (94) West ; thence westerly to the north - east corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range ninety-five (95 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the northeast quarter of Section ten ( 10) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South,

3078

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ForBeastttlemReensterMvees-a Range ninety-five ( 95 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west

Continued.

corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to

the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ;

thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-

three (33) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range ninety-seven (97 )

West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-two

(32) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range ninety-seven (97) West ;

thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the south-west corner of Township eleven ( 11 )

South, Range ninety- six ( 96 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence easterly

to the south- east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the Second (2nd ) Correction Line South

to the south-east corner of Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range ninety-

five (95 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section

thirty-one (31 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range ninety- four ( 94) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- eight

( 28 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly

to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township ten ( 10) South, Range ninety-three (93 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to

the north-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence east-

erly to the south-east corner of Township nine (9 ) South, Range ninety-three ( 93 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said

township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Township nine (9) South, Range ninety-five ( 95) West ; thence southerly to the

south - east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen (19 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-

four (24) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range ninety- six ( 96 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township nine

( 9) South, Range ninety- seven ( 97) West ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Section three ( 3), said town-

ship, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as

have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be

located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the

Lands excepted .

surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Prorided, that this-

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Excluded lands restored to public

The lands hereby excluded from the reserve and restored to the

domain.

public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but

shall not be subject to entry, filing or selection until after ninety days

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3079

notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Reserved settlement.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of the

[SEAL. ]

Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth.
T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

June 12, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Park Range For- est Reserve, Colo. Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, Preamble.

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

Vol. 26, p. 1103. Post, p. 3285.

poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it
appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and
reserving said lands as a public reservation ; Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Forest reserve, Colorado .
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of
the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart
as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :

Beginning at the north-west corner of Section four (4) , Township Description.

eleven ( 11 ) North, Range ninety (90) West, Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Sec-

tion six ( 6 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eighty-nine ( 89 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north- east corner of Section eight (8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section

thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to

the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of Section thirty-three (33) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eighty-seven ( 87) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence west-

erly to the south-east corner of Section thirty (30) , said township ;

thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-

east quarter of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , Township eleven ( 11 )

3080

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

estPaRreskerRvaenge CFoonr- North, Range eighty-eight ( 88 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-

tinued .

west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly

to the south- west corner of Section nineteen (19) , said township;

thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13) ,

Township eleven ( 11 ) North , Range eighty-nine ( 89 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to

the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section fourteen

( 14 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the

north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west

corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Sec-

tion six (6 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eighty-eight ( 88 )

West ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) ,

Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eighty-seven ( 87 ) West ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said town-

ship ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south- west

quarter of Section twenty-four ( 24) , said township ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of Section nineteen

( 19) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eighty-six ( 86 ) West ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south -east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east

quarter of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of Section two (2 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six (6 ) , Township eleven ( 11 )

North, Range eighty-five ( 85 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence easterly

to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three (23) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence east-

erly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the

south-east corner of Section two ( 2) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of the south-east quarter of Section thirty- three (33 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range eighty-five (85 ) West ; thence northerly

to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-

eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

the south- east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the southeast corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north- west

quarter of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence northerly to

the boundary line between the States of Colorado and Wyoming ; thence easterly along said state boundary line to its intersection with

the range line between Ranges eighty- four ( 84 ) and eighty-five ( 85 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south- west

quarter of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range eighty-four ( 84) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the

south- east quarter of Section twenty (20 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , Township twelve

( 12 ) North, Range eighty-three ( 83 ) West ; thence northerly to the

boundary line between the States of Colorado and Wyoming; thence

easterly along said state boundary line to its intersection with the sec-

tion line between Sections twenty-two (22 ) and twenty- three (23 ) ,

Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range eighty-two ( 82 ) West : thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty- six ( 26 ) , said

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3081

township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty- Park Range Forest Reserve- Con-
six (36) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of tinued.
Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eightytwo ( 82 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence southerly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township nine ( 9 ) North , Range eighty-two (82 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly along the Second (2nd) Correction Line North to the north- east corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Township eight (8 ) North, Range eighty-two (82 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section ten ( 10) , Township seven (7) North, Range eighty-two ( 82 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township six ( 6 ) North, Range eighty-two (82 ) West ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of the north- west quarter of Section one ( 1 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range eightytwo (82 ) West ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of the southwest quarter of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-four (34) , said township ; thence easterly along the First (1st ) Correction Line North to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section three (3 ) , Township four ( 4 ) North, Range eighty-two ( 82 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section ten ( 10) , Township two ( 2) North, Range eighty-two (82 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the north-west quar- . ter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirtyfive ( 35 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township two ( 2 ) North, Range eighty-three ( 83 ) West ; thence northerly along the section lines to the point of intersection with the First ( 1st ) Correction Line North ; thence westerly along said Correction Line to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township five ( 5 ) North, Range eighty- four ( 84) West ; thence northerly to the south - east corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , Township six (6) North, Range eighty- four (84 ) West ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of Section three ( 3) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirtyfive (35) . Township seven (7) North, Range eighty- four ( 84 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seven ( 7) , said township ;

3082

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estPaRrekseRrvaeng-eCoFnor- thence northerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset

tinued.

on the Second ( 2nd) Correction Line North to the north-east corner

of Township nine (9 ) North, Range eighty-five (85 ) West ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , Town-

ship ten ( 10 ) North, Range eighty-five ( 85 ) West ; thence northerly to the south - east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ;

thence westerly to the north -east corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirtyone (31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of

Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range eighty-six ( 86 ) West ; thence south-

erly to the south- east corner of the north- east quarter of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west cor-

ner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east

corner of Section thirty- four (34) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of Section

thirty- three (33 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty (30) , said township ; thence southerly along the range

line, allowing for the proper offset on the Second (2nd) Correction Line North, to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Town-

ship seven (7 ) North, Range eighty- seven (87 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section seventeen

(17) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of

the north-west quarter of Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence

easterly to the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section ten ( 10) ,

Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range eighty- seven ( 87 ) West ; thence

easterly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of said sec-

tion ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Second

(2nd) Correction Line North, to the north-west corner of the north-

east quarter of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , Township nine (9 ) North , Range eighty-seven (87) West ; thence westerly to the south- west cor-

ner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

south- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of the south-east quarter of

Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) North, Range eightyseven (87 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the

south- east quarter of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township : thence northerly to the north- west

corner of the north- east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section : thence

southerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence westerly to

the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-one

(21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township nine (9) North, Range eighty-seven ( 87) West ; thence sontherly to the

south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west

corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of Section twelve (12 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range eighty-eight (88 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west cor-

ner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3083

corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twelve ( 12) , Township nine (9 )

North, Range eighty-nine ( 89 ) West ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of section 'seven ( 7 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , Township eleven (11 ) North, Range ninety ( 90 ) West ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township , the place of beginning ;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

Lands excepted.

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this ex-

ception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made."

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

Reserved settlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.-

The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Park Name.

Range Forest Reserve.

from

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

June 12, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

The San Isabel WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Forest Reserve,
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, CoPlroe. amble. entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur- Vol. 26, p. 1103.
poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " :
And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, ap-

Vol. 30, p. 36.

proved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Gov-

ernment for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred

3084

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that

has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary

lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado , within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

Area extended.

reserving said lands as a public reservation ; Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Vol. 32, p. 1988.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid acts of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that The San Isabel Forest Reserve, in the State of Colorado, established by proclamation

of April eleventh, nineteen hundred and two, is hereby so changed

and enlarged as to include all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels

Description.

of land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north-west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) , Township forty- nine ( 49 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East, New Mexico Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , Township forty- nine (49 ) North, Range nine (9 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of

Section twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence

southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Twelfth ( 12th ) Correction Line North, to the south- west corner of Section one ( 1 ) ,

Township forty-eight (48 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence easterly to the north- west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , Township forty-

eight (48 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of said sec-

tion ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the north- west quarter of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

north-east corner of the south -east quarter of said section ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south -west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Town-

ship forty-seven (47) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve (12) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section seventeen

(17) , Township forty-seven (47 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section

twenty-four (24 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said

section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty

(30) , Township forty-seven (47) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of the north-west quarter

of Section four (4) , Township forty-six (46 ) North, Range twelve

(12 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south-east

quarter of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence easterly to the

south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-

west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section two (2 ) , Township forty- five (45)

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905 .

3085

North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East ; thence southerly to the south - west San Isabel Forest Reserve - Contin-
corner of fractional Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence east- ued. erly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of Section thirty ( 30 ) , Township twenty- two (22 ) South, Range seventy-three (73 ) West, Sixth ( 6th ) Principal Meridian ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the south - east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section four (4) , Township twentythree ( 23 ) South, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the southeast quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township twenty- four ( 24 ) South, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Section six ( 6 ) ,. Township twenty- four (24 ) South, Range seventy-two (72 ) West ; thence easterly to the south - east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the northwest quarter of Section twenty ( 20) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-three (33) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Sec-
tion two ( 2 ) , Township twenty-five ( 25 ) South, Range seventy - two (72) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence southerlyto the south-east corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section two (2 ) , Town-
ship twenty-six ( 26 ) South , Range seventy-two ( 72 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section nine ( 9 ) , Township twenty-seven (27 ) South, Range seventy-two (72 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said. township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the north-west quarter of Section thirty-four (34 ) , Township twenty-seven (27 ) South, Range seventyone ( 71 ) West ; thence southerly along the quarter- section lines to the point of intersection with the northern boundary of the Sangre de Christo Grant ; thence in a general south- westerly direction along the boundary of said grant to the point of intersection with the section line between Sections fifteen (15 ) and sixteen ( 16 ) , Township twenty-nine (29 ) South, Range seventy-three (73 ) West ; thence
northerly to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence north-

3086

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReSsaenrIvseab-elCFoonrteisnt- erly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28) , Township

ued.

twenty-eight ( 28 ) South, Range seventy-three ( 73) West; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , Township

twenty-seven ( 27) South, Range seventy-three (73) West ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to

the north-west corner of Section two (2) , said township ; thence east-

erly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township twenty-six (26 ) South, Range seventy- three ( 73 ) West ; thence north-

erly to the south-east corner of Section two (2) , said township ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence north-

erly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of Section thirty-three. (33 ) , Township twenty-five

(25 ) South, Range seventy-three ( 73 ) West ; thence northerly to the

south-east corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly along the section

lines, allowing for the proper offset, to the point of intersection with

the eastern boundary of the Luis Maria Baca Grant Number 4 ;

thence along the eastern and northern boundary of said grant to the

south-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , Township forty-three (43 )

North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East, New Mexico Principal Meridian; thence northerly to the north-east corner of fractional Section six ( 6) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section

thirty-five (35 ) , Township forty-four (44 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 )

East; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- two

(22) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the

south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east

corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to

the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-

east corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence westerly to the

south- west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence

northerly to the north- east corner of the north-west quarter of said

section ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of Section thirty-

three ( 33 ) , Township forty-five (45 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ;

thence northerly to the south -east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-

east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north -east corner

of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the

north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north - east

corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to

the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence

northerly to the south- east corner of the south-west quarter of Section seven (7) , Township forty-six (46 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 )

East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of Section

twelve (12 ) , Township forty-six (46 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of

said section ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of the south-

west quarter of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence westerly to

the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of Section four (4 ) ,

said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said sec-

tion ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south- east quar-

ter of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township forty-seven (47) North,

Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the

north- west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of the south- east quarter of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said

township: thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north- west

quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of

the south-east quarter of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3087

northerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Sec- San Isabel Forest Reserve - Contin-
tion eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west ued. corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township forty-seven (47 ) North, Range nine (9) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of the north-east quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southeast corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township forty-eight (48 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the south -east quarter of Section: thirteen ( 13 ) , Township forty-eight (48 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west

quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twelve ( 12) , said township ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence northerly, allowing for

the proper offset on the Twelfth ( 12th ) Correction Line North, to the north-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township forty -nine (49) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-

eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section

twenty-two (22 ) , said township , the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners

would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

Lands excepted.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry , filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to affixed .

Reserved settlement.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. T. ROOSEVELT
By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

3088 June 12, 1905.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Washington For-
est Reserve, Wash. WHEREAS , The Washington Forest Reserve, in the State of
Preamble. Vol. 29, p. 904 ; Washington, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-

Vol. 32, p . 1969. Vol. 26, p . 1103. Post, p. 3297.

second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, under and by virtue of section twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third ,

eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled " An act to repeal timber-

culture laws, and for other purposes", which provides, " That the

President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and

reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timebr or underkrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reser-

Vol. 30, p. 36. Vol . 32, p. 1969.

vations, and the President shall , by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that "the President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve "; under which provision, the boundary lines of the said forest reserve were changed, and reduced by proclamation dated April third, nineteen hundred and one ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further releasing and excluding certain lands from the said forest

reserve, and by including therein certain additional lands which are

in part covered with timber ;

Area further modified.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven ,

Description .

do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the aforesaid Washington Forest Reserve are hereby further modified so as to read as follows :
Beginning at the point where the range line between Ranges six (6) and seven (7) East, Willamette Meridian, Washington , intersects the international boundary line between the United States of America and the British Possessions ; thence easterly along said international boundary line to the point of intersection with the range line between Ranges twenty- four ( 24 ) and twenty-five (25 ) East ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Ninth

(9th ) Standard Parallel North , to the south- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range twenty- four (24 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section sixteen (16 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of Section thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North , Range

twenty- four (24 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three (3 ) , Township thirty - four (34 ) North , Range twentyfour (24 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of section

eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township : thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty - four ( 24) , said township; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north- east quarter of Section

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3089

twenty-five (25) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east Washington Forest Reserve Con-
corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to tinued. the north-west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34) , said township; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section four ( 4 ) , Township thirty-three ( 33 ) North, Range twenty - four ( 24 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the northwest quarter of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence easterly_to the north- east corner of the south-west quarter of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29) , Township thirty-three ( 33 ) North, Range twenty-three (23 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18) , said township; thence northerly to the north- west
corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of Section seventeen (17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16) , said township ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-two (32) , Township thirtyfour (34) North, Range twenty-three ( 23 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north - east corner of Township thirty-four ( 34 ) North, Range twenty-two (22 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-
east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North, Range twenty-two (22) East ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence, northerly to the north-east corner of Township thirty-five (35 ) North, Range twentyone (21 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the northeast quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North, Range twenty ( 20 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- east corner of the north -east quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the southwest quarter of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the northwest quarter of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence

3090

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estWaRsehseirnvgeton CFoonr- easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to

tinued .

the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-

three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the

south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Township thirty- four ( 34) North, Range twenty ( 20 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18) , Township thirty-three ( 33 ) North, Range twenty-one (21 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Eighth ( 8th ) Standard Parallel North, to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township thirtytwo ( 32 ) North, Range twenty-one (21 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township thirty-one ( 31 ) North, Range

twenty-one (21 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of

Township thirty-one (31 ) North, Range twenty-two ( 22) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section two ( 2 ) . Township thirty ( 30 ) North, Range twenty-two (22 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of the north- west quarter of Section twelve (12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the southeast quarter of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirty (30) , Township thirty (30 ) North, Range twenty-three (23 ) East:

thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four (4 ) ,

Township twenty- nine ( 29) North, Range twenty-three ( 23 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner

of Township twenty-nine ( 29 ) North, Range twenty-two (22 ) East : thence westerly along the Seventh ( 7th) Standard Parallel

North, allowing for proper offsets, to the south-west corner of Township twenty-nine (29 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence north-

erly to the north- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township thirty (30 ) North . Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of the south- west quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the south-

west quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of Section , five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly

to the south- west corner of Township thirty-one ( 31 ) North, Range

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3091

eight

(8)

East ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section

Washington Forest Reserve - Con-

twenty-four ( 24 ) , Township thirty-one ( 31 ) North, range seven ( 7 ) tinued.

East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirteen

( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of

Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south -east

corner of Township thirty-two (32) North, Range seven ( 7) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) ,

Township thirty-two (32 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , Township thirty-two (32 ) North, Range nine (9) East ; thence easterly to the north- west corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter

of Section twenty-eight ( 28) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of the north- west quarter of Section twenty- five  (25) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south-

west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the north-east quarter of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of the north -east

quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18) , Township thirty-two (32 ) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section eight

(8) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east

corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- east

corner of the south-west quarter of Section thirty-two (32) , Town-

ship thirty-three (33 ) North, Range eleven (11 ) East ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section twenty-

nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south - east quarter of Section thirty ( 30) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of the south-west quarter of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-

west quarter of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section

eighteen (18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township thirty-three

(33) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-east corner of Section two ( 2) , said township ; thence westerly

to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township

thirty-four ( 34 ) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township thirty- four (34) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twelve (12) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--17

3092

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estWaRsehsiernvgeton CFoonr- Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east

tinued.

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of

the south-east quarter of Section thirty-two (32 ) , Township thirty-

six (36 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-

west quarter of Section twenty -eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of said

section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence easterly to the south- east corner of the south-west quarter of

Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north- west corner of the north -east quarter of said section ; thence

easterly to the south- east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the south- west corner of Section eleven

( 11) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the

south- west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east

corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to

the south -east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly

to the south- east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to

the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter

of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the

south-west quarter of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence south-

erly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of Section

ten ( 10) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of

the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-

west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly

to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-

cast quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly -to

the north-west corner of the south- west quarter of Section twenty

(20) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of the north-east quarter of Section thirty (30 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-

west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west

corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section one ( 1) ,

Township thirty-five (35 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence

westerly. to the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of said

section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-west

quarter of Section twelve ( 12) , said township ; thence westerly to

the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ;

thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section

fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - west

corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to

the north- west corner of the south - east quarter of Section fifteen

( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the

north- west quarter of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence

westerly to the south- west corner of the north-east quarter of Section

twenty (20) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- west

corner of the south-east quarter of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence north-

erly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3093

south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section four (4) , Washington Forest Reserve - Con-
said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the tinued. north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-
west corner of the north-east quarter of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section seven ( 7) , said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of the north-west quarter of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said
township ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of the north- west

quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three (23) , Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south - east corner of the south- west quarter of Section three (3) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of the northeast quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twentysix (26) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the southeast quarter of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twentynine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section ' nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of Section five (5) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4 ) , Township thirty-six (36) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north - west corner of the south -west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section one

3094

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estWaRsehsiernvgeto-n CFoonr- ( 1 ) , Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range seven (7) East ; thence

tinued .

westerly to the north- west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section

eight (8) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner

of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the

north- west corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township thirty- seven

(37 ) North, Range seven (7 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township thirty-seven (37)

North, Range six (6 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section

fifteen (15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of the south- east quarter of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Sec-

tion three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east

corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , Township thirty-eight ( 38 )

North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west

corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence easterly to 'the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section

thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east

corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township thirty-nine (39) North,

Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of

Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of Section twenty-three ( 23) , said township ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly along the range line to the point of inter-

section with the international boundary line between the United

States of America and the British Possessions, the place of beginning ;

And further beginning at the north-west corner of Section thirty

(30) , Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North, Range seven ( 7) East ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section

twenty-nine ( 29) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - east

corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to

the north- east corner of the south- west quarter of Section twenty-

seven (27) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner

of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence south-

erly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of Section

thirty-five (35 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to

the south- west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Township

thirty-four ( 34) North, Range eight (8 ) East ; thence southerly to

the south- west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township thirty-four (34 ) North, Range nine (9 ) East ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said

township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-

five (35) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Township thirty-three (33 ) North, Range nine (9 ) East ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said town-

ship ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of the north- west

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3095

quarter of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence southerly Washington Forest Reserve Con-
to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; tinued.
thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of
said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section
thirty-six (36 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east cor-

ner of Township thirty-two (32) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north- east quarter of the south-east quarter of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of the south-east quarter of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Eighth ( 8th) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of the southwest quarter of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , Township thirty-three (33 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the northeast quarter of the north-east quarter of Section four (4 ) , Township thirty-two ( 32 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the south - east quarter of the north -east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section one ( 1 ) , Township thirty-two (32) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of the north-east quarter of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of the north-west quarter of the north- west quarter of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Eighth (8th) Standard Parallel North , to the

north- east corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , Township thirty- four (34) North, Range seven ( 7) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-two ( 32) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nineteen (19) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township thirty-five (35 ) North, Range seven ( 7) East , the place of beginning ;

Such of the above-named corners as have not been established by

the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where

such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions

indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur

in actually extending the surveys ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

3096

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

Excluded lands law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

restored to public The land hereby excluded from the reserve and restored to the

domain.

public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but

shall not be subject to entry, filing or selection until after ninety days

notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may

prescribe.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to måke set-

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of June, in the year

of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

June 12, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Wet Mountains Forest Re- WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

serve, Colo. Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103.- entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur-

poses "", " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth , whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public procla-

ination, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits

thereof ":

Forest reserve,

Colorado .

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber , and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within

Description

the boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north- east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) ,
Township nineteen ( 19 ) South , Range seventy -one ( 71 ) West, Sixth

(6th ) Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the north-

west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township nineteen ( 19 ) South,

Range seventy ( 70 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west corner

of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3097

east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly Wet Mountains Forest Reserve-
to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- Continued. east corner of Section twenty-nine (29) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township twenty ( 20 ) South, Range seventy ( 70) West ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-seven ( 27) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the northwest corner of Township twenty-one ( 21 ) South, Range sixty- nine (69) West ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , Township twenty-one ( 21 ) South, Range sixty-eight (68) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section three (3) , Township twenty-two (22) South, Range sixty-eight ( 68 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section twenty- seven (27) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-one (21) , Township twenty-three (23 ) South, Range sixty-eight (68 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty- seven (27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirtyfour (34) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , Township twenty-four ( 24 ) South, Range sixtyeight ( 68 ) West ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirtyfive ( 35) , Township twenty - five ( 25 ) South, Range sixty-eight ( 68 ) West ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section two (2 ) , Township twenty-six ( 26 ) South, Range sixty-eight (68 ) West; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty ( 20) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north - west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township twenty-five (25 ) South, Range sixty-ninet (69) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nine ( 9) ,

3098

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ForWeestt ReMosuenrtvaein-s said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said sec-

Continued.

tion ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) ,

Township twenty-five ( 25 ) South, Range seventy (70) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to

the north- west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of Section twenty-four ( 24) , Township twenty-five (25) South, Range seventyone (71 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Township

twenty-four ( 24 ) South, Range seventy ( 70) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-nine (29) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twentyone ( 21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , Township twenty-three (23 ) South, Range seventy (70) West ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence, easterly to the north- east corner of Section five (5) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence east-

erly to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Township twenty-two ( 22)

South, Range sixty-nine ( 69 ) West ; thence easterly to the south- east

corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty (30) , said township; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12) , Township twenty-two

(22 ) South, Range seventy ( 70 ) West ; thence westerly to the southeast corner of Section three ( 3) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- east

corner of Section thirty- three ( 33 ) , Township twenty-one (21 ) South, Range seventy (70 ) West ; thence northerly to the north - east

corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the south -east quarter of Section thirty-six (36) , Township twenty (20) South, Range seventy-one (71 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the

north-west quarter of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north -west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section twentyone (21 ) , Township nineteen ( 19 ) South, Range seventy-one ( 71 ) West ; thence easterly to the south - east corner of said section ; thence

Lands excepted.

northerly to the north-east corner of said section , the place of beginning ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been , prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3099

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all

persons not to make

set-

Reserved settlement.

from

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Wet Name.

Mountains Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. T. ROOSEVELT

By the President :

FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

June 12, 1905.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress,

approved

March third,

eighteen

hundred

and

ninety - one ,

Cassia Forest Reserve, Idaho.

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur- Preamble.

poses "",," That the President of the United States may, from time to Vol. 26, p. 1103.

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Idaho, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by

section twenty - four

of

Forest Idaho.

reserve,

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Idaho and particularly described as follows :

Beginning at the north- west corner of Township thirteen ( 13) South, Range twenty-one (21 ) East, Boise Base and Meridian, Idaho ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section

Description.

3100

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

thirty-four (34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north - east corner of the north-west quarter of Section three (3 ) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range twenty-one (21 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section three (3 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range twenty-one (21 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nine (9 ) , Township sixteen ( 16) South, Range twenty-one ( 21 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-

Lands excepted.

west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25) , Township sixteen ( 16 ) South, Range twenty ( 20) East ; thence westerly to the north - east corner of Section thirty-three (33) , said township ; thence southerly to the boundary line between the States of Idaho and Nevada ; thence westerly along said state boundary line to the southwest corner of fractional Section thirty-three ( 33) , Township sixteen ( 16 ) South, Range eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range seventeen ( 17) East ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtythree ( 33 ) , Township thirteen (13) South, Range seventeen ( 17) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the Second (2nd) Standard Parallel South to the north-west corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range twenty-one ( 21 ) East, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

Reserved settlement.
Name.

from

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Cassia Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-ninth. T. ROOSEVELT
By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

3101 June 13, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS,

it

is

provided

by

section

twenty- four

of the

Act

of

The Cochetopah Forest Reserve,

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, Colo.

Preamble. entitle99d,66"An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur- Vol. 26, p. 1103.

poses

That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth , whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado , within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Forest reserve, States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of Colorado. the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north-west corner of Township fifty (50) north, Description. Range four (4) East, New Mexico Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section two ( 2) , Township fifty ( 50 ) North, Range seven (7) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township forty- nine (49) North, Range seven (7) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Twelfth (12th) Correction Line North, to the south-west corner of Section one (1 ) , Township forty-eight (48 ) North, Range seven ( 7) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section seven ( 7) , Township forty-eight (48 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty ( 20) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , Township forty-seven ( 47) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Township forty-six (46 ) North. Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east

3102

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estCoRcehseetrovpea-hCoFnor- corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , Township forty-seven (47) North,

tinued.

Range seven ( 7) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of

said section ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section

thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of

Section two ( 2 ) , Township forty-six ( 46 ) North, Range seven (7) East ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of Sec-

tion twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence casterly to the south-east

corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to

the south-west corner of Section seven (7) , Township forty-six (46)

North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner

of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the

south-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section thirty-one

(31 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the

north- east quarter of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-five (25) , said

township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section thirty

( 30) , Township forty-six (46 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence

southerly to the south - east corner of Section six (6) , Township forty-

five (45 ) North, Range nine (9 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-

east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township forty-five (45 ) North,

Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section

sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of

Section seven ( 7 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section three (3 ) , Township forty-five (45) North, Range seven (7)

East; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township forty-six (46)

North, Range seven (7) East ; thence northerly to the north - west

corner of Section thirty ( 30) , said township ; thence easterly to the

north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east

corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to

the south- west corner of Section twelve ( 12) , Township forty- six

(46 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence northerly to the north -west

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of

Section two (2 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of

Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east

corner of Section nineteen (19) , said township ; thence westerly to

the south-west corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , Township forty-

six (46 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner

of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township : thence southerly to the

north- east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) . Township forty-six (46 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence westerly to the north - west

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of

said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section

two ( 2 ) , Township forty-five (45 ) North, Range four ( 4 ) East ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) ,

said township ; thence westerly along the Eleventh ( 11th) Correction

Line North to the north-west corner of Section four (4 ) , Township

forty- four (44 ) North, Range four ( 4) East ; thence southerly to the

south- west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of the south -west quarter of Section

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3103

thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west estCoRcehseetrovpea-h CFoonr-corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to tinued. the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Township forty-four (44 ) North, Range five (5 ) East ; thence easterly along the Eleventh (11th) Correction Line North to the north- east corner of Section six (6) , Township fortyfour (44 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence southerly to the northwest corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township forty-three (43 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-two (32) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section two (2) , Township forty-two (42) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range four (4) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of the north-east quarter of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Tenth ( 10th) Correction Line North, to the southeast corner of Section seven (7) , Township forty (40 ) North , Range four (4) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-
four ( 24) , Township forty ( 40 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section eighteen (18) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence. westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of the south-east quarter of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township forty (40) North, Range two (2) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Tenth ( 10th) Correction Line North, to the north-east corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , Township forty-one ( 41 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-nine (29) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section seven (7 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

3104

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estCoRcehseetrovpea-h CFoonr- north -west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west

tinued.

corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township forty-two (42) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section

twenty (20 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township forty-two (42 ) North, Range

one ( 1 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said town-

ship; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Township forty-

three (43 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) West ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of Township forty-four (44) North, Range three (3) West ; thence easterly along the Eleventh ( 11th) Correction Line

North to the north-east corner of Section five (5) , Township fortyfour (44) North, Range two (2) West ; thence southerly to the south-

west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of Section five (5 ) , Township forty-

four ( 44 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence northerly along the

section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Eleventh ( 11th )

Correction Line North, to the north-west corner of Section twenty-

one ( 21 ) , Township forty-five (45 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ;

thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section fourteen ( 14) ,

said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said

section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty -six (26) ,

Township forty-six (46 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence west-

erly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of Section two (2 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence northerly along

the New Mexico Principal Meridian to the north-west corner of Sec-

tion seven ( 7) , Township forty-seven (47 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

twelve ( 12) , Township forty- six (46 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ;

thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) ,

Township forty-five (45 ). North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence easterly

to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west

corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township forty-five (45 ) North, Range

two (2) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the south -west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-

five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of

said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen (19 ) ,

Township forty-five ( 45 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to

the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township

forty-six (46 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3105

corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Cochetopah Forest Reserve - Con-
Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- tinued.

east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six ( 36) , Township forty-

seven (47 ) North, Range two (2 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section twenty- six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence north-

erly to the north-west corner of Section fourteen (14 ) , said town-

ship ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of section nine ( 9 ) ,

Township forty-seven (47) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence

northerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , Town-

ship forty-eight (48 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence easterly

to the north- east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34) , Township forty-

eight (48 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east

corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three (23) , said township ;

thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east

quarter of said section ; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Twelfth (12th ) Correction Line North, to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter

of Section fifteen ( 15) , Township forty-nine (49) North, Range five (5 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section

seventeen (17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter

of said section ; thence southerly along the section lines, allowing for the proper offset on the Twelfth ( 12th) Correction Line North, to

the south-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , Township forty-eight (48 )

North, Range five (5) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly along the range line, allow-

ing for the proper offset on the Twelfth (12th ) Correction Line North, to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township forty-

nine (49 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section

two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner

of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section

six (6) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of

Township fifty ( 50 ) North, Range four ( 4 ) East, the place of

beginning ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Land excepted.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning

is

hereby

expressly

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

set-

Reserved settlement.

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation..

The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Cocheto-

Name. >

pah Forest Reserve.

from

3106

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905 .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 13th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President :

FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

June 13, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The Montezuma Forest Reserve, WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Colo. Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

Post, p. 3307.

99 poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having

public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly

or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall,

by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado, within the limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Colorado.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty - four

of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and pro-

claim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set

apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels

Description.

of land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north-west corner of Section fifteen (15 ) , Township forty-two ( 42 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West, New Mexico

Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township forty-two (42 ) North ,

Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township forty-two (42 ) North ,

Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

of Section five ( 5) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south-west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-four ( 24 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) ,

Township forty-two (42 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence south-

erly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the

north - east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range nine (9 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence easterly

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3107

to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25) , said township ; Montezuma Forest Reserve - Con-
thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Tenth ( 10th) tinued. Correction Line North, to the south- east corner of Section twentyfive (25) , Township forty (40) North, Range nine ( 9) West ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , Township thirty-nine ( 39) North, Range nine ( 9) West; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section four (4 ) , Township thirty-seven (37) North, Range nine ( 9 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Ninth ( 9th) Correction Line North, to the south- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range eleven (11) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twentytwo (22) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section .twenty- four (24) , Township thirty-six (36) North, Range twelve (12 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Ninth ( 9th) Correction Line North, to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12) , Township thirty-seven ( 37 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section five (5) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , Township thirty-eight (38 ) North, Range fourteen (14 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section four ( 4) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township thirty-nine ( 39 ) North , Range fourteen (14 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of Section twenty- nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south - west quarter of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south - east corner of the south -west quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of the south-east quarter of Section nine ( 9 ) ,
VOL XXXIV, PT 3-18

3108

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

estMoRnetseerzvuem-a CFoorn-- said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the

tinued.

north-east quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the north- east

corner of the north-west quarter of the north-west quarter of Section

twelve ( 12) , Township thirty-nine ( 39 ) North , Range fifteen ( 15) West ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of the south- west

quarter of the south-west quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said town-

ship ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south-west

quarter of the south- west quarter of said section ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-

three (23 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner

of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of Section thirty-four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence northerly

to the north-west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of Section three (3) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence east-

erly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-two (32) , Township forty (40) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence northerly to

the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east

corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township forty (40) North, Range

thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of

Section twenty- seven (27) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east

corner of Section twenty-four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence northerly

to the south-east corner of Section one (1 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , Township forty- one (41 )

North, Range twelve ( 12 ) West; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section five ( 5) , said township ; thence westerly to the

south - west corner of Section thirty-four ( 34) , Township forty-two

(42 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence northerly to the

north- west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township , the place of

beginning ; Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that

this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply

Reserved settlement.
Name.

from

with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Montezuma Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 13th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

3109 June 14, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Con-

The Uncompahgre Forest Re-

gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, enti""- serve, Colo. Preamble.

tled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

" That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set Post, p. 3282.

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered

with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and
reserving said lands as a public reservation ; Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United ColFoorradeso.t reserve,
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim
that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Bebinning at the north-west corner of section eighteen , ( 18 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range one hundred and two (102 ) West, Sixth ( 6th ) Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence

Description.

southerly to the south-east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north- east quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to

the north- west corner of Section seven ( 7) , Township fifteen ( 15) South, Range one hundred and one ( 101 ) West ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the

north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range one hundred ( 100 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty- two (22) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence south-

erly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-five ( 25) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty- six (36) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of

Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range ninety-nine ( 99 ) West ; thence easterly along the Third (3rd ) Correction Line South to the northeast corner of fractional Township fifty-one (51 ) North, Range fifteen ( 15 ) West, New Mexico Principal Meridian ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section seven (7 ) , Township fifty ( 50) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the north- east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of the south-east quarter of Section seven ( 7 ) , Township fifty

(50) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Section five (5) , Township forty-nine (49 ) North,

3110

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

FoUrensct oRmepsaerhvgere Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

Continued.

of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township forty-nine (49 ) North, Range

twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Sec-

tion thirty-six (36 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Section two (2 ) , Township forty-eight (48 ) North , Range

twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence southerly to the south - west corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five

(5) , Township forty-seven ( 47) North, Range eleven (11 ) West ;

thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section sixteen ( 16) ,

said township ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section

twenty-four ( 24 ) , Township forty-seven (47 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence south-

erly to the south -east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , Township

forty-six (46 ) North, Range ten ( 10) West ; thence westerly to the

south- west corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , Town-

ship forty-six (46 ) North, Range eleven (11 ) West ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner

of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section seven (7) , Township forty-six ( 46 ) North,

Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence northerly to the south- east corner

of Township forty-seven (47) North, Range thirteen (13 ) West ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence westerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-eight

(28) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of

said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section five ( 5) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south -east corner of Township fortyeight (48 ) North, Range fifteen ( 15) West ; thence northerly to the

north-east corner of Section twenty- five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said

township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) ,

said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) ,

Township forty-eight (48 ) North, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence

northerly to the north- east corner of Section three (3 ) , said town-

ship ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtythree ( 33 ) , Township forty-nine (49 ) North, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence northerly to the south - east corner of Section eight ( 8 ),

said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the south- west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north- west corner of said township ; thence

westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35) , Town-

ship fifty ( 50 ) North, Range seventeen ( 17 ) West ; thence northerly

to the north-east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said town-

ship ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-two

(22) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of

Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ;

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

3111

thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section seven

(7) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Sectio.n

thirty-five (35), fractional Township fifty- one ( 51 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of the south-east quarter of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly along the quarter-section lines to the point of intersection with the Third (3rd ) Correction Line South , Sixth ( 6th ) Principal Meridian ; thence easterly along the said Correction Line to the south-west corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) South,

Range one hundred and two ( 102 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township , the place

of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the

points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

Lands excepted.

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided , that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Uncom- Name.

pahgre Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 14th day of June, in the year

of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and twenty-ninth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 1 , 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas it is provided by section 13 of the act of Congress of Norway, copyright.
March 3, 1891 , entitled "An Act to amend title sixty, chapter three, Preamble. of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relating to copyrights," Vol. 26, p. 1110.
that said act " shall only apply to a citizen or subject of a foreign
state or nation when such foreign state or nation permits to citizens of the United States of America the benefit of copyright on sub-
stantially the same basis as its own citizens ; or when such foreign state or nation is a party to an international agreement which provides for

3112

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

reciprocity in the granting of copyright, by the terms of which agreement the United States of America may, at its pleasure, become a

party to such agreement ";

And whereas it is also provided by said section that " the existence

of either of the conditions aforesaid shall be determined by the Presi-

dent of the United States by proclamation made from time to time as

the purposes of this act may require " ;

And whereas satisfactory official assurances have been given that in

Norway the law permits to citizens of the United States the benefit of copyright on substantially the same basis as to the citizens of that

Copyright bene- country :

fits extended to Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt , President, of the United

subjects of

way .

Nor- States of America, do declare and proclaim that the first of the con-

ditions specified in section 13 of the act of March 3, 1891 , is now ful-

filled in respect to the subjects of Norway.

In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington, this first day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and twenty- ninth.

By the President : HERBERT H. D. PEIRCE Acting Secretary of State.

THEODORE

ROOSEVELT .

July 3, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

Announcing death of John Hay, Sec-

John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States, died on July

retary of State. 1st. His death, a crushing sorrow to his friends, is to the people of

this country a national bereavement ; and it is in addition a serious

loss to all mankind, for to him it was given to stand as a leader in the

effort to better world -conditions by striving to advance the cause of

international peace and justice. He entered the public service as the

trusted and intimate companion of Abraham Lincoln, and for wellnigh forty-five years he served his country with loyal devotion and

high ability in many positions of honor and trust ; and finally he crowned his life work by serving as Secretary of State with such farsighted reading of the future and such loyalty to lofty ideals as to confer lasting benefits not only upon our own country but upon all the nations of the earth.

As a suitable expression of national mourning, I direct that the diplomatic representatives of the United States in all foreign coun-

tries display the flags over their embassies and legations at half-mast for ten days ; that for a like period the flag of the United States be
displayed at half- mast at all forts and military posts and at all naval stations and on all vessels of the United States.

I further order that on the day of the funeral the executive departments in the City of Washington be closed and that on all public buildings throughout the United States the national flag be displayed at haif-mast.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.
Done at the City of Washington, this third day of July, A. D. 1905, and of the independence of the United States of America
[ SEAL. ] the one hundred and twenty ninth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : HERBERT H. D. PEIRCE Acting Secretary of State.

3113

BY THE PRESident of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA .

July 14, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.
The Diamond WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Mountain Forest Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one, RePsreeravmeb. lCeal. . entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur- Vol. 26, p. 1103. poses "", " That the President of the United States may, from time to Post, p. 3241. time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ":
And whereas, the public lands in the State of California, within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;
Forest reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United California. States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of
land lying and being situate in the State of California , and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north- west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Description. Township thirty (30) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian , California ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twelve ( 12) , Township twentynine ( 29 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township twenty-eight (28 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section nine-
teen ( 19) , Township twenty-eight ( 28 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty - eight (28) , said township; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-

3114

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

taiDniamFoonrdestMouRne-- fSievceti(o3n5 )t, wsealivdeto(w1n2s)h, iTpo;wtnhsehnicep stowuetnhteryl-syetvoetnthhe n(o2r7t)h-wNeosrtthc,orRnaerngoef

thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen (18) , Township twenty-seven ( 27 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly, allowing for the proper offset on the range line, to the north-east corner of Section five (5) , Township twenty- six (26)
North, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north - west corner of Section thirty- one (31) , Township twenty-six (26 ) North, Range sixteen ( 16 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly along the Fifth (5th) Standard Parallel North to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , Township twenty-five ( 25 ) North , Range sixteen ( 16 ) East ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six (6 ) , Township twenty- four (24 ) North, Range seventeen ( 17) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-two ( 32) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6) , Township twenty-three (23 ) North, Range seventeen ( 17) East ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north -east corner of Section ten ( 10) , Township twenty-
three ( 23 ) North, Range sixteen ( 16 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section seven (7) , Township twenty-three ( 23 ) North, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township twenty-four ( 24) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , Township twenty-four (24) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section_nine (9) , Township twenty-three ( 23 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section seventeen (17 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3115

tion ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty - five Diamond Mountain Forest Re-
(25), Township twenty-three ( 23 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East ; serve Continued. thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township twentytwo (22 ) North, Range twelve (12 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township twenty-three (23 ) North , Range
twelve ( 12) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twentynine (29 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twelve (12) , Township twenty-three (23 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of Section two (2) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twentyseven (27) , Township twenty-four ( 24 ) North , Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south - east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , Township twenty-five (25) north, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the Fifth (5th) Standard Parallel North to the south-
west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township twenty-six (26 ) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , Township twenty-seven (27) North , Range nine (9) East ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section thirtythree (33) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township twenty-seven (27 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , Township twentyeight (28 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-

3116

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner

of Section four (4) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , Township twenty-nine ( 29 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section

eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west

corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township thirty ( 30) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East, the place of beginning; such of the above- named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in

Lands excepted.

projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

Reserved settlement.
Name.

from

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. The reservation hereby established shall be known as The Diamond
Mountain Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 14th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

July, 14, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

Uintah Forest Reserve, Utah.
Preamble.
Vol. 29, p. 895. Vol. 26, p. 1103 .
Post, pp. 3186, 3207, 3240.

WHEREAS , the Uintah Forest Reserve, in the State of Utah, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-second, eighteen bundred and ninety-seven, under and by virtue of section twentyfour of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and

for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the

United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or under-

growth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

Vol. 33, p. 1070.

And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved
March third, nineteen hundred and five, entitled , " An Act making appropriations for the current and contingent expenses of the Indian Department and for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various Indian

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3117

tribes for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and

1

six, and for other purposes ", that " before the opening of the Uintah

Indian Reservation the President is hereby authorized to set apart

and reserve as an addition to the Uintah Forest Reserve, subject to

the laws, rules, and regulations governing forest reserves, and subject to the mineral rights granted by the Act of Congress of May twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and two, such portion of the lands within the Uintah Indian Reservation as he considers necessary " ;

And whereas, it is considered necessary for the public good that certain lands in the Uintah Indian Reservation be set apart and reserved as an addition to the Uintah Forest Reserve ;
Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United foLreasntdsresaerdvdeedfrotmo States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid act of Uintah Indian Res Congress, approved March third, nineteen hundred and five, do ervation.

hereby make known and proclaim that certain lands in the said Uintah Indian Reservation are hereby added to and made a part of the Uintah Forest Reserve, and that the boundary lines of the said
forest reserve are, accordingly, so changed and extended as to read as follows :

Beginning at the north-west corner of Township one ( 1 ) South, Range seven ( 7) East, Salt Lake Meridian, Utah ; thence easterly along the Base Line to the south-west corner of Township one ( 1 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Township two (2 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the middle of the channel of the Green River ; thence in a general south-easterly direction along the middle of the channel of said river to the range line between Ranges twenty-two (22 ) and twenty- three (23 ) East ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the Base Line, to the south-east corner of Township two ( 2 ) South, Range twenty-two (22 ) East ; thence westerly to the

Description.

north- west corner of Township three ( 3 ) South, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East ; thence southerly to the eastern boundary of the Uintah Indian Reservation ; thence north-westerly along said Indian reservation boundary to the section line between Sections twenty-one ( 21 ) and twenty-eight (28 ) , Township two (2 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East, Uintah Meridian ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , Township two (2 ) North, Range . one (1 ) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen (13) , Township two (2) North, Range two (2 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twelve ( 12) , said, township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Section four (4 ) , Township two (2 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Township one (1 ) North, Range six (6) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen

( 13 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ;

thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section sev-

enteen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , Township one (1 ) North, Range nine

(9) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ;

3118

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

Uintah Forest thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) ,

Reserve - Contin-

ued .

said township ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for

the proper offset on the Base Line, to the north-west corner of Sec-

tion eighteen ( 18 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South , Range nine ( 9 ) West ;

thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , Town-

ship one (1 ) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- three (33) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section four (4 ) , Township two

( 2 ) South, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen (16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to

the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township two (2 ) South, Range

eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Sec-

tion thirty -three (33 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the southeast corner of Section twenty ( 20) , said township ; thence westerly

to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the

south-east corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the south-west corner of said said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the

north-east corner of fractional Section four (4 ) , Township two ( 2) South, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33) , said township ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township three (3) South, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of Township four (4) South, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ;

thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three ( 33) ,

Township four (4 ) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-

west corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence north-

erly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty (30) , Township four (4 ) South,

Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

Section thirty- one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the southwest corner of Township four (4) South, Range nine ( 9 ) West ;

thence northerly to the north -west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section

twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section five (5 ) , Township five (5 ) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section

eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east cor-

ner of Section twenty-four ( 24) , Township five ( 5 ) South , Range nine ( 9 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of

Section twenty- nine (29 ) , said township ; thence . southerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , Township six (6 ) South, Range nine (9) West ; thence easterly to the south- west

corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , Township six (6) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section

four (4 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the eastern boundary of the Uintah Indian Reservation ; thence in a general south - westerly

and north-westerly direction along said Indian reservation boundary to the range line between Ranges six (6 ) and seven (7) East, Salt

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3119

Lake Meridian ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Town-

ship one ( 1 ) South , Range seven ( 7) East, the place of beginning ;

such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the

official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such

corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated

without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually

extending the surveys ; Lands excepted .
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 14th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth .

· By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PREsident of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 14, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

Uintah Indian Whereas it was provided by the Act of Congress, approved May Reservation, Utah.

27, A. D. , 1902 ( 32 Stat., 263) , among other things, that on October

Preamble. Vol. 32, p. 263.

first, 1903, the unallotted lands in the Uintah Indian Reservation , in

the State of Utah , " shall be restored to the public domain : Provided, That persons entering any of said lands under the homestead

laws shall pay therefor at the rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre ".

And , whereas, the time for the opening of said unallotted lands was extended to October 1 , 1904 , by the Act of Congress approved March 3, 1903 ( 32 Stat. , 998 ) , and was extended to March 10, 1905 , by the Act of Congress approved April 21 , 1904 (33 Stat., 207 ) , and was

Vol. 32, p. 998. Vol. 33, p. 207.

again extended to not later than September 1 , 1905, by the Act of Congress, approved March 3 , 1905 (33 Stat. , 1069 ) , which last named Vol. 33, p. 1069.
act provided, among other things:

That the said unallotted lands, excepting such tracts as may have been set aside as national forest reserve, and such mineral lands as were disposed of by the Act of Congress of May twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and two, shall be disposed of under the general provisions of the homestead and townsite laws of the United States, and shall be opened to settlement and entry by proclamation of the President, which proclamation shall prescribe the manner in which these lands may be settled upon, occupied, and entered by persons entitled to make entry thereof ;, and no person shall be permitted to settle upon, occupy, or enter any of said lands, except as prescribed in said proclamation, until after the expiration of sixty days from the time when the same are thereby opened to settlement and entry : Provided, That the rights of honorably discharged Union soldiers and sailors of the late civil and Spanish war or Philippine insurrection,

3120

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

Unallotted lands on reservation
opened to entry, etc., Aug, 28, 1905.

as defined and described in sections twenty-three hundred and four and twentythree hundred and five of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the Act of March first, nineteen hundred and one, shall not be abridged.
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by said Acts
of Congress, do hereby declare and make known that all the unallotted

lands in said reservation, excepting such as have at that time been reserved for military, forestry and other purposes, and such mineral

lands as may have been disposed of under existing laws, will on and after the 28th day of August, 1905, in the manner hereinafter pre-

scribed, and not otherwise, be opened to entry, settlement and disposi-

tion under the general provisions of the homestead and townsite laws

Places of regis- of the United States ; and it is further directed and prescribed that :

tration.

Commencing at 9 o'clock a . m. Tuesday, August 1 , 1905, and ending

at 6 o'clock p. m. Saturday, August 12, 1905, a registration will be

had at Vernal, Price and Provo, State of Utah, and at Grand Junc-

Applications .

tion, State of Colorado, for the purpose of ascertaining what persons desire to enter, settle upon, and acquire title to any of said lands under the homestead law, and of ascertaining their qualifications so to do. To obtain registration each applicant will be required to show himself duly qualified, by written application to be made only on a

blank form provided by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, to make homestead entry of these lands under existing laws,

and to give the registering officer such appropriate matters of description and identity as will protect the applicant and the Government against any attempted impersonation. Registration cannot be ef-

fected through the use of the mails or the employment of an agent, R. S. sec . 2304, excepting that honorably discharged soldiers and sailors entitled to

p. 422.

the benefits of section 2304 of the Revised Statutes of the United

Vol. 31 , p . 847.

States, as amended by the act of Congress, approved March 1 , 1901 (31 Stat., 847) , may present their applications for registration and due proofs of their qualifications through an agent of their own

selection, having a duly executed power of attorney on a blank form provided by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, but no

person will be permitted to act as agent for more than one such soldier or sailor. No person will be permitted to register more than

Certificate of reg- once or in any other than his true name.

istration .

Each applicant who shows himself duly qualified will be registered

and given a nontransferable certificate to that effect, which will entitle him to go upon and examine the lands to be opened hereunder;

Restrictions.

but the only purpose for which he can go upon and examine said lands is that of enabling him later on, as herein provided , to understandingly select the lands for which he may make entry. No one will be permitted to make settlement upon any of said lands in advance of the opening herein provided for, and during the first

sixty days following said opening no one but registered applicants

will be permitted to make homestead settlement upon any of said lands and then only in pursuance of a homestead entry duly allowed

Drawings.

by the local land officers, or of a soldier's declaratory statement duly accepted by such officers.
The order in which , during the first sixty days following the opening, the registered applicants will be permitted to make homestead

entry of the lands opened hereunder, will be determined by a drawing for the district publicly held at Provo, Utah, commencing at 9 o'clock a. m. , Thursday, August 17, 1905 , and continuing for such

period as may be necessary to complete the same. The drawing will be had under the supervision and immediate observance of a com-

mittee of three persons whose integrity is such as to make their control of the drawing a guaranty of its fairness. The members of this

committee will be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, who will

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3121

prescribe suitable compensation for their services. Preparatory to this drawing the registration officers will, at the time of registering each applicant who shows himself duly qualified , make out a card, which must be signed by the applicant, and giving such a description of the applicant as will enable the local land officers to thereafter identify him. This card will be subsequently sealed in a separate envelope which will bear no other distinguishing label or mark than such as may be necessary to show that it is to go into the drawing. These envelopes will be carefully preserved and remain sealed until opened in the course of the drawing herein provided. When the registration is completed, all of these sealed envelopes will be brought together at the place of drawing and turned over to the committee in charge of the drawing, who, in such manner as in their judgment will be attended with entire fairness and equality of opportunity,

shall proceed to draw out and open the separate envelopes and to give to each inclosed card a number in the order in which the envelope containing the same is drawn. The result of the drawing will be certified by the committee to the officers of the district and will determine the order in which the applicants may make homestead entry of said lands and settlement thereon.

Notice of the drawings, stating the name of each applicant and Notice.

number assigned to him by the drawing, will be posted each day at

the place of drawing, and each applicant will be notified of his num-

ber, and of the day upon which he must make his entry, by a postal card mailed to him at the address given by him at the time of registra-

tion. The result of each day's drawing will also be given to the press

to be published as a matter of news. Applications for homestead

entry of said lands during the first sixty days following the opening

can be made only by registered applicants and in the order established

by the drawing.

Commencing on Monday, August 28, 1905, at 9 o'clock a . m. , the PAoppslti, cpa.ti3o1n4s0. . applications of those drawing numbers 1 to 50, inclusive, must be pre-
sented at the land office in the town of Vernal, Utah, in the land dis-

trict in which said lands are situated, and will be considered in their

numerical order during the first day, and the applications of those

drawing numbers 51 to 100, inclusive, must be presented and will be considered in their numerical order during the second day, and so on

at that rate until all of said lands subject to entry under the home-

stead law, and desired thereunder, have been entered. If any appli-

cant fails to appear and present his application for entry when the

number assigned to him by the drawing is reached , his right to enter

will be passed until after the other applications assigned for that day

have been disposed of, when he will be given another opportunity to make entry, failing in which he will be deemed to have abandoned

his right to make entry under such drawing.

To

obtain the

allowance

of

a

homestead

entry ,

each

applicant

must

Certificates registration.

of

personally present the certificate of registration theretofore issued to

him, together with a regular homestead application and the necessary accompanying proofs, together with the regular land office fees, but

an honorably discharged soldier or sailor may file his declaratory
statement through his agent, who can represent but one soldier or
sailor as in the matter of registration. Payments.
Persons who make homestead entry for any of these lands will be
required to pay therefor at the rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents
per acre when they make final proof, but no payment, other than the
usual fees and commissions will be required at the time the entry is made.
Nonmineral affiPersons who apply to make entry of these lands prior to October . davits. 27, 1905, will not be required to file the usual nonmineral affidavit

3122

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

with their applications to enter, but such affidavit must be filed before

Entries.

final proof is accepted under their entries ; but all persons who make entry after that date will be required to file that affidavit with their applications to enter.
The production of the certificate of registration will be dispensed with only upon satisfactory proof of its loss or destruction. If at the time of considering his regular application for entry it appear

that an applicant is disqualified from making homestead entry of these lands, his application will be rejected, notwithstanding his

prior registration. If any applicant shall register more than once

hereunder, or in any other than his true name, or shall transfer his

registration certificate, he will thereby lose all the benefits of the reg-

istration and drawing herein provided for, and will be precluded

from entering or settling upon any of said lands during the first

sixty days following said opening.

Townsites.

Any person or persons desiring to found, or to suggest establish-

31P4o3s. t, pp. 3139 , ing, a townsite upon any of the said lands, at any point, may, at any

time before the opening herein provided for, file in the land office a written application to that effect, describing by legal subdivisions

the lands intended to be affected, and Stating fully and under oath the necessity or propriety of founding or establishing a town at that

place. The local officers will forthwith transmit said petition to the Commissioner of the General Land Office with their recommendation

in the premises. Such Commissioner, if he believes the public interests will be subserved thereby, will, if the Secretary of the Interior approve thereof, issue an order withdrawing the lands described in

such petition, or any portion thereof, from homestead entry and set-

tlement and directing that the same be held for the time being for disposal under the townsite laws of the United States in such man-

ner as the Secretary of the Interior may from time to time direct ; and, if at any time after such withdrawal has been made it is deter-

mined that the lands so withdrawn are not needed for townsite pur-

poses they may be released from such withdrawal and then disposed

Entry of undisposed-of lands.

of under the general provisions of the homestead laws in the manner prescribed herein.
All persons are especially admonished that under the said act of
Congress approved March 3, 1905 , it is provided that no person shall be permitted to settle upon, occupy, or enter any of said lands except

in the manner prescribed in this proclamation until after the expiration of sixty days from the time when the same are opened to settle-

ment and entry. After the expiration of the said period of sixty days, but not before, as hereinbefore prescribed, any of said lands remaining undisposed of may be settled upon, occupied, and entered under the general provisions of the homestead and townsite laws of

the United States in like manner as if the manner of effecting such settlement, occupancy, and entry had not been prescribed herein in

obedience to law.

Regulations.

The Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe all needful rules and

regulations necessary to carry into full effect the opening herein provided for.

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington this 14th July, in the year of our Lord 1905, and of the Independence of the United States
[ SEAL. ] the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

3123 July 21, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Gila Forest serve, N. Mex. ReCongress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, Preamble.
Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to
time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or
not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclanation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
Vol. 30 , p. 36. And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, entitled,
"An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hun-
dred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that
has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ";

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico,

within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with tim-

ber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting

apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation. Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Area extended.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid acts of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that the Gila River

Forest Reserve, in the Territory of New Mexico, established by proclamation of March second, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, is hereby so changed and enlarged as to include all those certain tracts,

Post, p. 3126.

pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the Territory of
New Mexico, and within the boundaries particularly described as . follows :

Beginning at the north-east corner of Township five (5 ) South, Description.

Range sixteen ( 16 ) West, New Mexico Principal Meridian, New

Mexico ; thence southerly along the range line, allowing for the proper offset on the First ( 1st) Standard Parallel South, to the

north-west corner of Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range fifteen ( 15 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) South , Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence northerly to

the north-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to

the north-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township eight (8) South, Range twelve (12 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township eight ( 8 ) South , Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east

corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence easterly to

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-19

3124

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

serGviela CFoonrteisntuedRe. - the north-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township nine (9) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Township nine ( 9 ) South , Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south -west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- five (35) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section thirty ( 30) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range nine (9 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range nine ( 9) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township ten ( 10) South, Range nine (9 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township; thence easterly along the Second (2nd ) Standard Parallel South to the north-east corner of Section six (6 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty ( 20) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range eight ( 8) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township fourteen (14) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range eight
(8 ) West ; thence easterly along the Third (3rd ) Standard Parallel South to the north -east corner of Section five (5) , Township sixteen (16 ) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-
east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-three (23) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township seventeen ( 17) South, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township seventeen ( 17 ) South , Range nine ( 9 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section eighteen (18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township seventeen ( 17 ) South , Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township sixteen ( 16 ) South , Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence . westerly to the

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3125

Gila Forest Resouth-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north -west serve Continued. corner of said section ; thence westerly, to the south-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twelve (12 ) , Township sixteen ( 16) South, Range eleven : (11 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section four ( 4 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly along the Third ( 3rd ) Standard Parallel South to the north-west corner of said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township seventeen ( 17 ) South, Range eleven' ( 11 ) West ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Township seventeen ( 17 ) South, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the eastern boundary of the Fort Bayard Military Reservation ; thence northerly, westerly and southerly along the boundary of said Military Reservation to the south-east corner of Lot four ( 4 ) , Section twenty-two (22 ) , Township seventeen ( 17 ) South, Range thirteen (13) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of Section eight (8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township seventeen ( 17 ) South, Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township seventeen (17 ) South, Range fifteen ( 15 ) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25) , Township sixteen ( 16 ) South, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twentyeight ( 28) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section'; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Third (3rd ) Standard Parallel South, to the northwest corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range nineteen ( 19 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the boundary line between New Mexico and Arizona ; thence northerly along said boundary line to the north- west corner of Township five (5 ) South, Range twenty-one (21 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Township five (5) South, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West, the

place of beginning; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that

Lands excepted.

3126

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of

land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply

with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

setRtelseemrevnetd. from Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

New name.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. This reservation shall be known hereafter as the Gila Forest

Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . Done at the City of Washington this 21st day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of [ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

[NOTE . -The following proclamation having been omitted from Volume 30 is now printed. ]

March 2 , 1899.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

Gila River Forest Whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Congress,

Reserve, N. Mex. Preamble .

approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled,"An act to

Vol. 26, p. 1103. repeal timber-culture-laws, and for other purposes ", " That the President of the

United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or

Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands

wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and reserving said

lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Now, therefore, I, William McKinley, President of the United States, by

New Mexico.

virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid Act of

Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there is hereby reserved

from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain

tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the Territory of New

Mexico and. within the boundaries particularly described as follows, to -wit :

Description .

Beginning at a point on the boundary line between New Mexico and Arizona

Ante, p. 3123. where it is intersected by the north line of Township five ( 5 ) South, Range

twenty-one (21 ) West, New Mexico Principal Meridian, New Mexico ; thence

easterly along the township line to the north-east corner of Township five (5 )

South, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence southerly along the range line between

Ranges fifteen ( 15 ) and sixteen ( 16 ) West, to the south-east corner of Town-

ship eight ( 8 ) South, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence easterly along the

township line to the north-east corner of Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range fif-

teen (15 ) West ; thence southerly along the range line to the south-east corner

of said township ; thence easterly along the township line to the north-east cor-

ner of Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range ten . ( 10 ) West ; thence southerly along

the First Guide Meridian West, between Ranges nine ( 9) and ten ( 10 ) West,

to its intersection with the Third ( 3rd ) Standard Parallel South, between Town-

ships fifteen ( 15 ) and sixteen (16 ) South ; thence westerly along the said Third

(3rd ) Standard Parallel South to the south-west corner of Township fifteen

(15 ) South, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence northerly along the range line to

the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly along the township line

to the north-east corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) South,' Range nineteen ( 19 )

West ; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the Third

(3rd) Standard Parallel South ; thence westerly along the Third ( 3rd ) Stand-

ard Parallel South to its intersection with the boundary line between New Mex-

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905

3127

ico and Arizona ; thence northerly along said boundary line to the point where it Intersects the north line of Township five ( 5 ) South, Range twenty-one (21 )

West, the place of beginning.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may Lands excepted.

have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by

any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon

which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory

period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; Provided,

that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under

which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning

is

hereby

expressly

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

settlement

upon

Reserved settlement.

from

the tract of land reserved by this proclamation.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this second day of March, in the year of our

Lord one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine, and of the Inde-

[ SEAL. ] pendence of the United States the one hundred and twenty-third.

WILLIAM MCKINLEY

By the President : JOHN HAY

Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 21, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS , the Payson Forest Reserve, in the State of Utah, was Payson Forest Reserve, Utah.
established by proclamation dated August third, nineteen hundred Preambblle. and one, under and by virtue of section twenty- four of the Act of Vol. 32, p. 1985 ;
Vol. 33, p. 2322.
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one, Vol . 26, p. 1103.

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the United States

may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Terri-

tory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public

lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President

shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reser-

vations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, Vol . 30, p. 36.

approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, entitled,

"An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the

Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hun-

dred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " the President

is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that

has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary

lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ", under which provision the boundary lines of the said forest

reserve were changed and the area thereof enlarged by proclamation Vol. 33, p. 2322. dated November fifth, nineteen hundred and three;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands lying and

being situate in the State of Utah, which are in part covered with

timber ;

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Area further tended .

ex-

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid Act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven,

do hereby make known and proclaim that the aforesaid Payson Forest Reserve is hereby further enlarged to include the said addi-

3128 ... Description.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.
tional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are, accordingly, changed to read as follows :
Beginning at the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section four (4 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) South , Range three ( 3 ) East ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Second ( 2nd ) Standard Parallel South, to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said
township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Township thirteen ( 13) South, Range two (2) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-four (24) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of the south-east quarter of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of the north -east quarter of the south-west quarter of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south -west quarter of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of
Section two ( 2 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section five (5 ) , said township , the place of beginning ;
And further beginning at the north-east corner of Section eight (8) , Township thirteen (13) South, Range two (2) East, Salt Lake Meridian, Utah ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the north-west quarter of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the south - west quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of Section three ( 3 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section thirtyfour (34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range one (1 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty (20 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3129

north-west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence easterly Payson Forest Reserve --- Contin-
to the south-east corner of the south- west quarter of Section five ( 5 ) , ued. said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the northeast quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner : of the south-west quarter of the south-east quarter of Section thirtysix (36) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of the north-east quarter of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 )

South, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eight (8 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range two ( 2 )

East, the place of beginning ; Such of the above-named corners as have not been established by

the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where

such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions

indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all

persons

not to make

settle- Reserved settlement.

from

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 21st day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

July 22, 1905.

WHEREAS ,

it

is

provided

by

section

twenty-four

of

the

Act

of Short Pine Forest Reserve, S. Dak.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, en-

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103

titled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ",

"That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered

with timber or dndergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation ,

declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of South Dakota , within

the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and

3130

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

it appears that the pubic good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation ; Forest reserve,

South Dakota.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United '

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

Description.

land lying and being situate in the State of South Dakota and particularly described as follows :
In Township sixteen ( 16 ) North, Range two (2 ) East, the south-

west quarter of the south-west quarter of Section two (2 ) , the south

half of the south-east quarter and the west half of Section three (3 ) ,

Sections four (4 ) and five ( 5 ) , the east half of the north-west quarter,

the east half of the south-west quarter, and the east half of Section

six ( 6 ) , the east half of the north-east quarter of Section seven (7) ,

the north half of Section eight ( 8 ) , Sections nine (9) and ten ( 10) ,

the west half of the north-west quarter and the west half of the southwest quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , the west half of the north -east

quarter, the west half of the south -east quarter and the west half of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Section fifteen ( 15 ) , the north half of the north-west quarter and the east half of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , the north half of Section twenty-two (22) and the north -west quarter of Section twenty-three (23 ) ; in Township seventeen ( 17) North, Range two ( 2) East, Sections eighteen ( 18) and nineteen (19 ) , the south-west quarter of the south-east quarter, the west half of the north-west quarter, the south-east quarter of the south- west quarter and the west half of the south- west quarter of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , Section

twenty-eight (28 ) , the south half of Section twenty-nine (29) , Sections thirty (30 ) , thirty- one (31 ) , thirty-two (32 ) and thirty-three (33) , and the north-east quarter and the west half of Section thirtyfour (34) ;

Also ; in Township sixteen ( 16 ) North, Range three (3) East, Sec-

tions one ( 1 ) , two ( 2 ) and three ( 3 ) , the east half of the north-west

quarter, the east half of the south- west quarter and the east half of

Section ten ( 10 ) , Sections eleven ( 11 ) , twelve ( 12 ) , thirteen ( 13 ) and

fourteen ( 14 ) , the east half of the north- west quarter and the north-

east quarter of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , the north half of Section twenty-

three (23 ) and the north-west quarter of Section twenty-four ( 24 ) ;

in Township seventeen ( 17 ) North, Range three (3 ) East, the west

half of the south- east quarter and the south-west quarter of Section

twenty-five (25 ) and the west half of the north-east quarter, the west

half of the south- east quarter and the west half of Section thirty-six

(36) ; in Township sixteen ( 16 ) North, Range four (4 ) East, the

Lands excepted.

west half of Sections six ( 6 ) seven ( 7 ) and eighteen ( 18 ) ; all of the Black Hills Meridian, South Dakota ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved , from Bettlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set-

Name.

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Short

Pine Forest Reserve.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 22d day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

3131

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

July 25, 1905.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Con- Garden City Forest Reserve, Kans.
gress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one, enti- Preamble
Vol. 26, p. 1103. tled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ",

That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bear-

ing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered

with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as

public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Kansas, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Now,

therefore ,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Forest Kansas.

reserve,

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Kansas, and within the

boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26 )

Description.

Township twenty- four (24 ) South, Range thirty-three (33 ) West ,

Sixth ( 6th ) Principal Meridian, Kansas ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section twelve ( 12) , Township twenty- ave ( 25 )

South, Range thirty-three (33 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- east corner

of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section fourteen

(14) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said

section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section twenty-

two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of

said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section five (5 ) , Township twenty-six ( 26 ) South , Range

thirty-three, ( 33 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

Section seven (7) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north- east corner of

Section thirty-six ( 36) , Township twenty- six (26 ) South, Range

thirty-four (34 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of

3132

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , Township

twenty-seven (27) South, Range thirty-three ( 33 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eight (8 ) , Town-

ship twenty seven (27) South, Range thirty- four (34) West ; thence
northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section four (4) , Township twenty- seven

(27) South, Range thirty-six ( 36 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , Township twenty-six (26 ) South,

Range thirty-six (36) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27) ; said township ; thence northerly to the north-east

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence easterly to the southwest corner of Section eighteen ( 18) , Township twenty-six (26 ) South, Range thirty- five ( 35) West ; thence northerly to the north- west cor-

ner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south- west corner of Section five (5) .

said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , Township twenty-five (25 ) South, Range thirty-four ( 34) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the southwest corner of Section twenty -one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section

thirty-two ( 32 ) , Township twenty- four ( 24) South, Range thirtythree (33 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty -eight (28) , said township, thence easterly to the north- east corner of Sec-

Lands excepted . tion twenty-six (26) , said township, the place of beginning ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set-

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

Name.

The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Garden

City Forest Reserve.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .
Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

3133

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

July 25, 1905.

WHEREAS, The Sierra Forest Reserve, in the State of California, esTt hReeserSviee,rrCaalF. or-

was established by proclamation dated February fourteenth, eighteen Preamble.

hundred and ninety -three, under and by virtue of section twenty-

Vol. 27, p. 1059. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hun-

dred and ninety-one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws,

and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the

United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of

the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or under-

growth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations ,

and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the boundary lines of the said forest reserve were

changed and enlarged by the Act of Congress, approved February Vol . 33, p. 702.

seventh, nineteen hundred and five, entitled, "An Act To exclude from the Yosemite National Park, California, certain lands therein

described, and to attach and include the said lands in the Sierra

Forest Reserve " ; And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, ap- Vol. 30, p. 36.

proved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Gov-

ernment for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is

hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that

has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve,

and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary

lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ; which authority to change the boundary lines of

forest reserves by Executive proclamation was extended, by the

aforesaid act of Congress, approved February seventh, nineteen hun-

dred and five, to the lands thereby included in and made a part of the Sierra Forest Reserve ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by including within the said forest reserve certain additional lands in the State of California which are in part covered with timber ;
Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Area modified.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid acts of

Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the said Sierra Forest Reserve are hereby further changed so as to read as follows :

3134 Description.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.
Beginning at the north-west corner of Township two (2) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian, California; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township one (1) North, Range eighteen (18 ) East ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the northeast corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range seventeen ( 17 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twentythree ( 23 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Base Line, to the southwest corner of the north-west quarter of Section seven (7 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range seventeen ( 17) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty (20 ) , said township; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the township line, to the south-west corner of Section ten ( 10) , Township two (2 ) South, Range seventeen ( 17 ) East ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section thirteen , said township ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township three (3 ) South, Range eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the south-west quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the south-west quarter of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Township four (4) South, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township five ( 5 ) South, Range twenty ( 20 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township six ( 6 ) South , Range twenty-one (21 ) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section six (6) , Township seven (7 ) South, Range twenty-one ( 21 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-five (25) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range twenty-two ( 22 ) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3135

Sierra Forest Re township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township serve- Continued. nine ( 9) South, Range twenty-three (23 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-nine (29) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township. ten ( 10 ) South, Range twenty- four (24 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the northwest corner of Section four (4 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range twenty-five ( 25) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South , Range twenty-five ( 25 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range twenty-six (26 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range twenty- six ( 26 ) East ; thence southerly to the northwest corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly along the township line to its intersection with the western boundary of the General Grant National Park ; thence in a northerly, easterly, southerly and westerly direction along the boundary of said park to its intersection with the range line between Ranges twenty- seven
(27 ) and twenty-eight (28 ) East ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range twenty-eight (28 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three (3 ) , Township fifteen ( 15) South, Range twenty-eight (28 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township sixteen ( 16 ) South, Range twenty-eight ( 28 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly along the section lines to the point of intersection with the western boundary of the Sequoia National Park ; thence, in a northerly, easterly, southerly, easterly, southerly and westerly direction along the boundary of said park to the north- west corner of Township nineteen ( 19 ) South, Range thirty (30 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township twenty (20 ) South, Range twenty-nine (29 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township twenty-one ( 21 ) South, Range thirty ( 30 ) East ; thence southerly along the range line to its intersection with the northern boundary of the Tule River Indian Reservation ; thence, in a general northeasterly, southerly and westerly direction along the boundary of said reservation to its intersection with the range line between Ranges twenty-nine (29 ) and thirty (30) East ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Township twenty- four ( 24 ) South, Range thirty (30) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said township : thence westerly to the northwest corner of Township twenty-five (25) South, Range thirty- one (31 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Township twenty-six (26 ) South , Range thirty (30 ) East ; thence westerly to

3136

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

serSvieerraCoFnotriensutedR.e- the south- west corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township twenty-eight (28 ) South, Range thirty ( 30 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Township twenty-nine (29 ) South, Range thirty-one (31 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township twenty-nine (29) South , Range thirty-two ( 32 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township twenty-nine ( 29 ) South, Range thirty-three ( 33 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , Township twenty-nine (29) South, Range thirty-three and one-half ( 33 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township twenty-nine ( 29 ) South, Range thirty- four ( 34 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township twenty -eight (28) South, Range thirty-seven ( 37 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Township twenty-five (25) South, Range thirtyseven (37 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township twenty- four (24 ) South, Range thirty-seven (37) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township twenty-three ( 23) South, Range thirty-seven (37 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Township twenty-one (21 ) South, Range thirty-seven (37 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , Township twenty ( 20) South, Range thirty-seven (37 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township nineteen ( 19 ) South, Range thirtysix ( 36 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the northeast quarter of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the north -east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-five ( 25) , Township eighteen ( 18 ) South, Range thirty-six (36 ) East ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of the south-west quarter of Section twelve (12 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township seventeen ( 17 ) South, Range thirty- six (36) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the northeast quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of Section two (2) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-six (36) , Township sixteen ( 16 ) South, Range thirty- five ( 35 ) East ; thence north-
erly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3137

Sierra Forest Renorth-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east serve Continued. corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) South, Range thirtyfive ( 35 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of Township fourteen ( 14 ) South, Range thirty- four (34) East ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section thirtyfive (35) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South , Range thirty-four (34) East; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the south- east quarter of Section thirty-four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section twenty-seven ( 27) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of west lot one ( 1 ) in Section two (2 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said lot ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of the west half of east lot six ( 6) in såid- section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range thirty- four (34 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east
corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the northeast quarter of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north- west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township eleven ( 11) South, Range thirty- four ( 34) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township ten ( 10) South, Range thirty-three (33 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range thirty-three (33 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range thirtythree (33 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty ( 20) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Township eight (8) South, Range thirty-two (32) East ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township seven (7 ) South, Range thirty-two (32 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township seven ( 7) South, Range thirty-one ( 31 ) East ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence northerly. to the north-east corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , Township six (6 ) South, Range thirty-one (31 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence

3138

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

serSvieerraCoFnotriensutedRe. - northerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township five (5 ) South, Range thirty-one ( 31 ) East ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township : thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtyfour (34 ) , Township four ( 4 ) South, Range thirty-one ( 31 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty -one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township four (4) South, Range thirty ( 30 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtysix (36), Township four (4 ) South, Range twenty-nine (29) East ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , Township three ( 3) South, Range twentyeight ( 28 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township two (2 ) South, Range twenty -eight ( 28 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty ( 30) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of section four (4) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range twenty-six ( 26 ) East ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Base Line, to the north-east corner of Section seventeen (17) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range twenty- six ( 26 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Township two ( 2) North, Range twenty-five (25 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Township two ( 2 ) North, Range twenty - four ( 24 ) East ; thence westerly along the township line to its intersection with the eastern boundary of the Yosemite National Park; thence in a general southeasterly, southwesterly, westerly and northwesterly direction along the boundary of said park to its intersection with the township line between Townships two ( 2 ) and three (3 ) North ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township two (2 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

3139

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set- settlement.

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five , and of
[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES .

July 31, 1905 .

A PROCLAMATION
Uintah Indian Whereas, on June 7, 1905, the Secretary of the Interior directed Reservation , Utah. the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to cause to be selected, by the Preamble.
Ante, p. 3122. Uintah Allotment Commission, one or more tracts of land , suitable for townsite purposes, in the Uintah Indian Reservation Lands, State of Utah, to the end that the same might be reserved under the provisions of section 2380 of the Revised Statutes of the United States ; R. S., sec. 2380,
p. 436. And whereas, on July 6, 1905, the Acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs reported that said commission had selected, as suitable for townsite purposes and as natural and prospective centers of population, certain described lands which he recommended be reserved
under the provisions of said section 2380 ; And whereas, on July 7, and 27, 1905, the Department of the
Interior approved said selection and recommendation so far as it related to the following described lands in the Uintah land district,
Utah, and has requested that they be reserved for townsites to be created under existing statute, to-wit :
Lands designated Lots four, six, and seven , the southwest quarter of the northeast quar- for townsites. ter, the south half of the northwest quarter, the southwest quarter, and the west half of the southeast quarter of section twenty-five, lot two, the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter, and the east half of the southeast quarter of section twenty-six, in township three south of range two west of the Uintah special meridian ; Also the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section thirty-six, in township three south of range five west, the north half, and the north half of the south half of section one, the east half of
the northeast quarter, and the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section two, in township four south of range five west of the Uintah special meridian.
And also the south half of the northeast quarter, the southeast quar-
ter, and the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section VOL XXXIV, PT 3--20

3140

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

seven, and the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section

eighteen, in township three south of range two east of the Uintah

special meridian ;

Townsites re- Now therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United served .

R. S. , secs. 2380, States, by virtue of the power in me vested by sections 2380 and 2381

2381, p. 436.

of the Revised Statutes of the United States, do hereby declare and

make known that said lands are hereby reserved as townsites, to be

disposed of by the United States under the terms of the statutes

applicable thereto.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 31st day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth . T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

August 2, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Uintah Indian Reservation, Utah.

WHEREAS, it was declared in my proclamation of July 14, in the

Preamble.

year of our Lord 1905, prescribing the manner in which certain lands

within the Uintah Indian Reservation should be opened to settlement and entry under the homestead and townsite laws of the United

States, among other things as follows :

Ante, p. 3121.

Commencing on Monday, August 28, 1905, at 9 o'clock a. m., the applications of those drawing numbers 1 to 50, inclusive, must be presented at the land office in the town of Vernal, Utah, in the land district in which said lands are situated, and will be considered in their numerical order during the first day, and the applications of those drawing numbers 51 to 100, inclusive, must be presented and will be considered in their numerical order during the second day, and so on at that rate until all of said lands subject to entry under the homestead law, and desired thereunder, have been entered. If any applicant fails to appear and present his application for entry when the number assigned to him by the drawing is reached, his right to enter will be passed until after the other applications assigned for that day have been disposed of, when he will be given another opportunity to make entry, failing in which he will be deemed to have abandoned his right to make entry under such drawing.

And, whereas, there now appear to be ample reasons for a modification of said provision ; Modifying provi- Now therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United sions for drawings. States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by said act of
Congress, and for the purpose of modifying the provision of said proclamation above quoted, do hereby declare and direct that said provision be modified to read as follows :

Commencing on Monday, August 28, 1905, at 9 o'clock a. m., the applications of those drawing numbers 1 to 111 , inclusive, must be presented at the land office in the town of Vernal, Utah, in the land district in which said lands are situated, and will be considered in their numerical order during the first day, and the applications of those drawing numbers 112 to 222, inclusive, must be presented and will be considered in their numerical order during the second day, and so on at that rate antil all of said lands subject to entry under the homestead law, and desired thereunder, have been entered. If any applicant fails to appear and present his application for entry when the number assigned to him by the drawing is reached, his right to enter will be passed until after the other applications assigned for that day have been disposed of, when he will be given another opportunity to make entry, failing in which he will be deemed to have abandoned his right to make entry under such drawing.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

[ SEAL. ]

Done at the city of Washington this 2d day of August. in the year of our Lord 1905, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

3141

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

August 3, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

it

is

provided

by

the

act

of

Congress

approved

March

Uintah Reservation,

Indian Utah.

3, 1905 , entitled , "An act making appropriations for the current and

Preamble. Vol. 33, p. 1070.

contingent expenses of the Indian Department and for fulfilling Ante, p. 3119.

treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes for the fiscal year end-

ing June thirtieth, nineteen hundred and six, and for other pur-

poses ", that " Before the opening of the Uintah Indian Reservation, the President is hereby authorized to set apart and reserve any reser-

voir site or other lands necessary to conserve the water supply for the Indians or for general agricultural development, and may con-

firm such rights and water thereon as have already accrued ";

And whereas, it is considered necessary to serve the purposes of

the act referred to that certain lands in the Uintah Indian Reserva-

tion be withdrawn for the purposes indicated ;

Now therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

reserved United for Indians.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid act of Congress, approved March third, nineteen hundred and five , do

hereby make known and proclaim that certain lands in the Uintah Indian Reservation are hereby withdrawn from disposal, for reser-

voir site necessary to conserve the water supply for the Indians, or for general agricultural development, the following described lands :

AGRICULTURAL :

Agricultural lands.

All Sections thirty-two (32) , thirty-three (33 ) and thirty- four (34 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range five (5 ) West ; all Sections two ( 2 ) , three ( 3 ) , four (4 ) , ten ( 10 ) , eleven ( 11 ) , twelve ( 12 ) , thirteen (13) , fourteen ( 14 ) , fifteen ( 15 ) , south half of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , south- west quarter of Section seventeen ( 17) , and all Sections eighteen ( 18) to thirty-six ( 36 ) inclusive, Township two (2 ) South , Range one ( 1 ) West ; south half of north- east quarter, south half of northwest quarter, south- west quarter and south-east quarter of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , south half of north-east quarter, south half of north-west quarter, south-west quarter and south- east quarter of Section twenty-six (26 ) , north-east quarter, north-west quarter, north half of south- west quarter and north half of south-east quarter of Section thirty-five ( 35) , and all of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township two (2 ) South, Range three (3 ) West ; all Sections three (3 ) to eleven ( 11 ) , inclusive, all Sections fourteen (14 ) to thirty-two (32) , inclusive, and west half of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township two (2) South, Range four (4) West; all Sections one ( 1 ) , two ( 2 ) , three (3 ) , four (4 ) , nine (9) , ten ( 10 ) , eleven ( 11 ) , and north half of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , Township two ( 2 ) South, Range five ( 5 ) West ;

3142 Reservoir site.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.
south half of north-east quarter, north-west quarter, south-east quar-
ter, south -west quarter of Section three ( 3 ) , all Sections four (4) , five (5 ) , six ( 6 ) , seven ( 7 ) , eight ( 8 ) , and west half of Section nine ( 9) , Township three ( 3) South, Range one (1 ) West ; all Sections one ( 1 ) , two (2 ) , three (5 ) , four (4) and five ( 5) , east half of northeast quarter, south half of south-east quarter, and south-west quarter of Section six ( 6 ) , north half of Section seven ( 7 ) , north half of Section eight ( 8 ) , all Sections nine (9 ) , ten ( 10) , eleven ( 11 ) and twelve ( 12 ) , Township three (3 ) South, Range two (2) West ; south half of section one (1 ) and all Section eighteen ( 18) , Township three (3 ) South, Range three (3 ) , West ; all Sections three ( 3 ) , four ( 4) , five (5 ) , six ( 6 ) , seven ( 7 ) , eight ( 8 ) , nine ( 9 ) , ten ( 10) , Sections thirteen ( 13 ) to twenty-three (23 ) , inclusive, Township three ( 3) South, Range four (4) West ; west half of north-east quarter, northwest quarter, west half of south - east quarter, south- west quarter of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , and all Sections eighteen ( 18 ) and nineteen ( 19) , Township two ( 2) South, Range one ( 1 ) East ; south -east quarter, south half of south-west quarter of Section twenty-three (23) , south-east quarter and south half of south- west quarter of Section twenty-four ( 24 ) , and all Sections twenty-five (25) , twenty- six (26 ) and thirty- six ( 36 ) , Township three ( 3 ) South, Range one ( 1 ) East ; all Sections twenty-nine (29) , thirty-one (31 ) and thirty- two ( 32 ) , south half of Section thirty ( 30 ) and west half of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township three ( 3 ) South, Range two (2 ) East ; all Sections four ( 4 ) , five (5 ) and nine ( 9 ) , west half of Section ten ( 10) , all Section fifteen ( 15 ) , east half of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , north half of Section twenty-two (22) , north-west quarter, south- west quarter and south - east quarter of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , north - west quarter of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) and north-east quarter of Section twenty-six (26 ) , Township four ( 4 ) South, Range two (2 ) east ; all Sections twenty-five (25) , twenty-six (26) , twenty-seven (27) , twenty-eight ( 28 ) , South half of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , south half of Section thirty (30) , and all Sections thirty-one ( 31 ) to thirtysix (36 ) , inclusive, Township two ( 2 ) South, Range two ( 2 ) West ; all Uintah Special Meridian. RESERVOIR :

Post, p. 3143.

All Section eighteen ( 18) , Township two (2 ) North, Range five

(5 ) West ; west half of north-west quarter, and north- west quarter of south-west quarter of Section six ( 6 ) , east half of Section twelve

( 12 ) , north-east quarter of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township two (2) North, Range six ( 6 ) West ; east half of Section one ( 1 ) , Township

two (2 ) North, Range seven ( 7) West ; south- west quarter of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range six (6 ) West ; all of Township two (2) South, Bange eleven ( 11 ) West ; all of Town-

ship three (3 ) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; all of Township four (4) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; all of Township two (2 ) South,

Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; all of Township three ( 3 ) South, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; all of Township four (4) South, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; north-east quarter, east half of north-west quarter, east

half of south-west quarter, north half of south- east quarter and south-

east quarter of south-east quarter of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , Lots three (3 ) and four (4 ) , Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , Lots one ( 1 ) and

two ( 2 ) of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , east half of north-east quarter, south- west quarter of north-east quarter, and east half of north- west

Reserved settlement.

quarter of Section twenty -eight (28 ) , Township two ( 2 ) South,
Range one ( 1 ) East ; all Uintah Special Meridian . froin Warning is expressly given to all persons not to make settlement
upon the lands reserved by this Proclamation.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the city of Washington this 3d day of August in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred. and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

3143

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

August 14, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

Uintah Indian

WHEREAS , it is believed that the following described lands , Reservation, Utah.

to-wit :

Preamble.

Lands designated

Lots three, five, and eight, of section twenty-five, and lot one of sec- for townsites.

tion twenty-six, in township three south, of range two west of the

Uintah special meridian ; and also the southwest quarter of southwest quarter of section nineteen, the northwest quarter of section twentynine, and the north half of section thirty, in township three south, of range one west of the Uintah special meridian, in the State of Utah, situate adjacent to other lands in said reservation which were reserved Ante, p. 3139. by my proclamation of July 31 , in the year of our Lord 1905, are natural and prospective centers of population :
Now therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Additional town- sites reserved . States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the act of Vol 33, p. 1069.

Congress, entitled "An act making appropriations for the current

and contingent expenses of the Indian Department and for fulfilling

the treaty stipulations with various Indian tribes for the fiscal year

ending June thirty, nineteen hundred and six, and for other purposes," approved March 3, 1905, and by sections 2380 and 2381 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, do hereby declare and make
known that the lands above described are hereby reserved as townsites, to be disposed of by the United States under the terms of the

R. S. secs . 2381, p. 436.

2380,

Statutes applicable thereto, in connection with other lands reserved Ante, p. 3139.

for that purpose by my said proclamation of July 31 , 1905.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the city of Washington, this fourteenth day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL. ] five, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. T. ROOSEVELT
· By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

August 14, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.
Uintah Indian WHEREAS , it has been determined that only that portion of the Reservation, Utah. lands reserved by my proclamation of August 3 , 1905, hereinafter Preamble.
Ante, p. 3142. described , situated in the Uintah Indian Reservation, in the State of

3144

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

Utah, is required for reservoir sites and to conserve and protect the
water supply, for the purposes specified in the act of Congress apVol. 33, p. 1070. proved March 3, 1905 (33 Stat. , 1070 ) , to-wit : Reservoir site re- All of sections eighteen ( 18 ) , nineteen ( 19) , twenty-nine ( 29 ) , duced.
thirty (30) , thirty-one ( 31 ) , and thirty-two (32) , in Township two
(2 ) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; all of Township three ( 3 ) South,

Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; all of sections one ( 1 ) , to and including section twenty- four ( 24 ) , and all of sections twenty-six to and including section thirty-two ( 32 ) , in Township four (4) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; all of sections one ( 1 ) , two ( 2 ) , three ( 3 ) , ten (10) , eleven ( 11 ) , twelve ( 12 ) , thirteen ( 13 ) , fourteen ( 14 ) , fifteen

(15 ) , twenty-two ( 22 ) , twenty-three ( 23 ) , twenty-four ( 24 ) , twentyfive (25 ) , twenty-six (26 ) , twenty-seven (27) , thirty-four (34) , thirty-five (35 ) , and thirty-six ( 36) , in Township two ( 2 ) South, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; and all of sections one ( 1 ) , two (2 ) , and twelve ( 12 ) , in Township three ( 3 ) South, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; Lands withdrawn all in Uintah Special Meridian . from reservoir site Now therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United rsetsattuosre. d to former States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by said act, do hereby make known and proclaim that all lands embraced in my

said proclamation of August 3 , 1905, saving and excepting those hereinbefore described, are hereby excluded and withdrawn from the

effects of said proclamation and are hereby restored to the status they

occupied prior to their reservation for said purposes. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington this fourteenth of August , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,

[ SEAL . ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth .

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

T. ROOSEVELT

Acting Secretary of State.

August 25, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Holy Cross For-

est Reserve, Colo.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty-four of the act of

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, en-

Post, p. 3286. titled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ",

" That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set

apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Colorado, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation :

Forest reserve, Colorado.

Now therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3145

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Colorado, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , Township two ( 2 ) South, Range eighty-two ( 82 ) West , Sixth (6th) Principal Meridian, Colorado ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section ten ( 10) , Township two (2 ) South , Range eighty-one (81 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -west corner of Section two (2 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Township three (3 ) South, Range eighty ( 80 ) West ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township five (5) South, Range seventy-nine ( 79) West ; thence easterly along the First (1st) Correction Line South to the north-west corner of Township six ( 6) South, Range seventy-nine ( 79 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range eighty ( 80) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range eighty-one ( 81 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Township ten ( 10) South, Range eightytwo ( 82 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Second (2nd) Correction Line South, to the north-east corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South , Range eighty-three ( 83 ) West ; thence westerly along the township line to the north-west corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South , Range eighty-eight ( 88 ) West ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Second ( 2nd) Correction Line South, to the north-east corner of Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range eighty-nine ( 89 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section two (2) , Township nine (9) South, Range eightyseven (87) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township nine ( 9) South, Range eighty - six ( 86 ) West ; thence southerly to the south - east corner of Section four (4) , Township ten ( 10) South, Range eighty-six (86) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section ten ( 10) , Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range eighty-five (85) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty (20) , Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range eighty- four ( 84) West; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36) , Township nine ( 9 ) South , Range eighty-five ( 85 ) West ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said: section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section two (2) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range eighty-six West ; thence northerly to the south- east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township seven (7) South, Range eighty-seven (87 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner

Description.

3146

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

estHolRyeseCrvoes-s CFonr- of Township six ( 6 ) South, Range eighty-six ( 86 ) West ; thence

tinued.

easterly along the First ( 1st ) Correction Line South to the south-

west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township five ( 5 ) South,

Range eighty-three ( 83 ) West ; thence northerly to the north - west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , Township five

(5 ) South, Range eighty-one ( 81 ) West ; thence southerly to the

south- east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-six, said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -west corner of Section six (6) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , Township four (4) South, Range eightytwo (82 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section

twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of

Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section nineteen (19 ) , Township three (3 ) South, Range eighty -two ( 82 ) West ; thence easterly to the south -west corner of section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north-west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence west-

erly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-two (32) , Township two (2 ) South, Range eighty-two (82 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township , the

place of beginning ;

Also, all Township three (3 ) South, Range eighty- four ( 84 ) West ; Such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where

Lands excepted .

such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

Reserved settlement.
Name.

from

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Holy Cross Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Acting Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3147

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

September 25 , 1905 .

A PROCLAMATION.

Dixie Forest Re-

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the act of serve, Utah.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

Preamble. Vol . 26, p. 1103 .

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses 9 " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Utah, within the

limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Now

therefore ,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of

the

United

Forest reserve , Utah .

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four

of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and pro-

claim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set

apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Utah, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) South, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West, Salt Lake Meridian, Utah ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Township thirty-nine (39 ) South, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section four ( 4 ) , Township forty ( 40) South , Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Township forty (40) South, Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence westerly along the Eighth ( 8th ) Standard Parallel South, allowing for the proper offset , to the south-west corner of Township forty ( 40 ) South, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the boundary line between the States of Nevada and Utah ; thence northerly along said state boundary line

Description.

to the township line between Townships thirty-six ( 36 ) and thirtyseven (37) South ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Township thirty-seven (37 ) South, Range nineteen (19 ) West ; thence

southerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township thirty-seven (37) South, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty -four (24 ) , Township thirty-seven ( 37 ) South, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence

southerly to the south- west corner of Township thirty-seven ( 37 ) South, Range fifteen ( 15 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east

corner of Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) South, Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) South, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen (17) , said township, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting

3148

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any

irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ; Lands excepted. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set-

Name.

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Dixie For-

est Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and

[SEAL . ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. T. ROOSEVELT
By the President : FRANCIS B. LOOMIS

Acting Secretary of State.

October 3, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Madison Forest

Reserve, Mont.

WHEREAS , The Madison Forest Reserve, in the State of Mon-

Preamble.

tana, was established by proclamation dated August sixteenth, nine-

Vol. 32, p. 2024.

Ante, p. 2995. teen hundred and two, under and by virtue of section twenty- four of

Vol. 26, p. 1103. the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and

ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the United

States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the

public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the

Vol. 30, p. 36.

President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;
And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, ap-

Ante, p. 2995.

proved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that the President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ", under which provision the boundary lines of the said forest reserve were changed and the area thereof reduced by proclamation dated March twenty-eighth , nineteen hundred and five ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by including within the said forest reserve certain additional lands, within the State of Montana , which are in part covered with timber ;

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3149

Now therefore,

I, Theodore Roosevelt,

President of the United Boundarles larged.

en .

States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the aforesaid Madison Forest Reserve are hereby so changed and

enlarged as to read as follows :

Beginning at the point where the western boundary of the Yel- Description.

lowstone National Park intersects the boundary line between the States of Montana and Idaho ; thence in a general north- westerly

and south-westerly direction along said state boundary line to its intersection with the range line between Ranges one ( 1 ) and two

(2 ) East ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Township

thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the south-

east corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range one ( 1 ) West ;

thence westerly to the south -east corner of Township twelve ( 12 )

South, Range six (6 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range five (5 ) West ; thence north-

erly, allowing for the proper offset on the Second (2nd ) Standard

Parallel South, to the north-west corner of Township ten ( 10 ) South,

Range four (4 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of

Section thirty- three (33 ) , Township nine (9 ) South, Range four

(4) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section fif-

teen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner

of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , Township seven (7 ) South, Range

three (3 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-

west corner of Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range one ( 1 ) West ;

thence southerly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of said township ; thence southerly

along the Principal Meridian to its intersection with the Second

(2nd) Standard Parallel South ; thence easterly along said parallel to its intersection with the western boundary of the Yellowstone

National Park ; thence southerly along the western boundary of said park to its intersection with the boundary line between the States of Montana and Idaho, the place of beginning ;

And further beginning at the north- west corner of Section twenty-

six (26) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range three ( 3 ) West, Principal Meridian, Montana ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said

section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-

five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township two (2) South, Range three (3)

West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-

two (22 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Section twenty - five ( 25) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-

west corner of Township two ( 2) South, Range two (2 ) West ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , Town-

ship three (3 ) South, Range two (2 ) West ; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of Section nine ( 9) , Township five ( 5 ) South,

Range two ( 2 ) West ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section seven ( 7) , Township five ( 5 ) South, Range three ( 3 ) West ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Township five (5 ) South,

Range four (4) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of

3150 .

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ResMeardvieso-n ued .

CFoonrtiens-t Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , Township four (4 ) South, Range four (4) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen (16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , Township three ( 3 ) South, Range five (5 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township two ( 2 ) South , Range five ( 5 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18) , Township two (2) South, Range four (4 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said township : thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty ( 20) , Township one (1 ) South , Range four (4) West ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eight (8) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range three ( 3 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section, the place of beginning ; Such of the above-named corners as have not been established by

Lands excepted .

the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with

Reserved settlement.

the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make
settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and
[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

3151 October 3, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

it

is

provided

by

section

twenty- four

of the

Act

of

Big Belt Forest Reserve, Mont.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, Preamble.

Vol. 26, p . 1103.

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur- Post. p. 3283.

poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not , as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ":

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Montana , within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart and

reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve ,

Now, therefore , I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United MMontana.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the State of Montana, and within the

boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-east corner of Section five (5) , Township Description.

eight ( 8 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East , Principal Meridian, Montana ;

thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) ,

Township seven ( 7) North, Range five (5 ) East ; thence easterly to

the north- east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Town-

ship (6 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly

to the south-east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ;

thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34) ,

Township six (6 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence southerly to

the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of Section three (3 ) , Township five ( 5 ) North , Range four (4 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the south- east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twelve (12) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the northwest quarter of Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of the north- east quarter of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township five (5 ) North, Range six ( 6) East ; thence east-

erly to the north- east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -west

3152

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

Secti

ReBsiegrvBeel-t CoFnotriens-t corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence easterly to

East

ued.

the south-east corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ;

aste

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirteen ( 13) ,

said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;

then

thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) ,



said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said sec-

thir

tion ; thence southerly, allowing for the offset on the First ( 1st )

Corr

Standard Parallel North, to the south-east corner of Section two (2) ,

A (8

Township four (4 ) North, Range six (6 ) East ; thence westerly to

ther

the north-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence

erly

southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said township ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) ,

the

Township four (4 ) North, Range seven (7) East ; thence easterly to

Te

the south- east corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence

tov

northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty (20) , said town-

ship ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said

thi

township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-

the

SE

eight (28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner

of Section four (4 ) , Township three ( 3) North, Range seven (7)

tw

East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section nine (9 ) ,

00

said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section

to

eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of

Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-

east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24) , Township three ( 3 ) North,

D

Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Sec-

tion twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-

t

west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of Section two ( 2) , Township two ( 2 )

North, Range six (6 ) East ; thence southerly to the south -west corner

of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section seven (7) , Township two (2) North, Range seven (7 ) East ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section fif-

teen ( 15) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section fourteen (14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the southwest corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township two ( 2 ) North, Range eight: ( 8 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty ( 30) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirtysix (36 ) , Township two (2 ) North, Range seven (7) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section three (3) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range seven (7) East ; thence south-

erly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3153

Section nineteen ( 19) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) Big Belt Forest Reserve -Contin-
East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence ued. easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty-four (34) ,
said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range eight (8 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north -east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirtytwo ( 32) , said township ; thence. westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range seven (7) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-six ( 26) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range seven (7) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range seven (7) East ; thence southerly , to the south-east corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13) , Township . one (1 ) South, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section four ( 4 ) , said
township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirtytwo ( 32) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range six ( 6) East ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-two (32) , Township two (2 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence north-
erly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four (24) , Township two ( 2 ) North, Range five (5 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-
west corner of Section thirteen ( 13) , said, township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26) , Township three (3) North, Range five ( 5) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of Section three (3 ) , said

3154

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReBsiegrvBeel-t CFoonrteisnt- township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section thirty-

ued .

two ( 32 ) , Township four (4 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of Section eight ( 8) , said township ;

thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section five (5 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section six (6 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township five (5 )

North, Range six ( 6 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner

of Section twenty-five (25 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range five (5) East ; thence westerly to the north - west corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to

the north-west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the north- west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township four

(4 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east

corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

south - west corner of Section five (5 ) , Township four ( 4 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence northerly, allowing for the offset on the

First ( 1st ) Standard Parallel North, to the north-east corner of

Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township five (5) North, Range four (4)

East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen

(18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of

Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township five ( 5 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) East ;

thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section two

(2 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Sec-

tion thirty-five (35 ) , Township six ( 6 ) North, Range three ( 3 )

East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-

six (26 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of

Section twenty-one (21 ) , Township six (6 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section four (4 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-

three (33 ) , Township seven (7) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said

township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-

nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner

of Section six ( 6) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range four (4) East ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12) , Township

eight ( 8 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence northerly,

allowing for the offset on the Second (2nd ) Standard Parallel North ,

to the north-east corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , Township nine

(9 ) North , Range three (3 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west

corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence northerly

to the north-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ;

thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) ,

said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section

thirteen ( 13 ) , Township nine (9 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) North, Range two (2 ) East ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north- east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township ten ( 10) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence northerly

to the north- east corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Township ten ( 10 ) North,

Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of

vation 1 Wes
TO (32) tion orth-ea to p: th 2.T
vesterly Dence Festerl River: of the betweel 12) N ton li une (1
a channe ween two ( North Test North Der G the n easter Rang Secti West eight
Lort Sout ship Sout Dort ship the nor shi
the to
CO al to 0 C e S

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3155

Section thirty-three

( 33) ,

Township eleven

( 11 )

North,

Range one

Big Belt Forest Reserve -Contin-

( 1 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty- ued.

two ( 32) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of

Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the

north- east corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of Section twelve (12) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range two (2 ) West ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly along the township line to its intersection with the Missouri

River ; thence in a general northwesterly direction down the middle of the channel of said river to its intersection with the section line

between Sections eleven ( 11 ) and twelve ( 12) , Township twelve

( 12 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) West ; thence northerly along the section lines to the intersection of the section line between Sections

one ( 1 ) and two ( 2 ) , said township, with the said river ; thence a general northeasterly direction down the middle of the
channel of said river to its intersection with the range line between Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range two (2 ) West, and Section thirteen (13 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range three (3 ) West ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section five (5) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township fourteen ( 14) North, Range two ( 2 ) West; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty ( 30) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twentyeight (28) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-four (34) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14) , Township thirteen (13 ) North , Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section seven (7) , Township thirteen ( 13) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eighteen ( 18) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-nine (29 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33) , said township ; thence southerly, allowing for the offset on the Third ( 3rd ) Standard Parallel North, to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range two (2 ) East ; thence easterly to the north- east. corner of Section twenty-three (23) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township; thence easterly to the north - east corner of Section twenty- five (25) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18) , Township eleven (11 ) North, Range three (3) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty (20 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence south-

VOL XXXIV, PT 321

3156

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReBsiegrvBeel-t CFoonrteisnt- erly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township ten

ued.

( 10 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence easterly to the south- east

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of

Section thirty-two (32) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner

of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section

four (4 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) North , Range four (4) East ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said town-

ship ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , Township eight ( 8 )

North, Range five ( 5 ) East, the place of beginning ;

And further beginning at the south-east corner of Section twenty-

one (21 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North , Range four (4 ) East , Prin-

cipal Meridian, Montana ; thence westerly, allowing for the offset on the range line, to the south-west corner of Section twenty ( 20) ,

Township twelve ( 12 ) North , Range three ( 3) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section eight (8) , said township ;

thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section five (5) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4), said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of

Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range three (3 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Sec-

tion twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence easterly, allowing for the offset on the range line, to the north-east corner of Section

twenty-nine (29 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range four ( 4 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twentyeight (28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south- west corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township twelve (12 ) North, Range four (4 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen (15 ) , said township ; thence

westerly to the north west corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township : thence southerly to the south - east corner of Section

twenty-one (21 ) , said township , the place of beginning ; Such of the above-named corners as have not been established by

Lands excepted.

the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the

proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within

which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided,

Reserved settlement.
Name.

from

that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Big Belt Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.
Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,
[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

3157

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

October 3, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

Shasta Forest WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Reserve, Cal.
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.
entitled,66"An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur- Post, p. 3235. poses ", That the President of the United States may, from time

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having

public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commer-

cial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by

public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of California , within

the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting

apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve ,

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United California.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four

of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and pro-

claim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and

set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of California,

and within the boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-west corner of Section three (3 ) , Town-
ship forty-two (42 ) North, Range four (4 ) West, Mount Diablo

Description.

Base and Meridian, California ; thence easterly to the north -east

corner of said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner

of Section six (6 ) , Township forty-two ( 42 ) North, Range three

(3) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section three

(3) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-

four (34 ) , Township forty-three (43 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) West ;

thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty- seven

( 27) , said township ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of

Section twenty-three (23 ) , Township forty-three (43 ) North, Range

two (2 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-

three (23 ) , Township forty-three (43 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly

to the south- west corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township forty-two (42) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence southerly to the south - east

corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence westerly to

the north - west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29) , said

township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty-

3158

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

seSrhyaestaCoFnotriensutedRe. - six ( 36 ) , Township forty- two (42 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence southerly to the north - east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township forty-one ( 41 ) North, Range two (2 ) West ; thence southerly, allowing for the offset on the Eighth ( 8th ) Standard Parallel North, to the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township forty (40) North, Range two (2 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township forty (40) North, Range three (3 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township forty (40 ) North, Range four (4 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section two (2 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range four ( 4 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twentyeight (28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township forty- two (42 ) North, Range four (4 ) West, the place of beginning ; And further beginning at the north- east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township forty-one (41) North, Range five (5 ) West, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian, California ; thence southerly to the south - west corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , Township forty (40 ) / North, Range five ( 5 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen (16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section thirtyfour ( 34) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence southerly, allowing for the offset on the township line, to the south-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township thirty-nine (39 ) North, Range five (5 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township thirty-nine (39) North, Range four (4 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section , twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , Township thirty-eight (38) North, Range four (4 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty ( 30) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) North, Range five (5 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section two (2) , Township thirty- seven (37) North, Range five ( 5 ) West ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Seetion twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southeast corner of Section thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty - four (24 ) , Township thirty-seven ( 37 ) North, Range six ( 6) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty- six ( 26 ) , said ownship ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3159

Shasta Forest Retwo (2) , Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) West ; serve Continued. thence easterly to the north-west corner of Section seven (7) , Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five (5) , Township thirty-five (35) North, Range five (5 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-two (32) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of Section thirty- six (36 ) , Township thirty-five (35 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north - east corner of Section thirty- six ( 36) , Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North, Range seven ( 7) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township thirtyfour (34 ) North, Range seven ( 7) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , Township thirty- four ( 34 ) North , Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36) , Township thirty-four ( 34 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty- six (36) , Township thirty- four ( 34 ) North, Range ten ( 10) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section seven (7) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24) , Township thirty- four (34) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence
westerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section four (4) , Township thirtyfive (35 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence easterly to the
south- east corner of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , Township thirty- six (36) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section seven (7) , Township thirty-six ( 36 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-seven (27 ) , Township thirty-seven (37 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to

3160

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

seSrhvaestaCoFnotriensutedRe. - the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Township thirty-nine ( 39 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township forty (40 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence northerly to the north -east
corner of fractional Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the north -east corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , Township forty (40 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) West ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south - west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of
Section thirty-four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of Section thirty-three (33) , Township forty (40 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty- seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south -west corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township forty ( 40 ) North, Range seven (7) West ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of fractional Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township forty- one (41 ) North, Range seven (7) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twentyeight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south - west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , Township forty-one (41 ) North, Range six ( 6 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) .Township forty- one (41 ) North, Range five ( 5 ) West, the place of beginning ;
And further beginning at the north- west corner of Section twentynine ( 29 ) , Township thirty-nine ( 39 ) North , Range one ( 1 ) West, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian, California ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , Township thirty-nine ( 39 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-five ( 35) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , fractional Township thirty-eight (38 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence southerly to the north- west corner of Section thirtyfive (35 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township thirty-

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

3161

Shasta Forest Reseven (37) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence southerly to the serve-Continued. south-west corner of Township thirty-eight (38 ) North, Range two (2 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eight ( 8) , fractional Township thirty-seven (37 ) North, Range two (2 ) . East ; thence southerly to the north-west corner of Section twentyone ( 21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range two ( 2 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly, allowing for the offset on the range line, to the north-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty- five ( 35) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty- four (34) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-three (33) , Township thirty-seven ( 37 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south- west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , Township thirty- seven (37) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-four ( 34) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section three ( 3) , Township thirty-six (36 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly, allowing for the offset on the Seventh (7th ) Standard Parallel North, to the north- west corner of Section nine (9) , Township thirty-five (35 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section three (3) , Township thirty- four (34 ) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section nineteen (19) , Township thirty-four ( 34 ) North, Range two (2) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township thirty-five ( 35 ) North, Range three ( 3 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Section thirty-three ( 33) , said township ; thence northerly

3162

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

seSrhvaestCaoFnotriensutedR.e- to the south-west corner of Section sixteen (16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - east corner of Township thirty-six (36) North, Range four (4 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twelve (12 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township thirty- seven (37 ) North, Range four (4) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , Township thirty- eight (38 ) North, Range four (4) West ; thence easterly to the south - east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27) , said township; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section six (6) , Township thirty-eight ( 38 ) North, Range three (3 ) West ;
thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township thirty- nine (39) North, Range one ( 1 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township, the place of beginning ;
Such of the above-named corners as have not been established by

Lands excepted.

the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; Provided, that this

Reserved settlement.
Name.

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Shasta Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

3163 October 3, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

Tahoe Forest ReWHEREAS, the Lake Tahoe Forest Reserve, in the State of Cali- serve, Cal. and Nev.

fornia, was established by proclamation dated April thirteenth, eight-

Preamble. Vol. 31, p. 1953.

een hundred and ninety-nine, under and by virtue of section twenty- Vol. 26, p. 1103.

four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hun- Post, p. 3232.

dred and ninety-one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws,

and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of

the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in

any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or

undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reserva-

tions, and the President shall , by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, ap-

Vol. 30, p. 36.

proved June fourth , eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that the Presi-

dent is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any

order creating such reserve ";'
And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted
by including within the said forest reserve certain additional lands, within the States of California and Nevada, which are in part cov-
ered with timber ; Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Boundaries enlarged .
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the aforesaid Lake Tahoe Forest Reserve are hereby so changed and enlarged as to read as follows :
Beginning at the north-west corner of Township seventeen (17) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian, California ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township seventeen (17) North, Range seventeen (17) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township seventeen ( 17) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of Section four (4 ) , said township, in the State of Nevada ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence

Description.

easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , Township eighteen ( 18 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- seven (27 ) , Township

eighteen ( 18 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19) East ; thence southerly to the north- east corner of Section thirty- four (34) , Township seven-

teen ( 17 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of east lot two ( 2 ) in Section six (6) , Township sixteen (16 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty- one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Township fifteen ( 15)

North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-

3164

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

serTveahoCeonFtoirensutedR.e- east corner of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly along the Third ( 3rd ) Standard Parallel North to its intersection with the shore-line of
Lake Tahoe ; thence in a general northwesterly and southerly direction along said shore- line to the north-east corner of lot six ( 6 ) in Section twenty -two (22) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range seventeen ( 17 ) East, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian , California ; thence southeasterly in a direct line to the north-east corner of lot one ( 1 ) in said section ; thence in a general southeasterly direction along said shore-line to the point where it is intersected by the range line between Ranges seventeen ( 17 ) and eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- five (35 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of lot fourteen ( 14 ) in Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of lot three (3 ) in said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said lot ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirtytwo (32 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence northerly along the section line to its intersection with the shore- line of Lake Tahoe ; thence in a general northeasterly direc tion along said shore- line to the point where it is intersected by the boundary line between the States of California and Nevada ; thence in a general southeasterly direction along said state-boundary line to its intersection with the township line between Townships twelve (12 ) and thirteen ( 13 ) North ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section six (6) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East , Mount Diablo Base and Meridian, Nevada ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section eight ( 8) , said township ; thence southerly along the section lines to the point of intersection with the boundary line between the States of California and Nevada ; thence in a general southeasterly direction along said stateboundary line to its intersection with the section line between Sections twenty-six ( 26 ) and twenty-seven (27 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township eleven (11 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) East, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian, California ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range sixteen ( 16 ) East ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) . Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East ; thence northerly to the north - east corner of Section twenty- nine (29 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range fourteen (14 ) East ; thence westerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty-six (26) , Township thirteen (13 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3165

Tahoe Forest Renorth-west corner of Section four (4) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, serve- Continued. Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner
of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section

one ( 1 ) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the south- east corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner

of Section twenty-five (25 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south -east corner of Section twenty-three ( 23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly

to the south-east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , Township fourteen ( 14 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- seven (27) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section

nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section

six (6) , said township ; thence northerly to the south-east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , Township fifteen ( 15 ) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence easterly to the

south- west corner of Section thirty- four (34) , Township sixteen ( 16 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section

thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township seventeen (17) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East, the place of beginning ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

Lands-excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

Reserved settlement.

from

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

This reservation shall be known hereafter as the Tahoe Forest Change of name.

Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL . ]

the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3166 October 3, 1905.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Tonto Forest Re-

serve, Ariz.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur-

poses " " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of Arizona , within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with timber, and

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Arizona.

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

Description.

land lying and being situate in the Territory of Arizona , and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north-west corner of Township twelve ( 12) North, Range seven (7) East, Gila and Salt River Meridian, Ari-

zona ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section six (6) ,

said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , Township eleven

and one-half ( 11 ) North, Range seven ( 7 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south -west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range seven ( 7 ) East ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty- eight (28 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five (5 ) , Township

ten ( 10 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south- west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four (24) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the north- west

corner of Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence

southerly, allowing for the proper offset on the Second (2nd) Standard Parallel North, to the south- west corner of Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four (4 ) , Township seven (7) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-

four ( 34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of

Section three (3 ) , Township six ( 6 ) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ;

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3167

Tonto Forest Rethence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence east- serve Continued. erly to the north-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township six ( 6) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Section four (4) , Township five ( 5 ) North , Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three ( 23) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-five (25) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township five ( 5 ) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section six (6) , Township four (4 ) North , Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28 ) , said township : thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-three (33) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-four (34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section three (3) , Township three ( 3) North, Range ten ( 10) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , Township three (3 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section three ( 3) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , Township four (4) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section eight ( 8) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section seven ( 7) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence northerly, allowing for the proper offset on the First (1st) Standard Parallel North, to the north- west corner of Township six (6 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township six (6 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fourteen ( 14) , said township ;, thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-four ( 24) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Township six (6) North, Range thirteen (13 ) East ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section six (6) , Township five ( 5 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south - west

3163

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

serTveo-ntCooFnotriensutedR.e- corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty- seven (27 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Township five (5 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section five (5) , Township four (4 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section four ( 4 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence easterly along the section lines to the point of intersection with the western boundary of the White Mountain or San Carlos

Indian Reservation, or the prolongation thereof ; thence in a general northerly direction along the boundary of said reservation to its intersection with the southern boundary of the Black Mesa Forest

Reserve ; thence in a general north-westerly direction along the boundary of said forest reserve and the Third ( 3rd ) Standard Parallel North to the north-west corner of Township twelve ( 12) North,

Lands excepted.

Range seven (7) East, the place of beginning ; such of the abovenamed corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

Reserved settlement.
Name.

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set-
tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Tonto
Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of
[SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

October 3, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Hell Gate Forest WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Reserve, Mont.

Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, en-

Vol. 26 , p. 1103. titled . "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ",

32P3o0s. t, pp. 3213, That the President of the United States may, from time to time,

set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

-3169

bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands in the State of Montana, within the

limits hereinafter described , are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve ,

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Montana.

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being situate in the State of Montana, and within the boundaries particularly described as follows :
Beginning at the north-west corner of Section thirty-two ( 32) ,

Description.

Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West , Principal

Meridian, Montana ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of said section ;

thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section four ( 4 ) , Town-

ship twelve ( 12 ) North , Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section fourteen (14 ) , said township ;

thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-four ( 24) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of Section

nineteen ( 19) , Township twelve ( 12 ) North , Range seventeen ( 17 )

West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-

eight (28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner

of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

north-east corner of Section three (3 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North,

Range seventeen ( 17) West ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

north- east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range sixteen (16 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east

corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of

Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner

of said section ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of the

north- west quarter of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of the south-east quarter of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ;

thence easterly, allowing for the offset on the range line, to the north-

east corner of Section twenty ( 20) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North,

Range fifteen ( 15 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the

north-east corner of Section twenty -eight ( 28 ) , Township eleven ( 11 )

North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of

Section thirty- three (33 ) , said township; thence southerly to the

south-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) . Township ten ( 10 ) North,

Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ;

thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

twenty-four (24) , Township ten ( 10) North , Range fifteen ( 15 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-

five (25 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner

3170

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905 .

ReHseelrlvGea-teCFoonrteisnt- of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

ued.

north- west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township

nine ( 9 ) North, Range fifteen ( 15 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township nine ( 9) North,

Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty (30) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said township ; thence easterly

to the south-east corner of Section thirty-five ( 35) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , Town-

ship nine ( 9 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence southerly, allowing for the offset on the Second ( 2nd) Standard Parallel North,

to the south-east corner of Section eight (8) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence westerly to the north - west

corner of Section seventeen (17) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eighteen (18 ) , said township ;

thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-four ( 24) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence

southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-

five (35) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township seven (7) North,

Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-east corner of Section

seven (7) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of said section ; thence

westerly to the south-west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township seven (7) North, Range fifteen ( 15 ) West ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Section thirty-four (34 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range fifteen (15 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section six-

teen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner

of Section nine ( 9) , said township ; thence northerly to the northeast corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township seven ( 7) North, Range fifteen

( 15 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section one

(1 ) , Township seven ( 7 ) North, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence

westerly to the south- west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section five

(5 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ),

said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six ( 26) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , Township six (6 ) North, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West; thence westerly

to the north-west corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-four (24) ,

Township five ( 5) North, Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the north-

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3171

west corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township five (5 ) North , Hell Gate Forest Reserve - Contin-
Range fifteen ( 15 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of ued. said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of the south -west quarter of Section thirty-three (33 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of the north-east quarter of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section , twenty-five ( 25 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township five ( 5 ) North , Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-three (33 ) , Township six ( 6 ) North, Range fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirtyfour (34) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-six (26) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-three (23) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Township six (6 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township seven (7) North, Range thirteen ( 13) West ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township nine ( 9) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty (30) , Township nine (9) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of Section twenty (20) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-eight ( 28) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-seven (27) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-four ( 34) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section seven (7) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty (30) , Township six ( 6 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Township six ( 6 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section one ( 1 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section two (2 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-two (22) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of the south -east quarter of Section
VOL XXXIV, PT 3----22

3172

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReHseelrlvGeat-eCFoonrteins-t twenty ( 20 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east

ued.

corner of the north-west quarter of said section ; thence westerly to

the north-west corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , Township five (5 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five ( 35) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township four

(4 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence easterly to

the north-east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south- west corner of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-seven ( 27 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north - west

corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ;

thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) ,

said township; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Township three (3 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence southerly to the

south-west corner of Section seven (7) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , said township ; thence easterly

to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , Township three (3 ) North, Range nine (9 ) West ; thence easterly

to the north- east corner of Section thirty ( 30) , said township ; thence

southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said

township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirtytwo ( 32) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner

of Section thirty-three ( 33 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four (4) , Township two (2) North Range nine ( 9 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

Section thirty-three (33) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north -east

corner of Section twenty-nine ( 29 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) ,

Township two ( 2 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , Township two (2 )

North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seven ( 7) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east

corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township four ( 4 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Sec-

tion thirty-one ( 31 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of Township four (4 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Township three (3 )

North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east

corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range

fourteen ( 14 ) West ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of

Section twenty ( 20 ) . said township ; thence southerly to the southeast corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , said township: thence westerly

to the north-west corner of Township two (2 ) North, Range fourteen (14 ) West ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section

thirteen ( 13 ) , Township two (2 ) North. Range fifteen ( 15 ) West ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) ,

Township two ( 2 ) North. Range sixteen ( 16 ) West ; thence southerly

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

3173

to the south-east corner of Section twenty-six ( 26 ) , said township ; Hell Gate Forest Reserve - Contin-
thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , ued. said township; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township two (2 ) North , Range seventeen ( 17 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section four ( 4 ) , Township one ( 1 ) North . Range seventeen ( 17 ) West ; thence southerly to the south -east corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the northwest corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Township one ( 1 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section two (2 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Section ten ( 10) , said township , thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section seven ( 7 ) , said ownship ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Township one ( 1 ) South, Range nineteen ( 19 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of the south-east quarter of Section thirty-two (32 ), Township one ( 1 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of the north-west quarter of Section five ( 5 ) , said township; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township two ( 2 ) North, Range twenty (20 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-three (33) , Township three ( 3 ) North, Range twenty (20) West ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twentysix (26) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of. Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly, allowing for the offset on the section line between Sections six ( 6 ) and seven (7) , said township, to the north-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17) , Township four ( 4) North, Range twenty (20 ) West ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of Township five (5 ) North, Range twenty (20 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty-one ( 31 ) , Township five ( 5 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) West ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north - west corner of Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirtythree (33 ) , Township six (6 ) North, Range nineteen ( 19 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty- seven (27) , Township seven ( 7) North, Range nineteen (19 ) West ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-two (22 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section two ( 2), said township : thence easterly to the south-east corner of Township eight (8 ) North, Range nineteen (19) West ; thence northerly, allowing for the offset on the Second (2nd ) Standard

3174

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

ReHseelrlvGea-teCFoonrteisn-t Parallel North, to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) .

ued .

Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence

easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to

the south-west corner of Section five (5 ) , said township ; thence

easterly to the south -east corner of said section ; thence northerly

to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Section thirty-two ( 32 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence northerly to the north- east corner

of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section thirty (30 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-

east corner of Section twenty-five ( 25 ) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North , Range nineteen ( 19 ) West ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south -east corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said sec-

tion ; thence northerly, allowing for the offset on the township line, to the north-west corner of Section thirty ( 30 ) . Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence easterly to the southeast corner of Section nineteen ( 19) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-

west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the southwest corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence easterly to the south-

east corner of Section thirty-one (31 ) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range eighteen ( 18 ) West ; thence northerly to the north-

west corner of Section thirty-two (32 ) , said township, the place of beginning ; such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may

Lands excepted.

occur in actually extending the surveys ;

:

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

Reserved settlement.
Name.

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Hell Gate Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL. ]

the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

3175 October 3, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, the

Lincoln

Forest

Reserve,

in

the

Teritory

of

New

Lincoln Forest Reserve, N. Mex.

Mexico, was established by proclamation dated July twenty-sixth, Preamble.

Vol. 32, p. 2018. nineteen hundred and two, under and by virtue of section twenty- four Vol. 26, p. 1103.

of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and Post, p. 3216.

ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for

other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of the United

States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or

Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled , "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that "the President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would he promoted by

releasing and excluding certain lands from the said forest reserve,

and by including therein certain additional lands, in the Territory of

New Mexico, which are in part covered with timber ;

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt ,

President

of the

United

Boundarles modifiled .

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven,

do hereby make known and proclaim that the boundary lines of the

aforesaid Lincoln Forest Reserve are hereby so changed as to read as

follows :

Beginning at the north-west corner of Township ten ( 10) South, Range ten (10) East, New Mexico Principal Meridian, New Mexico ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty- four (24 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner or Section seven (7) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section six ( 6) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of Section thirty-two (32) , Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-five (25 ) , fractional Township eight (8 ) South, Range twelve ( 12 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south- east corner of Section thirty- five (35) , Township seven (7) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north - west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north -west corner

Description.

3176

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

ReLsienrcvolen-FCoornteisnt- of Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east

ued.

corner of fractional Township seven ( 7 ) South, Range twelve ( 12 )

East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section seven ( 7) ,

Township seven ( 7 ) South , Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence east-

erly to the south- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ;

thence northerly to the north- west corner of Township seven (7) South, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the

south - west corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence east-

erly to the north-east corner of Section fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ;

thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section twenty - three (23) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Sec-

tion twenty-two (22) , Township seven (7) South, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence

easterly to the south- east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , Township

seven ( 7 ) South, Range sixteen ( 16 ) East ; thence northerly to the

north- east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township seven (7) South, Range

seventeen ( 17 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section nineteen (19) , Township seven (7) South, Range eighteen

( 18) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twentyseven (27) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east corner

of said section ; thence easterly to the north -east corner of Section

thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -east

corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) South , Range

eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of said

section ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirty-

five (35 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north - west corner of Section two ( 2 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) South, Range eighteen ( 18 ) East ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-

seven (27) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of said sec-

tion ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of Section thirty-one

(31) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of

Township nine (9 ) South, Range seventeen ( 17 ) East ; thence west-

erly to the south- west corner of said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south-

east corner of Township eight ( 8 ) South, Range fourteen ( 14 ) East ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- four ( 24) ,

said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section

twenty-one (21 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of the north-east quarter of Section twenty-nine (29 ) . said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of the south - west

quarter of Section thirty ( 30 ) , said township ; thence southerly to

the south-west corner of Township nine (9 ) South , Range fourteen

( 14 ) East ; thence easterly along the township line to the western

boundary line of the abandoned Fort Stanton Military Reservation ;

thence in a general southeasterly and northeasterly direction along

the boundary of said reservation as extended by Executive order dated November first, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, for the use

of the United States Marine Hospital Service, to the north-west cor-

ner of lot two ( 2 ) in Section three (3 ) , Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of

said township ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range fifteen ( 15 ) East ; thence westerly to the

south- west corner of Township eleven ( 11 ) South, Range thirteen

(13 ) East ; thence northerly to the north -west corner of said town-

ship ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section thirty-five

(35) , Township ten ( 10 ) South, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence north-

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3177

Lincoln Forest erly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-two ( 22 ) , said town- Reserve Continship ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ued.
(18) , said township; thence northerly to the north- west corner of

said township, the place of beginning; And further beginning at the north-east corner of Township thir-

teen ( 13 ) South, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of said township ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of Section thirty-four ( 34) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of Section twenty- eight (28 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north -east

corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence northerly to the south-west

corner of Section twenty- nine (29) , Township twelve ( 12 ) South , Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section twenty-one ( 21 ) , said township; thence northerly to the south - west corner of Section

ten ( 10) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- east corner of Section two ( 2 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of lot three (3) in Section one ( 1 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north - east corner of lot one (1 ) in said section ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) South, Range eleven ( 11 )

East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) South, Range eleven (11 ) East, the place of beginning ;
Such of the above-named corners as have not been established by

the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur in actually extending the surveys ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been , prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

The

lands

hereby

excluded

from

the

reserve

and

restored

to

the

Restored lands open to settlement.

public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but

shall not be subject to entry , filing or selection until after ninety days

notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.
Reserved Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set- settlement. tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

from

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3178 October 3, 1905.

FROCLAMATIONS , 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

E

A PROCLAMATION. er

Portales Forest Reserve, N. Mex.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the act of

Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Vol . 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

"" poses 9 " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not , as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits

thereof 99;

T

And whereas, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico ,

en

within the limits hereinafter described, are in part covered with tim-

ber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting

Forest reserve , apart and reserving said lands as a public reservation ;

New Mexico.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of

the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim

that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart

e

as a Public Reservation all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of

land lying and being situate in the Territory of New Mexico , and

Description.

within the boundaries particularly described as follows : Beginning at the north-west corner of Section four (4 ) Township

two ( 2 ) North, Range thirty-two (32) East, New Mexico Principal

D

Meridian, New Mexico ; thence easterly to the north-west corner of

Section one (1 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west

corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of

said section ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section

seven ( 7) , Township two (2) North, Range thirty-three ( 33 ) East ; thence easterly to the north - east corner of Section seventeen ( 17) ,

said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said sec-

tion ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-two

( 22) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section two (2 ) , Township one ( 1 ) North, Range thirty-three ( 33 )
East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section twelve (12 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen
(17), Township one (1 ) North, Range thirty- five (35 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section nineteen ( 19 ) , Township one ( 1)
North, Range thirty-six ( 36 ) East ; thence southerly to the southcast corner of said section ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-eight (28 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of said section ; thence easterly along the section lines to the boundary line between the Territory of New Mexico and the State of Texas, as it now exists or may hereafter be established ; thence southerly along said boundary line to the section. line between Sections ten ( 10 ) and fifteen ( 15 ) , Township two (2)

South, Range thirty-seven ( 37 ) East, New Mexico Principal Meridian, New Mexico, or extension thereof; thence westerly to the south-
east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , Township Two ( 2 ) South, Range thirty-six (36 ) East ; thence northerly to the north- east corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section six ( 6 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north- west corner of said township ;

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3179

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-five

( 25 ) ,

ResPeorrvtales

Forest Contin-

Township one (1 ) South, Range thirty-five ( 35 ) East ; thence west- ued . erly to the south- east corner of Section twenty -one ( 21 ) , said town-

ship ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of said section ;

thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township; thence northerly to the north- west corner of said

section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section nine

(9) , Township one ( 1 ) South, Range thirty-four (34 ) East ; thence

northerly to the north- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to

the south-west corner of Section three (3 ) , Township one ( 1 ) South,

Range thirty-three ( 33 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-west

corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-east corner of

Township one ( 1 ) North, Range thirty-two (32 ) East ; thence north-

erly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six ( 36 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north -west corner of said section ;

thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty- three

(23) , said township ; thence westerly to the south - west corner of Sec-

tion fifteen ( 15 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north -east

corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of Section six (6 ) , said township ; thence north-

erly to the north- west corner of said township ; thence westerly to the

south-west corner of Section thirty-five (35) , Township two (2)

North, Range thirty-one ( 31 ) East ; thence northerly to the northwest corner of Section fourteen ( 14 ) , said township ; thence easterly

to the south- east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence

northerly to the north -east corner of said section ; thence easterly to the south- west corner of Section four (4 ) , Township two ( 2 ) North,

Range thirty-two (32 ) East ; thence northerly to the north - west cor-

ner of said section , the place of beginning ;

Lands excepted.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. The reservation hereby established shall be known as the Portales
Forest Reserve.

Reserved from settlement..
Name.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 3 day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and

[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3180

PROCLAMATIONS , 1905.

October 3, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Little Belt Forest Reserve, Mont.

WHEREAS , the Little Belt Mountains Forest Reserve, in the State

Preamble.

of Montana, was established by proclamation dated August sixteenth,

Vol. 32, p. 2022.

Vol. 28; P: 1103: nineteen hundred and two, under and by virtue of section twenty-

32P7o7s. t, pp. 3254, four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws,

and for other purposes ", which provides, " That the President of

the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in

any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any

part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reserva-

tions, and the President shall , by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress , ap-

proved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled. "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " the President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ";

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

Boundaries larged.

by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of Montana, which are in part covered with timber ; en- Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven,

do hereby make known and proclaim that the aforesaid Little Belt Mountains Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said

additional lands , and that the boundaries of the reserve are, accordingly, changed to read as follows :

Description.

Beginning at the north-east corner of Township fifteen ( 15 )

North, Range ten ( 10 ) East, Principal Meridian, Montana ; thence

southerly to the south- west corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) North,

Range eleven ( 11 ) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner

of Section four (4 ) , Township fourteen (14 ) North, Range eleven

( 11 ) East ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of Section

thirty- four (34 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east

corner of Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range eleven ( 11 ) East ;

thence southerly, allowing for the offset on the Third (3rd ) Stand-

ard Parallel North , to the south- west corner of Township twelve

( 12 ) North, Range twelve ( 12 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-

east corner of Township eleven ( 11 ) North, Range thirteen ( 13 )

East ; thence southerly to the south- east corner of Township ten ( 10) North, Range thirteen ( 13 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-

west corner of Township ten ( 10 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ;

thence northerly to the north- east corner of Township ten ( 10) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence westerly to the south -west

corner of Section thirty- four (34) , Township eleven ( 11 ) North,

Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of

Section four (4 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west

corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence

northerly to the north-east corner of Township twelve ( 12 ) North,

Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3181

Section thirty- four ( 34) , Township thirteen ( 13 ) North, Range ReLsitetrlevBeeltCoFnotriens-t
eight (8 ) East ; thence northerly to the north - east corner of Section ued. twenty-one (21 ) , said township; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) North, Range eight ( 8) East ; thence easterly to the north - east corner of Township fifteen ( 15 ) North, Range ten ( 10) East, the place of beginning ;
And further beginning at the south- west corner of Section six ( 6 ) , Township seven ( 7) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East , Principal Meridian , Montana ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-six (36 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range seven ( 7 ) East ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section twentyfive ( 25 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section twenty-six (26 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south- west corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence northerly, allowing for the offset on the Second ( 2nd ) Standard Parallel North, to the north- west corner of Section twenty - six (26 ) , Township nine (9 ) North, Range seven ( 7) East ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of Section twenty-three (23 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty-four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section seven ( 7) , Township nine ( 9) North, Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence easterly to the north- east corner of Section eight ( 8 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section nine ( 9 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south -east corner of Section twelve ( 12 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north- west corner of Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section four ( 4 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the southwest corner of Section three (3 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of Section fourteen (14 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , Township nine ( 9 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section seventeen ( 17 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-west corner of Section sixteen ( 16 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the northeast corner of Section twenty-two ( 22) , said township ; thence southerly to the south -west corner of Section thirty-five ( 35 ) , said township ; thence easterly to the north-east corner of Section two ( 2) , Township eight ( 8 ) North, Range ten ( 10 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section eleven ( 11 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section ten ( 10 ) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section nine (9) , said township ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section four (4) , said township ; thence northerly to the north-east corner of Section five ( 5 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section three ( 3 ) , Township eight ( 8 ) North , Range nine ( 9 ) East ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section nine (9 ) , said township ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section eighteen ( 18 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the south-east corner of Section thirteen ( 13 ) , Township eight (8 ) North , Range eight ( 8 ) East ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section twenty- four ( 24 ) , said township ; thence southerly to the north-east corner of Section thirty-five (35 ) , said township : thence westerly to the north- west corner of said section : thence

3182

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

southerly to the south-west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the north-west corner of Section three (3 ) , Township seven (7) North, Range eight (8 ) East ; thence southerly to the south- west corner of said section ; thence westerly to the south-west corner of Section six (6) , said township, the place of beginning;

Such of the above-named corners as have not been established by the official surveys being intended to be located at the points where

such corners would fall in projecting the surveys in the directions indicated without allowing for any irregularities which may occur

in actually extending the surveys ;

Lands excepted.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that

this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of

land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply

with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set-

tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

Change of name. This reservation shall be known hereafter as the Little Belt For-

est Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,
[ SEAL . ] and of the Independence of the United States the one dred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

October 12, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.
Jemez Forest Reserve, New Mexico. WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of
Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103. Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, Post, p. 3261. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-
poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public
land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial
value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
And whereas, the public lands, in the Territory of New Mexico, which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and
it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ; Forest reserve, Now, therefore , I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United New Mexico. States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation , for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the Territory of New Mexico, shown as the Jemez Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof:

been maile p male entr
tooption shut law under
Warning ment n
IN WITS Done st
By the t

R.52. R.6E. R.7E. FB E.

JEMEZ FOREST RESERVE
NEW MEXICO

REE. R.I W. R.I E.

VutriRtoAE

T.31 N. T.30N. 29N
T28 . T27N.

T26N.

T26N .

T25N.

T25N.

GRANT

POLV GRA ADER
NT A AOBFION GRANT
LOBATO

WHER itled 1.23N. natemal
sideri nd ex TZEN.

T.24N R.2 W.

PIEDRA
LUMBRE GRANT

R.91 . T24 N.
T.23N.
TEEN.

Inited T.21 N.
R3W. 36-
T.20N
be 19 N
Les ion , fr ise ordT.18N.
AND nd of Wi
7.17N. Story of
TS.W
T.16N. Dun
T.15 N.

TELY.

.95-

OJO DEL ESPIRITU SANTO
GRANT

CANYON DE SAN DIEGO
GRANT
JEMEZ PUEBLO GRANT SAN YSIDRO GRANT

BACA LOCATION

RAMON VIGIL GRANT

SANTACLARA! PUEBLOGRANT T20N.
SAN ILDEFONSO PUEBLOGRANT
T.19 N.
T.18 N.

CANADA DE COCHITI GRANT

OJO DE BORREGO

PUEBL DECOCH GRA

GRANT SANTODOMINGO

PUEBLO GRANT

R.7 E. T17 N.
T16 N.
TIS N.

Rew RIW. RI E. R2E. R.SE. RAE. R.SE. ROE.

Hv

50° Longitude W. from Washington

FOREST SERVICE, U.S. DEPT. OF AGBIBULTURE. 1900.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3183

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

Lands excepted.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Reserved settlement.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five,

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

1 BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

October 14, 1905.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS by a Joint Resolution, approved April 22, 1898, en-
titled "Joint Resolution to prohibit the export of coal or other material used in war from any sea-port of the United States ", the President is " authorized, in his discretion, and with such limitations

Santo Domingo. Preamble. Vol. 30, p. 739.

and exceptions as shall seem to him expedient, to prohibit the export of coal or other material used in war from any sea- port of the

United States until otherwise ordered by the President or by Con-

gress ; "

NOW,

THEREFORE,

I,

THEODORE

ROOSEVELT ,

Presi- Export of war material to Domin-

dent of the United States of America, for good and sufficient reasons ican Republic prohibited .
unto me appearing, and by virtue of the authority conferred upon

me by the said Joint Resolution, do hereby declare and proclaim that

the export of arms, ammunition and munitions of war of every kind,

from any port in the United States or in Porto Rico to any port in the Dominican Republic, is prohibited, without limitation or excep-

tion, from and after the date of this my proclamation until otherwise ordered by the President or by Congress.
AND I do hereby enjoin all good citizens of the United States

Notice.

and of Porto Rico and all persons residing or being within the territory or jurisdiction thereof to be governed accordingly.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 14th day of October in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirtieth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3184 November 2, 1905.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

When nearly three centuries ago the first settlers came to the coun-

try which has now become this great republic, they fronted not only hardship and privation, but terrible risk to their lives. In those

grim years the custom grew of setting apart one day in each year for

a special service of thanksgiving to the Almighty for preserving the people through the changing seasons. The custom has now become

national and hallowed by immemorial usage. We live in easier and

more plentiful times than our forefathers, the men who with rugged

strength faced the rugged days ; and yet the dangers to national life are quite as great now as at any previous time in our history. It is

eminently fitting that once a year our people should set apart a day

for praise and thanksgiving to the Giver of Good, and, at the same

time that they express their thankfulness for the abundant mercies

received, should manfully acknowledge their shortcomings and pledge

themselves solemnly and in good faith to strive to overcome them. During the past year we have been blessed with bountiful crops. Our

business prosperity has been great. No other people has ever stood on as high a level of material well -being as ours now stands. We are

not threatened by foes from without. The foes from whom we should

pray to be delivered are our own passions, appetites and follies ; and

against these there is always need that we should war.

Thursday, November 30, 1905,

Therefore, I now set apart Thursday, the thirtieth day of this No-

oseftnaatpiaorntalasthaandkasy- vember, as a day of thanksgiving for the past and of prayer for the

giving.

future, and on that day I ask that throughout the land the people

gather in their homes and places of worship, and in rendering thanks

unto the Most High for the manifold blessings of the past year, con-

secrate themselves to a life of cleanliness, honor and wisdom , so that

this nation may do its allotted work on the earth in a manner worthy

of those who founded it and of those who preserved it.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2nd day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five
[SEAL. ] and of the independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

November 11, 1905.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Yuba Forest Re-

serve, Cal.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one,

Vol. 26 , p. 1103.

Post, p. 3232. entitle""d, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur-

poses " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

wh VOL XXXIV, PT 3-23

DM. IETARBLORE.8

RE. 9

RE.10

RE.7 TN..21 4.NPo.Srtand T. .20N

TN..19

NT..18 1904

OAUSF, .EOGFSR.VEIDISCECTUPETLTURE

F Y RE O US R BEAR SV TE CALIFORNIA

RE.11

ER.12

RE.13

RE.14

RE.15

ER.16

T.21.N.

T. .20N

4LWfaor.2snohgmintgutdoen

TN..19 ·3°° 09
T. .IGN

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905 .

3185

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of California, which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as

a public reservation ;

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt ,

President

of the

United

Forest reserve, California.

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of California , shown as the Yuba Forest Reserve on

the diagram forming a part hereof; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

Reserved settlement.

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

from

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 11th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and five, and

[ SEAL . ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

January 1 , 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas the

Government

of

Switzerland

decreed

the

removal ,

on

Reciprocity Switzerland .

with

and after January 1 , 1906 , of all differential customs duties from the Preamble.

products of the soil and industry of the United States, and granted to the same the benefit of the Swiss conventional tariff rates, by

which action in the judgment of the President reciprocal and equiv-
lent concessions are established in favor of the said products of the
United States : Reduced duty on
Now, therefore, be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, President Swiss products. of the United States of America, acting under the authority con- Vol. 30, p. 203.
ferred by the third Section of the Tariff Act of the United States

approved July 24, 1897 , do hereby suspend during the continuance in force of the said concessions by the Government of Switzerland the

imposition and collection of the duties imposed by the first Section of said Act upon the articles hereinafter specified , being the products of the soil and industry of Switzerland ; and do declare in place

thereof the following rates of duty provided in the third Section of said Act to be in force and effect from and after the date of this

3186

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

Articles affected: Vol. 30, p. 204.

Proclamation, of which the officers and citizens of the United States will take due notice, namely :
Upon argols, or crude tartar, or wine lees, crude, five per centum ad valorem.

Upon brandies, or other spirits manufactured or distilled from
grain or other materials, one dollar and seventy-five cents per proof gallon.
Upon still wines, and vermuth, in casks, thirty-five cents per gallon ; in bottles or jugs, per case of one dozen bottles or jugs containing each not more than one quart and more than one pint, or twentyfour bottles or jugs containing each not more than one pint, one dollar and twenty- five cents per case, and any excess beyond these quantities found in such bottles or jugs shall be subject to a duty of four cents per pint or fractional part thereof, but no separate or additional duty shall be assessed upon the bottles or jugs.
Upon paintings in oil or water colors, pastels, pen and ink drawings, and statuary, fifteen per centum ad valorem.
In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this first day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and
[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT
Secretary of State.

January 16, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Uintah Forest Reserve. Utah and Wyo.
Preamble.
Vol. 29, p. 895. Ante, p. 3116.
Post, pp. 3 2 0 7, 3240.
Vol. 30, p. 36.

WHEREAS , the Uintah Forest Reserve, in the State of Utah, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-second , eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, and was subsequently enlarged by proclamation dated July fourteenth, nineteen hundred and five ;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An act making

appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety -eight , and for other purposes ", that " the President is hereby authorized at

any time to modify any Executive order that nas been or may here-

after be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;

Boundaries larged .

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by further enlarging the said forest reserve to include certain additional lands in the States of Utah and Wyoming, which are in part covered with timber: en- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid Act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and nine seven , do proclaim that the aforesaid Uintah Forest Reserve is nereby further enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

boundaries of the reserve are, accordingly, now as shown on the

diagram forming a part hereof ;

120W

RITW ROW

RDAW WIOW

TEN
TIN
TJS R7E
T25 T3S
763 Rel TBS
TOS
T78
TO'S
795
TIOS A7E TIS

RIDE RIE RIE PRICE

TION

WYOMING BOUNDARY

UTAN

LINE

TIN



TZN ATW ROW ROW RAW
725 738
753

A&W Riw RIS
RFUEIOSNRETRASVHTE WUYTOAMHING
AUDSF.O.EGOEFSRRP.VIETICSCUTELTURE 1906
pGfClroLaomtmOpeiled BRFoerusenesdrtavrey

Wf3°are3soahmtington

35° 30'

'°3475

43°57

SALT LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE. R. 8 W.
T. 32 S.

R. 6 W R. 7W.

R. 4 W. T. 31 S. R. 5 W.

R. 3W. R. 2% W. R.131

T. 33 S. R. 9W.

T. 34 S. R. 10 W.

T. 35 S.

7th Standard Parallel South.

T. 36 S.

T. 37 S. T. 38 S

T. 39 S:

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED JANUARY 17, 1906.]

SEVIER FOREST RESERVE ,
UTAH . FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1905 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.

Forest Reserve Boundary.

35° 30' West from Washington.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3187

Lands excepted. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal
entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has
been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this
exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement. ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,
[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth . T. ROOSEVELT
By the President . ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

January 17, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS,

the

Sevier

Forest

Reserve,

in the

State

of Utah, Sevier Forest Reserve, Utah.

was established by proclamation dated May twelfth , nineteen hun- Preamble.

dred and five ;

Ante, p. 3020.

And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved Vol. 30, p. 36.

June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled , "An act

making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninetyeight, and for other purposes ", that " the President is hereby au-

thorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary

lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ";

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted
by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State
of Utah, which are in part covered with timber ; Boundaries en-
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged . States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the afore-
said act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and
ninety-seven, do proclaim that the aforesaid Sevier Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are, accordingly, now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been , prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period

Lands excepted.

within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler or claimant

continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made..

3188

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

Reserved settlement.

from Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make
settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 17th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[ SEAL. ]

six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

January 18, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION,

Manti Forest Re- WHEREAS, the Manti Forest Reserve, in the State of Utah, was serve, Utah.

Preamble.

established by proclamation dated May twenty-ninth, nineteen hun-

Vol. 33, p. 2308. dred and three ;

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " the President is hereby authorized at

any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modifica-

tion may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

Boundaries larged.

by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of Utah, which are in part covered with timber ; en- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the afore-

said act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, do proclaim that the aforesaid Manti Forest Reserve is

hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are, accordingly, now as shown on the

Lands excepted.

diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

inake entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

Reserved settlement.

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 18th day of January, in the

[ SEAL. ]

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

R. 4 E.

R. 5 E.

T 10S.

R. 6 E. Salt Lake Meridian. T. 10 S.

T. 11 S.

MANTI

T. 12 S.

FOREST RESERVE ,

UTAH , FOREST SERVICE,U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1905. Compiledfrom G. L. O Plats.

T. 13 8.

Forest Reserve Boundary.

T. 14 S.

T. 15 S. R. 4 E. T. 16 S.

T. 17 S. R. 3 E. T. 18 S.

T 11 S.
T. 12 S.
T. 13 S. R. 7 E. T. 14 S. A. 8. E. T. 15 S.
T. 16 S. R. 8 E. T. 17S. R. 7 E. T. 18 8.

'°390

T. 19 S,

T. 19 S.

T. 20'S. R. 2 E.

T. 20 S.

T. 21 S.

T. 21 S.

T. 22 S. R. 2 E.

R. 3 E.

R. 4 E.

R. 5 E.

R. 6 E.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED JANUARY 18, 1906.]
34°30 Longitude W. from Washington.

:

RZE

R3E

R4E T 23 S

T 24S

T25S RSL T26S

HH

'°308

T27S

T286
FISH LAKE FOREST RESERVE UTAH
FOREST SERVICE - U.S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE 1906
Compiled from G.L.O. Plats Forest Reserve Boundary
SALT LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE
West from Washington 34°30

T. 26 S.

THE BEAVER FOREST RESERVE ,

UTAH .

FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,

R. 6 W.

R. 5 W.

1905 . R 4½ W.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED JANUARY 24, 1906]

'°380

T. 27 S.

T 28 S.

T. 29 S.

T. 30 S.

R. 3 W

R. 6 W

R 5W

R 4W

SALT LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE

1

35° 30'

West from Washington.

Forest Reserve Boundary

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

3189

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

January 22, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS , the Fish Lake Forest Reserve, in the State of Utah, ReFeisvhe,LaLke Forest

was established by proclamation dated February tenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, and was subsequently enlarged by proclamation dated May second, nineteen hundred and four ;

Preamble.
Vol. 30, p. 1787. Vol. 33, p. 2341.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further enlarging the said forest reserve to include certain addi-

tional lands, in the State of Utah, which are in part covered with timber ;
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

Boundaries en larged .
Vol. 30, p. 36.

seven, entitled, "An act making appropriations for sundry civil ex-

penses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth ,

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", do pro-

claim that the aforesaid Fish Lake Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged

to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the. reserve are, accordingly, now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

Lands excepted.

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. Reserved
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement. settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

from

Done at the City of Washington this 22nd day of January , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[ SEAL. ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

January 24, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

Beaver Forest ReWHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of serve, Utah.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one. Preamble.

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

entitle""d,66"An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur-

poses

That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof";

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--24

3190

PROCLAMATIONS, 1905.

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Utah, which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears

Forest Utah.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ; reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

Lands excepted.

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Utah, shown as the Beaver Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been , prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply with the

Reserved settlement.

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made. from Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 24th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. T. ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

January 25, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

La Sal Forest Reserve, Utah, and

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of

Colo . Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses .", " that the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits

thereon " ;

And whereas, the public lands, in the States of Utah and Colorado,

which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

said lands as a public reservation ; Forest reserve, Now , therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Utah and Colorado.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land , in the States of Utah and Colorado , shown as the La Sal Forest .

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ;

LA SAL FOREST RESERVE , UTAH AND COLORADO .
FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE, 1905 .
Compiled from G. L. O. Plats. Forest Reserve Boundary.

R. 24 E.

R. 25 E.

R 26 E.

T. 25 S.

R 19 W

T. 26 S. R. 23 E. T 27 S.

T. 50 N 1
T. 49 N

°380

T 28 S

R. 23 E.

R. 24 E.

Salt Lake Meridian and Base Line. T 29 S

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED JANUARY 25. 1906.]

T. 48 N

R. 20 W R. 26 E

R. 19 W.

New Mexico Prin Mer. and Base Line. T 29 S

R. 25 E

32° Longitude West from Washington.

FRUITA FOREST RESERVE , COLORADO .
FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE , 1906 .
Forest Reserve Boundary.

'°4318

4

.3

2

1

T. 14 S.

10

11

12

O

16

15

14

13

R. 102 W. 6th Principal Meridian .

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED FEBRUARY 24, 1906.] Longitude West from Washington .

31° 43'

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3191

Lands excepted. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that

this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of

land unless the entryman, settler or claimant continues to comply

with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

Reserved settlement.

from

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and
[ SEAL . ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. T. ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

February 24 , 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of seFrvreu,itCaolFoo.rest ReCongress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, Preamble.
Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-
poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to
time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Colorado, which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ;

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Forest reserve, Colorado.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Pub

lic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Colorado, shown as the Fruita Forest Reserve

on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been , prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

Lands excepted.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to
make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this
exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman , settler, or claimant continues to comply with
the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made. Reserved from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement. settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

3192

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 24th day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred

[ SEAL . ]

and six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

February 27, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Reciprocity with Germany.

WHEREAS the Government of Germany has taken action , extend-

Preamble.

ing, on and after March 1 , 1906, and until June 30, 1907, or until

Vol. 31, p. 1978.

further notice, the benefit of the German conventional customs tariff

to the products of the soil or industry of the United States, by which action in the judgment of the President reciprocal concessions are established in favor of the said products of the United States : Reduced duties on NOW, THEREFORE , be it known that I, THEODORE German products. Vol. 30, p. 203. ROOSEVELT, President of the United States of America, acting
under the authority conferred by the third section of the Tariff Act of the United States, approved July 24, 1897, do hereby suspend,
during the continuance in force of the said concessions by the Government of Germany, the imposition and collection of the duties imposed by the first section of said Act upon the articles hereinafter specified, being the products of the soil or industry of Germany ; and do declare in place thereof the following rates of duty provided in the third section of said Act to be in force and effect on and after

Articles affected.

March 1 , 1906 , of which the officers and citizens of the United States will take due notice, namely :
Upon argols, or crude tartar, or wine lees , crude, five per centum ad valorem .

Upon brandies, or other spirits manufactured or distilled from

grain or other materials, one dollar and seventy -five cents per proof

gallon.

Upon still wines, and vermuth, in casks, thirty-five cents per gal-

lon ; in bottles or jugs, per case of one dozen bottles or jugs containing

each not more than one quart and more than one pint, or twenty-

four bottles or jugs containing each not more than one pint, one dollar

and twenty-five cents per case, and any excess beyond these quantities

found in such bottles or jugs shall be subject to a duty of four cents

per pint or fractional part thereof, but no separate or additional duty

shall be assessed upon the bottles or jugs.

Upon paintings in oil or water colors, pastels, pen and ink drawings, and statuary, fifteen per centum ad valorem.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

DONE at the City of Washington this twenty- seventh day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand

[ SEAL . ] nine hundred and six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

R7E

R BE

T2S

R. SE,

R. 6 E

R9E

T. 3 S

R. 1 E.

R. 2. E

R. 3 E.

R.4E

T.4 S.

MADI SON
RIVER YELL
OWST ONE
RIVER

T. 5 S.

T. 6 S T. 75.

T. 8 S

T.9 S. T. 10 S.

YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK GALLATIN FOREST RESERVE
MONTANA MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE
1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary.
34 W from Washington, D. C.

R 40 W

24° 45 R 39W

6th Principal Meridian and base.

T. 23 N. R 38 W.

T. 22 N

°415 '°415

5th Standard arallel North

T. 21 N. T. 20 N.

T. 19 N. R. 37W T. 18 N.

T. 17 N.

NORTH PLATTE FOREST RESERVE ,

NEBRASKA .

FOREST SERVICE , U. S DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,

1906 .

Compiled from G. LO Plats.

[DIAGRAM FORMING PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 10, 1906 ]

Forest Reserve Boundary. 24° 45 West from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3193

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

March 7, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

Gallatin Forest WHEREAS , The Gallatin Forest Reserves, in the State of Mon- Reserve, Montana.

tana, were established by proclamation dated February tenth, eight-

Vol. 30, p. 1788. Preamble.

een hundred and ninety-nine;

And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June Vol. 30, p. 36.

fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , " An act making

appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may here-

after be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserves certain lands, within the State

of Montana, which are in part covered with timber ;

Forest reserve,

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Montana, enlarged.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the afore-

said act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and

ninety-seven, do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Gallatin Forest Reserve, on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made. Reserved from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement. ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 7th day of March,

[SEAL. ]

in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.

March 10, 1906.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of esNtortRhesPelravtet,e FoNreCongress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, brParsekaa.mble. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur- Vol. 26, p. 1103. poses,"" " That the President of the United States may, from time to

3194

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Nebraska , which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve , Nebraska.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Nebraska, shown as the North Platte Forest

Lands excepted.

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make

settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 10th day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[ SEAL . ]

Six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

March 15 , 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Blue Mountains

Forest Reserve , WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of

Oregon .

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Preamble.

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

Post, p. 3302. poses,," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the Vol. 33 , p. 2331 . limits thereof " ; under which provision, The Baker City Forest

Reserve, in the State of Oregon , was established by proclamation of

Vol. 30, p. 36.

February fifth, nineteen hundred and four ; And whereas, it is further provided by the Act of Congress, ap-

6p6roved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Gov-

appears that lands as

Now,

Stau BLUE MOUNTAINS FOREST RESERVE ,

twent

OREGON .

reper

FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,

theme wo

1906 .

#Publi Tracts of

Compiled from G. L. O. Plats. Forest Reserve Boundary.

R 35E T.2S. R. 33E. R. 334E R.34E

T.38

T 3S.

R 36E R 37E

7.45

T.4S

T.SS

7.6S

T.65

T 6S.

R 32E

R.38E

Forest [DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 15, 1908.] Exceptive
which n

T.8S T.95

entry or United Soce

R17E R 18ER 19E

R 20E

T. 125

R21E R 22E.

R 23E R. 24E. R.25E.

T 10S 7.11 S
T. 12S

T 10S. T. 11S. T. 12S..

T.135

R. 26 E. R 27E

T 13S.

R 28ER 29E R.30 E R 31E. R 32E R 33E R 34E

T.14S

T 14S.

FERT. 155. Forest by the To Reserv
The bud
but are Ca the darch

T 16S T. 17S T. 18S T.19S. T.20S

T 15S. T 16S. T 17S. T 185.
R 34E. R.35E R.36 E R 37ER 38E R. 33% E.

21 S.

IN WI caused

T-22S
T. 23S Willamette Meridian and Base

42 30 W from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3195

ernment for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and niney-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve" ;

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Oregon, which are

hereinafter indicated, and which include the greater portion of The

Baker City Forest Reserve, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said

lands as a public reservation ; Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Forest reserve , Oregon.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, entitled , "An act to

repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," do proclaim that

there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as

a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the

tracts of land, in the State of Oregon, shown as the Blue Mountains

Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that

this exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply

with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

And

whereas,

it

appears

desirable

that

the

entire

area

hereby

re-

Baker City est Reserve

Forabol-

served should be known by one name, the title, " The Baker City ished and this re-

Forest Reserve ", is hereby abolished, and the reservation established serve substituted.

by this proclamation shall be known as the Blue Mountains Forest

Reserve.

The lands heretofore

within

The

Baker

City

Forest

Reserve

which

Lands restored to public domain.

are not hereby included within the Blue Mountains Forest Reserve

but are restored to the public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but shall not be subject to entry, filing, or selection

until after ninety days notice by such publication as the Secretary of

the Interior may prescribe.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

Reserved settlement.

from

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 15th day of-March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL. ]

Six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth .
THEODORE Roosevelt

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--25

3196

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

April 12, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Helena Forest

Reserve, Mont.

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103. Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses," That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Montana , which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve,

Montana.

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Helena Forest Reserve

Lands excepted.

on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman , settler, or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

1

[ SEAL. ]

Done at the City of Washington this 12th day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and Six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth..

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

April 24, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION

Ashland Forest Reserve; Oregon.

WHEREAS , the Ashland Forest Reserve, in the State of Oregon,

Preamble.

was established by proclamation dated September twenty-eighth,

Vol. 28, p. 1243. Post, p. 3298.

eighteen hundred and ninety-three ;

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June

fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An Act making

appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight,

A R. 7W.

R. 6W.

T. 12 N. R. 5W

ASHLA

T. 11 N. NERVE
R 4W

T. 10 N.
R. 8W. }
T- 9N.

T. 8N. R. 9 W
T. 7N.

T 6N.. R. 3W.
T.5N

L

T. 4N.

T. 3 N.

°46

T. 2N.

Langr

T. 1N.

HELENA FOREST RESERVE ,
. T. 1 S. FOREST SERVICE , US DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906. Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary.
T 2S. [DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED ARRIL 12, 1906.]
Montana Principal Meridian and Base Line.

Longitude W. from Washington.

35°

i

ASHLAND FOREST RESERVE ,
OREGON . FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE .
1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats. WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN AND BASE .
Forest Reserve Boundary.

.MERIDIAN 309

27 3333
20 333

25

'°472

25

29

28

27

T. 39 S.

36

31

32

34

35

EASTERN OFFSET OF WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN .

WILLAMETTE

-

6

5

4

3

2

T. 40 S.

7

8

9

10

11

124

224
20 1772

13 18

16

15

14

R. 1 W.

19

20

21

22 .

R. 1 E

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED APRIL 24, 1906.)

Longitude 45° 42 W. from Washington

36459-.235

VERNON FOREST RESERVE , UTAH .
FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE, 1906 .
Compiled from G. L. O. Plats. Forest Reserve Boundary.
Salt Lake Meridian and Base Line.

R. 8W.

R. 7W.

R. 6W.

R. 5 W.

R. 4 W.

T 9 S.

°40

2d Standard Parallel South .

T 11 S.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED APRIL 24, 1906.]

35° 30 West from Washington.

T. 10 S.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3197

and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized
at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ";

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted
by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of
Oregon, which are in part covered with timber ; Forest reserve ,
Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Oregon, enlarged. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the afore-

said act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, do proclaim that the aforesaid Ashland Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

boundaries of the reserve are, accordingly, now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

Lands excepted.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

Warning is hereby expressly given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

settle-

Reserved settlement.

from

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[ SEAL . ]

Done at the City of Washington this 24th day of April , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

April 24, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

it

is

provided

by

section

twenty- four

of

the

Act

of Vernon Forest Reserve, Utah.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one, Preamble.

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur- Vol. 26, p. 1103.

poses," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly, or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Utah, which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said fands

as a public reservation ;

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Forest reserve , Utah.

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

3198

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

Lands excepted.

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Utah, shown as the Vernon Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[SEAL. ]

Done at the City of Washington this 24th day of April, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth .
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

May 3, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Ruby Mountains Forest Reserve, Ne- WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of

vada. Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitle""d, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Nevada, which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

Forest reserve , as a public reservation ;

Nevada.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Fublic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land , in the State of Nevada , shown as the Ruby Mountains

Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

T. 37N. T. 36 N.

4°1

T. 35 N.

T. 34 N. T. 33 N. T. 32 N.

R. 60 E. R. 61 E.

T. 31 N.

T. 30 N. T. 29 N.

R. 59E

T. 28 N T. 27 N

R. 58 E.

T. 26 N.
T. 25 N. R. 56 E.

RUBY MOUNTAINS FOREST RESERVE .

NEVADA . FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,

1906 .

Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.

Forest Reserve Boundary.

R. 57 E.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MAY 3, 1008 ]

Mount Diablo Meridian and Base.

38° 30 West from Washington.

;

R. 1 W R. 1 E. T. 27 N.

T. 26 N.

RI VE R

T. 25 N.

SNA K

T 24 N. T 23 N.

OREGON

T 22 N. T. 21 N. T. 20 N.

°45

T 19 N.

T. 18 N

R 3W. R. 2 W. R. 1 W
RAW. R. 6W R 5W.

T. 17N. T. 16 N.
T 15 N. T 14 N. T 13 N.

WEISER FOREST RESERVE ,

T. 12 N.

IDAHO .

R. 1 E.

FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE , 1906 .

Compiled from G.(L. O Plats.

T 11 N. T 10 N.

Forest Reserve Boundary. T 9N

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MAY 10, 1906]

R. 2E. R. 3 E. Boise Meridian and Base Line.

39° 30 Longitude W. from Washington..

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3199

Reserved from Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement. ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation . IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .
Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of May, in [ SEAL. ] the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,
and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth .
THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT
Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 10, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, the Weiser Forest Reserve, in the State of Idaho, was Weiser Forest Re-

established by proclamation dated May twenty-fifth, nineteen hun- serPvree,aImdbalheo.

dred and five;

Ante, p. 3055. Post, p. 3294.

And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June Vol. 30, p. 36.

fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An act making

appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety- eight,

and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby authorized at

any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may here-

after be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modifica-

tion may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve,

or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve "; And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by

adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

Idaho, which are in part covered with timber ; Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Forest reserve , Idaho, enlarged.
States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the afore-

said act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, do proclaim that the aforesaid Weiser Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

boundaries of the reserve are, accordingly, now as shown on the

diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided , that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made. Reserved from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement.
ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 10th day of May, [SEAL.] in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3200

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

May 19, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION .

Fillmore Forest Reserve, Utah.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one ,

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses,," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Utah, which are

hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

Forest Utah.

as a public reservation ; Leserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation , for the use and benefit of the people, all the

tracts of land , in the State of Utah, shown as the Fillmore Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof; Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with

Reserved from the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[ SEAL. ]

Done at the City of Washington this 19th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hunderd and thirtieth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

May 24, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES .

A PROCLAMATION.

Crow indian

Reservation , Mont. WHEREAS, By an agreement between the Indians of the Crow In-

Prearme.

dian Reservation in Montana, on the one part, and Benjamin F. Barge,

Vol. 33, p. 352.

James H. McNeely, and Charles G. Hoyt, Commissioners on behalf

of the United States, on the other part, amended and ratified by Act

of Congress approved April twenty-seven , nineteen hundred and four

R. 4W.

R. 3W. T. 14S.

T. 15 S.

R. 5W.

T. 16 S.
T. 17S. R. 2W. T. 18 S.

FILLMORE FOREST RESERVE,

UTAH .

SALT LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, Ú. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE.
1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.

Forest Reserve Boundary.

39°

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION

DATED MAY 19, 1908.]

T. 19S.

R. 2% W.

T. 20 S. T. 21 S.

R. 3 W. R. 2% W.

R. 4% W. R. 4W.

T. 22 S. R. 2W. T. 23 S.

T. 24 S.

R. 3W. T. 25 S.

R.5W. R.4½W. VOL XXXIV, PT 3-26 35° 30 West from Washington.

R, 4 W.

3200 May 19, 1906.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Fillmore Forest

Reserve, Utah. Preambl

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

e.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses," " That the President of the United States may, from time to
time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public
land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Utah, which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

Forest Utah.

as a public reservation ; reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Utah, shown as the Fillmore Forest

Lands excepted. Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

Reserved settlement.

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with from the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[SEAL. ]

Done at the City of Washington this 19th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hunderd and thirtieth.

By the President : ELIHU ROOT
Secretary of State.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

May 24, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES .

A PROCLAMATION.

Crow indian

Reservation, Mont. Preamie.

WHEREAS , By an agreement between the Indians of the Crow In-

Vol. 33, p. 352. dian Reservation in Montana , on the one part, and Benjamin F. Barge.

James H. McNeely, and Charles G. Hoyt, Commissioners on behalf

of the United States, on the other part, amended and ratified by Act

of Congress approved April twenty- seven, nineteen hundred and four

R. 4 W.

R. 3W. T. 14 S.

T. 15 S.

R. 5W.

T. 16 S.
T. 17S. R. 2 W. T. 18 S.

FILLMORE FOREST RESERVE,

UTAH . SALT LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, Ú. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE .
1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.

Forest Reserve Boundary.

39°

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION

DATED MAY 19, 1906)

-T. 19S.

R. 2½ W.

T. 20 S. T. 21 S.

R. 3W. R. 2% W.

T. 22 S.

R. 4% W. R. 4 W.

R. 2W. T. 23 S.

T. 24 S.

R. 3W. T. 25 S.

R.5 W. R.4%W. VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -26 35° 30 West from Washington.

R. 4 W.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3201

(33 Stat., 352) , said Indians ceded , granted , and relinquished to the United States all their right, title, and interest in and to the unallotted lands within the following boundaries, to wit :
Beginning at the northeast corner of the said Crow Indian Reservation ; thence running due south to a point lying due east of the northeast corner of the Fort Custer military reservation ; thence running due west to the northwest corner of said Fort Custer military reservation ; thence due south to the southwest corner of said Fort Custer military reservation ; thence due west to the intersection of the line between sections ten and eleven, township two south, range twenty-eight east of the Principal Meridian of Montana ; thence due north to the intersection of the Montana base line ; thence due west to the intersection of the western boundary of the Crow Indian Reservation ; thence in a northeasterly direction following the present boundary of said reservation to the point of beginning ;

Lands ceded .

AND, WHEREAS , Under the Act of Congress ratifying said

agreement, among other things, it was provided :

That

the

unallotted

lands,

except

such

lands

as

may

have

been

Lands to be sold subject to home-

withdrawn for reclamation under the act of June seventeen, nineteen stead , town-site

hundred and two (32 Stat. , 388 ) , and such tracts as may have been etcV.,oll.aw3s2., p. 388. reserved for thirty days after the date of opening as subject to the

preference right of entry of the purchasers of the improvements of

the former Indian claimants thereon, and except sections sixteen and

thirty-six, or lands selected in lieu thereof, which are reserved for

common school purposes and are granted to the State of Montana for

such purposes, shall be disposed of under the homestead , townsite,
and mineral land laws of the United States, and shall be opened to Proclamatio opening lands tno settlement and entry by proclamation of the President, which proc- settlement.

lamation shall prescribe the manner in which the lands may be set-

tled upon, occupied, and entered by persons entitled to make entry

thereof ; and no person shall be permitted to settle upon, occupy, or

enter any of said lands, except as prescribed in such proclamation ,

until after the expiration of sixty days from the time when the same are open to settlement and entry : Provided, That as to the lands

Proviso. Soldiers and sail-

opened under such proclamation , all rights of honorably discharged ofresct' edr.ights not afUnion soldiers and sailors of the late Civil and the Spanish war, or R. S. , secs. 2304,

the Philippine insurrection, as defined and described in sections 23V0o5l, . p3.14, 2p2.. 847. twenty-three hundred and four and twenty-three hundred and five of

the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of March first, nineteen

hundred and one ( 31 Stat., 847 ) , shall not be abridged ; NOW, THEREFORE, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT , Presi- Ceded lands

dent of the United States, by virtue of the power vested in me by the open to settlement.

said act of Congress, do hereby declare and make known that all of the unallotted lands in said reservation, except such as may at that time have been withdrawn for reclamation under said act of June

seventeenth, nineteen hundred and two, and such lands as may have been reserved as subject to the preference right of entry of the pur-

chasers of the improvements of the former Indian claimants thereon, and except sections sixteen and thirty-six, or lands selected in lieu

thereof, which are reserved for common school purposes for the State of Montana, will , on and after the sixteenth day of July, nineteen Open to entry

hundred and six, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, and not other- July 16, 1906. wise, be opened to settlement, entry, and disposition under the general provisions of the homestead, townsite, and mineral land laws of the United States.

And it is further provided that, commencing at 9 o'clock a. m. on Thursday, June 14, 1906, and ending at 6 o'clock p. m., Thursday, June 28 , 1906 , a registration will be held at Miles City and Billings, State of Montana, and Sheridan, State of Wyoming, for the purpose of ascertaining what persons desire to enter, settle upon, and acquire title to any of said ceded lands under the homestead law, and of ascertaining their qualifications so to do. To obtain registration eac.h

Registration.

3198

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Utah, shown as the Vernon Forest Reserve on

Lands excepted.

the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the prop United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that t exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of 1 .

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with

law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make set

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand a

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 24th day of A [ SEAL. ] in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred

six, and of the Independence of the United Stateone hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEV

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

May 3, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Ruby Mountains Forest Reserve, Ne- WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty- four of the

vada. Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ni

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for ot

poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory havin

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands whe part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of e value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Nevada, w hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart sn

as a public reservation;

dgis rida nM bevorqgs

Nevvaodrat. reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by

twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim are hereby reserved from entry or ettlement and set

Fublic Reservation, for the use of benefit of the people tracts of land, in the State of Novas shown as the Ruby M

Forest Reserve on the diagram for nga part hereof: Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force

which may have been, pr entry or covered by United S

been m make excep unles law un

red: Provide particular t unues to come lement waS TO

3202

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

applicant will be required to show himself duly qualified to make homestead entry of these lands under existing laws, by written appli-

cation to be made on a blank furnished only at the places herein desig

nated for registration, by the Commissioner of the General Land

Office, and to give the registering officers such appropriate matters of

description and identity as will protect the applicant and the govern-

ment against any attempted impersonation. Registration can not be

effected through the use of the mails or the employment of an agent,

R. S. , sec. 2304 , except that honorably discharged soldiers and sailors entitled to the

p. 422. Vol. 31 , p. 847.

benefits

of section

twenty-three

hundred

and

four

of the

Revised

Statutes of the United States, as amended by the act of Congress

approved March first , nineteen hundred and one (31 Stat. , 847 ) , may

present their applications for registration and due proofs of their

qualifications through an agent of their own selection , having a duly

executed power of attorney on a blank furnished by the Commis-

sioner of the General Land Office, but no person will be permitted to act as agent for more than one such soldier or sailor . No person

Applicants.

will be permitted to register more than once or in any other than his true name.
Each applicant who shows himself duly qualified will be registered

and given a nontransferable certificate to that effect, which will entitle

him to go upon and examine the lands to be opened hereunder ; but

the only purpose for which he can go upon and examine said lands is

that of enabling him later on, as herein provided , to understandingly

select the lands for which he may make entry. No one will be permitted to make settlement upon any of said lands in advance of the

opening herein provided for, and during the first sixty days following

said opening no one but registered applicants will be permitted to make homestead settlement upon any of said lands, and then only in

pursuance of a homestead entry duly allowed by the local land officers ,

Drawings.

or of a soldier's declaratory statement duly accepted by such officers. The order in which during the first sixty days following the open-
ing, the registered applicants will be permitted to make homestead entry of the lands opened hereunder, will be determined by a drawing for the district publicly held at Billings, Montana, commencing at 9 o'clock a . m., Monday, July 2, 1906 , and continuing for such period as may be necessary to complete the same. The drawing will be had. under the supervision and immediate observance of a committee of three persons whose integrity is such as to make their control of the drawing a guaranty of fairness. The members of this committee will

be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, who will prescribe suitable compensation for their services. Preparatory to this drawing the registration officers will, at the time of registering each applicant

who shows himself duly qualified , make out a card, which must be signed by the applicant, and giving such a description of the applicant as will enable the local land officers to thereafter identify him. This

card will be subsequently sealed in a separate envelope which will bear no other distinguishing label or mark than such as may be necessary to show that it is to go into the drawing. These envelopes will be carefully preserved and remain sealed until opened in the course of the drawing herein provided . When the registration is completed all of these sealed envelopes will be brought together at the place of the drawing and turned over to the committee in chargé of the drawing, who, in such manner as in their judgment will be attended with entire fairness and equality of opportunity, shall proceed to draw out and open the separate envelopes and to give to each inclosed card a number

in the order in which the envelope containing the same is drawn. The result of the drawing will be certified by the committee to the officers of the district and will determine the order in which the applicants may make homestead entry of said lands and settlement thereon.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3203

Notice of drawNotice of the drawings, stating the name of each applicant and ings. number assigned to him by the drawing, will be posted each day at
the place of drawing, and each applicant will be notified of his num-
ber and of the day upon which he must make his entry by a postal
card mailed to him at the address given by him at the time of registra-
tion. The result of each day's drawing will also be given to the press
to be published as a matter of news. Applications for homestead
entry of said lands during the first sixty days following the opening
can be made only by registered applicants and in the order established by the drawing.
How applications Commencing on Monday, July 16, 1906 , at 9 o'clock a. m., the appli- will be considered. cations of those drawing numbers 1 to 125, inclusive, must be presented at the land office in Billings, Montana, in the land district in which said lands are situated , and will be considered in their numerical order during the first day, and the applications of those drawing numbers 126 to 250, inclusive, must be presented and will be considered in their numerical order during the second day, and so on at that rate until all of said lands subject to entry under the homestead law, and desired thereunder, have been entered . If any applicant fails to appear and present his application for entry when the number assigned to him by the drawing is reached, his right to enter will be
passed until after the other applications assigned for that day have been disposed of, when he will be given another opportunity to make entry, failing in which he will be deemed to have abandoned his right to make entry under such drawing.
To obtain the allowance of a homestead entry, each applicant must Certificates of registration.
personally present the certificate of registration theretofore issued to him, together with a regular application and the necessary accompanying proofs, together with the regular land office fees, but an hon-
orably discharged soldier or sailor may file his declaratory statement through his agent, who can represent but one soldier or sailor as in
the matter of registration. Payments.
Persons who make homestead entry for any of the ceded lands will
be required to pay four dollars per acre, payment in all cases to be
made as follows : One dollar per acre at the time of entry, and the
remainder to be paid in four equal, annual installments, the first
installment to be paid at the end of the second year. Upon all entries the usual fee and commissions shall be paid, as provided for in

the homestead laws on lands the price of which is one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre.
In case any entryman fails to make the payments herein provided for, or any of them, promptly when due, all rights in and to the lands covered by his or her entry shall at once cease, and any pay-

Forfeiture.

ments theretofore made shall be forfeited, and the entry shall be held for cancellation and canceled , and the land embraced therein shall thereupon be subject to entry at the price and upon the terms above set forth. Lands entered under the town-site and mineral land laws

shall be paid for in amount and manner as provided by said laws,
but in no case at a less price than that fixed for such lands if entered under the homestead laws.
Rejection of apThe production of the certificate of registration will be dispensed plication. with only upon satisfactory proof of its loss or destruction . If at the time of considering his regular application for entry it appears that
an applicant is disqualified from making homestead entry of these
lands, his application will be rejected , notwithstanding his prior registration. If any applicant shall register more than once hereunder, or in any other than his true name, or shall transfer his registration certificate, he will thereby lose all the benefits of the registration and
drawing herein provided for , and will be precluded from entering

3204

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

Town sites.

or settling upon any of said lands during the first sixty days following said opening.
Any person or persons desiring to found, or to suggest establishing,
a town site upon any of the said lands, at any point, may, at any time before the opening herein provided for, file in the land office a written application to that effect, describing by legal subdivisions the lands intended to be affected, and stating fully and under oath the necessity
or propriety of founding or establishing a town at that place. The local officers will forthwith transmit said petition to the Commissioner of the General Land Office with their recommendation in the

Disposal of maining lands.

premises. Such Commissioner, if he believes the public interests will be subserved thereby, will, if the Secretary of the Interior approve 'thereof, issue an order withdrawing the lands described in such petition, or any portion thereof, from homestead entry, and settlement and directing that the same be held for the time being for disposal under the townsite laws of the United States in such manner as the
Secretary of the Interior may from time to time direct ; and, if at any time after such withdrawal has been made it is determined that the lands so withdrawn are not needed for town site purposes they may be
released from such withdrawal and then disposed of under the general provisions of the homestead laws in the manner prescribed herein. re- All persons are especially admonished that under the said act of
Congress approved March 3, 1905, it is provided that no person shall be permitted to settle upon, occupy, or enter any of said lands, except in the manner prescribed in this proclamation , until after the expiration of sixty days from the time when the same are opened to settlement and entry, and the lands are not subject to mineral exploration or location during that period . After the expiration of said period of sixty days, but not before, as hereinbefore prescribed, any of said lands which are non -mineral, remaining undisposed of, may be settled upon, occupied, and entered under the general provisions of the homestead and townsite laws of the United States in like manner as if the

Regulations.

manner of effecting such settlement, occupancy, and entry had not been prescribed herein in obedience to law, and such of said lands as are mineral will then be subject to the provisions of the mining laws.
The Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe all needful rules and regulations necessary to carry into full effect the opening herein provided for.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington this 24th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL . ] six , and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3205

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 28, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas,

in

pursuance

of

an

Act

of the

Congress

of the

United

Jamestown, Tercentennial

Va., cele-

States, approved March 3, 1905, entitled "An Act To provide for bration. Preamble.
celebrating the birth of the American nation, the first permanent set- Vol. 33 , p. 1046.

tlement of English-speaking people on the Western Hemisphere, by

the holding of an international naval, marine, and military celebra-

tion in the vicinity of Jamestown, on the waters of Hampton Roads,

in the State of Virginia ; to provide for a suitable and permanent com-

memoration of said event, and to authorize an appropriation in aid

thereof, and for other purposes," a proclamation by the President of the United States was duly made and published on March 29, 1905 , Ante, p. 2997.

declaring that there shall be inaugurated on and near the waters of

Hampton Roads, in the State of Virginia, an international naval ,

marine, and military celebration, beginning May 13 and ending not

later than November 1 , 1907, for the purpose of commemorating the

events set forth in said Act ; which said proclamation also invited all

the nations of the earth to take part therein by sending their naval

vessels to the said celebration, and by making such representations of

their military organizations as may be practicable ;

And Whereas Section 3 of said Act authorizes the President

* * " to have such portions of our Army and Navy assembled there

during the said celebration as may be compatible with the public service. And the President is also authorized to invite participation

in said celebration by the militia of the several States, but at their

own expense. ";

And Whereas accordingly in due season the necessary directions

will be issued to the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy

for the assembling, upon said occasion, of such portions of our Army

and Navy as will fittingly represent these branches of the public

service ;

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Militia invited to attend the celebra-

States, by virtue of the authority vested in me by said Act and in the tion.

name of the Government of the United States, do hereby invite the Governors of the several States and Territories to participate, but at

their own expense, in said celebration by sending such organizations of the militia as, in their judgment, will afford proper military repre-

sentation. The historic nature of this celebration renders it peculiarly

appropriate that the representation of the militia should be com-

mensurate with the interest and pride of our people in their citizensoldiery who have in the many ordeals of our Colonial and National

life met their military obligations with superb self-sacrifice and devotion .

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington , this 28th day of May, in

the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[ SEAL. ]

six, and of the Independence of the United States, the one hundred and thirtieth.

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Secretary of State.

3206

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

May 28, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Bear River Forest Reserve, Idaho

WHEREAS, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of

and Utah.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

Preamble. Vol. 26 , p. 1103. entitled, " An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses ", " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not , as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands, in the States of Idaho and Utah, which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Idaho and Utah.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do proclaim that there

Lands

excepted .

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the States of Idaho and Utah, shown as the Bear River Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired: Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman , settler or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

Vol. 33, p. 2307. ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. Whereas, a portion of the land shown as the Bear River Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof was reserved by

proclamation of May twenty-ninth , nineteen hundred and three, and

designated as " The Logan Forest Reserve " ;

Bear River Forest Reserve estab- And whereas, it appears desirable that the several tracts hereby

ltihsehedLoignanplaFcoereosft reserved should be known by one name, the title, " The Logan Forest

Reserve.

Reserve " is hereby abolished , and the reservation established by this

proclamation shall be known as the Bear River Forest Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 28th day of May, in

the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL. ] six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

BOISE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. R. 41 E. R. 42 E.
T. 9 S.

R. 35 E. R. 36 E.

T. 11 S.

R. 37 E.

T. 12 S.

R. 38 E.

T. 13S.

T. 14 S.

T. 10 S. T. 11 S. T. 12 S. T. 13 S. T 14 S.

R. 43 E.

T. 15 S.

T. 16 S.

42

T. 15 N.

T. 14 N.

T. 15 S. R. 40 E.
T. 16 S. IDAHO UTAH. T. 15N.
T. 14 N.

SALT LAKE MERIDIAN R. 3W. AND BASE LINE.

R. 2W.

T. 13 N.

R. 5E.

BEAR RIVER FOREST RESERVE.
IDAHO UTAH . FOREST SERVICE, U S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE
1905 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary.
[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MAY 28, 1906.]

T. 12 N. T. 11 N.

R. 2 E.

R. 3 E.

R. 4. E.

35° Westfrom Washington.

I

i

35° R. 15 W.
T.5 N.
T. 4 N.

R. 14 W.
R. 13W. 1st Stan. Par. North.

T. 3 N.

T.2 N.

WICHITA FOREST RESERVE , OKLAHOMA .
INDIAN MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE. 1906 .
Forest Reserve Boundary.
[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MAY 29, 1906.J

West from Washington.

21°30

721 TIN 713 TES 735 765 753 Test TPS TOS

ROL R7E

TIOS
R/L TH3

ENINOAM

RIBW

RE

AUL FISE
73N T2N
ROW NOW RAW T13 723 733 743
I 755

RIGH

TIGH WYOMING BOUNDARY

730 UTAN

LINE

RIPE

2:R08

TIN

TIS

TRS

9206

RESE

135

RZW RIW RIL FIZE

RUFIEONSRTEARSVTE WUYTOAMHING
ASFD.OU.EGOEFSRR.PVIETICSCUTELTURE 1906
pGfClro.aomLtmpasiled BRFo oerusenesdrtavrey
PFDOAORIAFROAMCGTILRNAGMATION 2,1DM9A90YT0L1D

Wf3aer3ssohtmington

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906 .

3207

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 29, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, the Wichita Forest Reserve, in the Territory of Oklahoma , was established by proclamation dated July fourth, nineteen hundred and one ;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress , approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An act making

Wichita Forest Reserve, Okla.
Preamble. Vol. 32, p. 1973.
Vol. 30, p. 36.

appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety- eight,

and for other purposes." that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modifica-

tion may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by
adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the Territory of
Oklahoma, which are in part covered with timber ; Boundaries en-
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the afore-
said act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, do proclaim that the aforesaid Wichita Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are, accordingly, now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

Lands excepted.

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land
unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the
law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made. Reserved from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement. ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 29th day of May, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL. ]

six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

May 29, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS , the Uinta Forest Reserve, in the State of Utah, was Uinta Forest Re.serve. Utah.
established by proclamation dated February twenty-second , eighteen Preamble.
hundred and ninety-seven, under the name of the Uintah Forest Re- Vol. 29, p. 895.

serve,

and

was

subsequently

enlarged,

by

proclamations

dated

July

Ante, pp. 3186.

3116,

fourteenth, nineteen hundred and five, and January sixteenth , nine-

3208

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

Post, p. 3240.

teen hundred and six, to include additional lands in the States of Utah and Wyoming ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further changing the boundaries of the said forest reserve to re-

lease and exclude therefrom certain lands in the States of Utah and

Wyoming ;

Boundaries

modified.

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven,

Vol. 30, p . 36.

entitled , "An Act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety -eight, and for other purposes," do proclain that the said lands are hereby released and excluded from the aforesaid Uinta Forest Reserve, and that the boundaries of the reserve are,

accordingly, now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.

Excluded lands open to settlement.

The lands hereby excluded from the reserve and restored to the

public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but

shall not be subject to entry, filing, or selection until after ninety days notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 29th day of May, in

[ SEAL. ]

the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six , and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

T. ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

June 2, 1:06.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

Shoshone or

. Wind River Reser- WHEREAS , By an agreement between the Shoshone and Arapa-

vation, Wyo. Preamble.

hoe tribes of Indians, belonging to the Shoshone or Wind River reser-

vation in the State of Wyoming, on the one part, and James Mc-

Laughlin, a United States Indian Inspector, on the other part.

amended and ratified by act of Congress approved March third,
CVeosls. i3on3, opf. 1u0n1a6l.- nineteen hundred and five ( 33 Stat. , 1016 ) , the said Indian tribes lotted lands in.
ceded, granted , and relinquished to the United States all the right,

title, and interest which they may have had to all of the unallotted

lands embraced within said reservation, except the lands within and

bounded by the following described lines :

Lands

excepted.

Beginning in the midchannel of the Big Wind River at a point where said stream crosses the western boundary of the said reservation ; thence in a southeasterly direction following the midchannel of the Big Wind River to its conjunction with the Little Wind or Big Popo-Agie River, near the northeast corner of township one south, range four east ; thence up the midchannel of the Big Popo-Agie River in a southwesterly direction to the mouth of the North Fork of the said Big Popo-Agie River ; thence up the midchannel of said North Fork of the Big Popo-Agie River to its intersection with the southern boundary of the said reservation, near the southwest corner of section twenty-one, township two south, range one west ; thence due west along the said southern boundary of the said reservation to the southwest corner of the same ; thence north along the western boundary of said reservation to the place of beginning.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3209

Opening of lands AND, WHEREAS, It was provided by said act of March three, to entry. nineteen hundred and five, that said unallotted lands ceded to the Vol. 33, p. 1021. United States under said agreement should be disposed of unger the Ante, p. 849.

provisions of the homestead , townsite, coal and mineral land laws

of the United States, and should be opened to settlement and entry by proclamation of the President of the United States on June fifteenth, nineteen hundred and six, which proclamation shall prescribe the manner in which the lands shall be settled upon, occupied,

Date of opening.

and entered by persons permitted to make entry thereof, and no

person shall be permitted to settle upon, occupy or enter said lands

except as prescribed in said proclamation , until after the expiration

of sixty days from the time when the same are open to settlemen;

and entry ; and the rights of honorably discharged soldiers and sailors

of the late civil and Spanish wars, as defined and described in sections

twenty-three hundred and four and twenty-three hundred and five of

the Revised Statutes of the United States, as amended by the act of

March one, nineteen hundred and one, shall not be abridged ;

AND ,

WHEREAS ,

The

time

for the

opening

of

said

unallotted

Time of opening extended to August

lands was extended to the fifteenth day of August, nineteen hundred 15, 1906.

and six, unless the President shall determine that the same may be

opened at an earlier date, by Public Resolution of Congress, approved

March twenty-eighth, nineteen hundred and six (Public Resolution Ante, p. 825.

No. Twelve ) ;

NOW, THEREFFOORRE,

I,

THEODORE

ROOSEVELT,

Ceded lands Presi- open to settlement.

dent of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me Vol. 33, p. 1020.

vested by the said Act and Resolution of Congress, do hereby declare

and make known that all the unallotted lands in the ceded portion of said reservation, except such as may at that time have been reserved

for carrying out the provisions of said amended treaty relative to the rights of Asmus Boysen, allowing him to locate in accordance with the Government surveys not to exceed six hundred and forty acres in the form of a square, of mineral or coal lands in said reservation, and to purchase the same, will, on and after the fifteenth day of August, nineteen hundred and six, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, and

not otherwise, be opened to settlement , entry, and disposition under

the general provisions of the homestead, townsite, coal , and mineral land laws of the United States.

And it is further directed and provided that commencing at nine Places of regis o'clock a. m. , on Monday July 16, 1906, and ending at six o'clock tration.

p. m., Tuesday, July 31 , 1906, a registration will be held at Lander,

Shoshoni, and Thermopolis ; also, at Worland, provided that the Big

Proviso. Big Horn Rail-

Horn Railroad, ' now in course of construction, shall be completed road.

and doing a passenger traffic to that place on July 16, 1906, for the

purpose of ascertaining the names and qualifications of all persons who desire to enter, settle upon, or acquire title to any of said ceded lands under the homestead laws.
To obtain registration for the purpose of making a homestead entry

Applicants.

of any of said ceded lands each applicant will be required to show himself duly qualified under the law to make such entry, and this showing must be made by the presentation of a sworn application for registration executed on a blank furnished by the Commissioner of

the General Land Office which can be obtained only at the time and

places of registration herein mentioned , and each person registering
must give the registering officer such appropriate matters of description and identification as will protect the applicant and the Govern-
ment against any attempted impersonation. Registration can not be affected through the use of the mails or the Restrictions on
employment of an agent, excepting that honorably discharged soldiers registration. and sailors entitled to the benefits of Section twenty-three hundred
VOL XXXIV, PT 3--27

3210

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

R. 8. , sec. 2304, and four of the Revised Statutes of the United States, as amended by p. 422.
the Act of Congress approved March one, nineteen hundred and one Vol 31, p. 847.
(31 Stat., 847 ) , may present their applications for registration for the purpose of making a homestead entry and make due proof of their qualifications through an agent of their own selection having a duly executed power of attorney on a blank furnished by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, but no person will be permitted to act as

Certificate registration.
Drawings.

agent for more than one soldier or sailor. No person will be mitted to register more than once, nor will he be permitted to register
perof in any other than his true name.
Each applicant who shows himself duly qualified will be registered and given a non-transferable certificate to that effect, and each person holding such certificate will be entitled to go upon any ceded lands
subject to entry hereunder and examine such lands, but the only pur-
pose for which he can go upon and examine such lands is to enable him later on, as herein provided, to understandingly select the lands for which he may make entry.
The order in which during the first sixty days following the open-

ing the registered applicants will be permitted to make homestead entry of lands opened hereunder will be determined by a drawing for the district, held at Lander, Wyoming, commencing at nine o'clock a. m., Saturday, August 4, 1906, and continuing for such period neces-

sviasriyotno acnodmpliemtmeedtihaetsea. moeb.serTvhaencderaowfinagcwoimlmlibtetheeadoufndtherretehepesruspoenrs-

Notice.
Applications Post, p. 3222.

whose integrity is such as to make their control of the drawing a
guaranty of its fairness. The members of this committee will be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior, who will prescribe suitable compensation for their services. Preparatory to this drawing the registration officers will, at the time of registering each applicant who
shows himself duly qualified , make out a card which must be signed by the applicant, and give such a description of the applicant as will enable the local land officers to thereafter identify him. This card
will be subsequently sealed in a separate envelope which will bear no other distinguishing label or mark than such as may be necessary to show that it is to go into the drawing. These envelopes will be carefully preserved and remain sealed until opened in the course of the drawing herein provided. of these sealed envelopes wilWlhbeenbtrhoeugrhetgitstorgaettihoenr iast ctohmeplpeltaecde aolfl drawing and turned over to the committee in charge of the drawing
who, in such manner as in their judgment will be attended with entire fairness and equality of opportunity, shall proceed to draw out and
open the separate envelopes and to give to each inclosed card a number in the order in which the envelope containing the same is drawn.
The result of the drawing will be certified to the officers of the district and will determine the order in which the applicants may make
homestead entry of said lands and settlement thereon. Notices of the drawing, stating the name of each applicant and the
number assigned to him by the drawing, will be posted each day at the place of the drawing, and each applicant will be notified of his number and the day upon which he must make his entry, by a postal card mailed to him at the address given by him at the time of the registration. The result of each day's drawing will also be given to the press and published as a matter of news. Applications for homestead entry during the sixty days following the opening can be made only by registered applicants and in the order established by the drawing.
 Commencing August fifteenth, nineteen hundred and six , at nine o'clock a . m., the applications of those persons drawing numbers 1 to
100, inclusive, entitling them to make homestead entries, must be

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3211

presented at the land office at Lander, Wyoming, in the land district in which the said lands are situated and will be considered in

their numerical order during the first day, and the applications of those drawing numbers 101 to 200, inclusive, entitling them to make homestead entries, must be presented and will be considered in their

numerical order during the second day, and so on, Sundays excluded , at the rate of 100 such applications per day until and including August twenty-fifth, nineteen hundred and six ; on and after August twenty-seventh, nineteen hundred and six, such applications will be considered in like manner at the rate of 120 per day, Sundays excluded, until and including September sixth, nineteen hundred and six ; on and after September seventh, nineteen hundred and six,

such applications will be considered at the rate of 140 per day, Sundays excluded , until and including September eighteenth, nineteen hundred and six ; on and after September nineteenth, nineteen hun-

dred and six, such applications will be considered at the rate of 160 per day, Sundays excluded, until and including September twentyninth, nineteen hundred and six ; and on and after October one, nine-

teen hundred and six, such applications will be considered at the rate of 170 per day, Sundays excluded, until and including October thir-

teenth, nineteen hundred and six , the expiration of the sixty day
period. Failure to pre-
If any applicant fails to appear and present his application to sent.
make a homestead entry, when the number assigned to him by the
drawing is reached , his application to enter will be passed until after
the other applications assigned to that day have been disposed of

when he will , on that day be given another opportunity to make

entry, and if he fails to do so he will be deemed to have abandoned

his right to make entry under such drawing.

Presentation of

To obtain the allowance of a homestead entry each applicant will registration certifi-

personally present the certificate of registration theretofore issued to cate.

him, together with a regular homestead application and the necessary accompanying proofs, together with the regular land office fees,

but an honorably discharged soldier or sailor may file his declaratory

statement through his agent, who can represent but one soldier or

sailor as in the matter of registration. The production of the certificate of registration will be dispensed

Entries.

with only upon satisfactory proof of its loss or destruction. If, at

the time of considering the regular application to enter, it appears

that the applicant is disqualified from making homestead entry on

these lands his application will be rejected notwithstanding his prior registration . If any applicant shall register more than once hereunder or in any other than his true name, or shall transfer his registration certificate, he will thereby lose all the benefits of the registration and drawing herein provided for and will be precluded from

entering or settling upon any of said lands during the first sixty days following the opening.
Persons who make homestead entries for any of the ceded lands within two years after the opening of the same to entry shall pay one dollar and fifty cents per acre for the lands embraced in their entries and for all of the ceded lands thereafter entered under the homestead

Price.

laws the sum of one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre shall be paid, payment in all cases to be made as follows:
Fifty cents per acre at the time of making entry and twenty-five cents per acre each year thereafter until the price per acre hereinbefore provided shall have been fully paid. Upon all entries the usual fees and commissions shall be paid as provided for in the homestead laws on lands the price of which is one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre.

Payments. Fees.

3212

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

Forfeiture.

In case any entryman fails to make the payments hereinbefore pro-

vided for under homestead entries within the time stated, the right of

said entryman to the lands covered by his or her entry shall be for-

Townsites .

feited and the entry will be canceled . Any person or persons desiring to found, or to suggest establishing
a townsite upon any of the said lands, at any point may, at any time before the opening herein provided for, file in the land office a written application to that effect, describing by legal subdivisions the lands intended to be affected , and stating fully and under oath the necessity or propriety of founding or establishing a town at that place. The local officers will forthwith transmit said petition to the Commissioner of the General Land Office with their recommendations in the premises. Such Commissioner, if he believes the public interests will be subserved thereby will, if the Secretary of the Interior approve thereof, issue an order withdrawing the lands described in such petition, or any portion thereof, from homestead entry and settlement and directing that the same be held for the time being for disposal under the townsite laws of the United States in such manner as the Secre-

Mineral tions.

loca-

tary of the Interior may from time to time direct ; and, if at any time after such withdrawal has been made it is determined that the lands so withdrawn are not needed for townsite purposes, they may be released from such withdrawal and then disposed of under the general provisions of the homestead laws in the manner prescribed herein.
The lands entered under the townsite, coal and mineral land laws
shall be paid for in amount and manner provided by the laws under

which they are entered , and unless entry and payment under mineral

locations shall be made within three years from date of location all

rights thereunder shall cease. -Entry of undis- All persons are especially admonished that under said act of Conposed lands Vol . 33, p . 1016. gress approved March three, nineteen hundred and five , it is provided
that no person shall be permitted to settle upon, occupy, or enter any
of said lands except in the manner prescribed in this proclamation until after the expiration of sixty days from the time when the same
are opened to settlement and entry. After the expiration of said
period of sixty days, but not before, as herein prescribed , any of said lands remaining undisposed of may be settled upon , occupied , entered , or located under the general provisions of the homestead, townsite, coal and mineral land laws of the United States in like manner as if

Regulations.

the manner affecting such settlement, occupancy, entry, and location had not been prescribed herein in obedience to law.
The Secretary of the Interior shall prescribe all needful rules and

regulations necessary to carry into full effect the opening herein provided for.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2nd day of June in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[ SEAL. ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

34-365.957

14A

13N. 12M.
DW. IN ION. ON. ON. 7N GN SN zow
3N

MW. 15W.

MW

ISW.

12W.

uw. IOW.

IN. J7WEST FROM WASHINGTON

HELL GATE FOREST RESERVE MONTANA
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE FOREST SERVICE, U S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE. 1906: Compiled from G. L. O. Plats Forest Reserve Boundary
[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED JUNE 2, 1908)

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3213

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

June 2, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

the

Hell

Gate

Forest

Reserve,

in the

State

of

Mon-

Hell Gate Forest Reserve, Mont.

tana, was established by proclamation dated October third, nineteen Preamble.

hundred and five ;

Ante, p. 3168. Post, p. 3230.

And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June Vol. 30, p. 36.

fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled , "An Act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;
And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by

adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

Montana, which are in part covered with.timber ;

Boundaries en-

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the afore

said Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, do proclaim that the aforesaid Hell Gate Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

boundaries of the reserve are, accordingly, now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made,

Reserv from

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle- settlement

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 2nd day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL. ]

six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President . ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3214

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

June 6, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

Uncompahgre Indian Reservation, Utah.
Preamble. Vol. 30, p. 87.
opUennalfloortteldocaltainodns; etc.

Whereas, by the act of Congress approved June 7 , 1897 ( 30 Stats. ,
87) it was provided :
The Secretary is hereby directed to allot agricultural lands in severalty to the Uncompalgre Ute Indians now located upon or belonging to the Uncompahgre Indians Reservation in the State of Utah, said allotments to be upon the Uncompahgre and Uintah Reservations or elsewhere in said State. And all the

lands of said Uncompahgre Reservation not theretofore allotted in severalty to

said Uncompahgre Utes shall, on and after the first day of April, eighteen hun-

dred and ninety-eight, be open for location and entry under all the land laws of

the United States ; excepting, however, therefrom all lands containing gilsonite,

asphalt, elaterite, or other like substances.

Title to gllsonite, etc. , lands re-

And the title to all of the said lands containing gilsonite, asphaltum, elaterite,

served.

or other like substances, is reserved to the United States.

Vol. 32, p . 998. And whereas, it is provided by the act of Congress approved

March 3, 1903 ( 32 Stats. , 998) , entitled " An Act making appropria-

tions for the current and contingent expenses of the Indian Depart-

ment," etc., as follows:

Mining lands lo- That in the lands within the former Uncompahgre Indian Reservation, in the

cated on, prior to State of Utah, containing gilsonite, asphaltum, elaterite, or other like substances, Jvaalniuda. ry 1, 1891 , which were reserved from location and entry by provision in the Act of Congress
entitled ' An Act making appropriations for the current and contingent expenses

of the Indian Department, and for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various

Vol. 30, p. 87. Indian tribes, for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and

ninety-eight, and for other purposes,' approved June seventh, eighteen hundred

and ninety-seven, all discoveries and locations of any such mineral lands by

qualified persons prior to January first, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, not

previously discovered and located, who recorded notices of such discoveries and

locations prior to January first, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, either in the

State of Colorado, or in the office of the County recorder of Uintah County, Utah,

shall have all the force and effect accorded by law to locations of mining claims

Patents to issue upon the public domain. All such locations may hereafter be perfected, and of raeliomcsa.tion, etc., patents shall be issued therefor upon compliance with the requirements of the
inineral land laws, provided that the owners of such location shall relocate their

respective claims and record the same in the office of the County recorder of

aftCelral located Uintah County, Utah, within ninety days after the passage of this Act. All

nuary 1891 , in lid.

1, locations of any such mineral lands made and recorded on or subsequent to

Sale of

January first, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, are hereby declared to be null

of mineralmainder and void ; and the remainder of the lands heretofore reserved as aforesaid be-

nds. cause of the mineral substances contained in them , in so far as the same may

be within even numbered sections, shall be sold and disposed of in tracts not

Restrictions. exceeding forty acres, or a quarter of a quarter of a section, in such manner and upon such terms and with such restrictions as may be prescribed in a proclama-

tion of the President of the United States issued for that purpose not less than

one hundred and twenty days after the passage of this Act. and not less than

ninety days before the time of sale or disposal, and the balance of said lands

nd also all the mineral therein are hereby specifically reserved for future action
·Congress.
Sale of evennumbered mineral ow, therefore, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the sections.
Unid States of America, by virtue of the power vested in me by law,

do heby declare and make known that the even -numbered sections

Vol. 30, p. 87. of sur yed lands in said former Uncompahgre Indian Reservation in Utal heretofore reserved by said Act of June 7, 1897 , to the

Lands excepted. United Sates as containing deposits of gilsonite, asphaltum, elaterite or other lie substances, saving and excepting such of said even num-
bered section as may be appropriated and claimed under discoveries and locations made and recorded prior to January first, eighteen.

Vol. 32, p. 998. hundred and nety-one, and relocated and re-recorded as specified by said Act of March third, nineteen hundred and three ( 32 Stat. ,

998) and saving and excepting lands allotted to Indians, and all other
lands legally reserved or appropriated, shall be offered for sale upon UtBaihds. at Vernal, sealed bids at the Vernal, Utah, and office in tracts not exceeding

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3215 .

forty acres in the aggregate, or the smallest legal subdivision approxi-

inating that area ;

and that the even numbered sections of said lands,

Disposal sold lands.

of

un.

now unsurveyed, after the date on which the township plat of survey

thereof is officially filed in the local land office in the usual manner,

as well as any of the lands offered at this sale remaining unsold may

be advertised and sealed bids invited therefor upon the same terms at

the same place and at such time as may be specified in a public notice duly given by direction of the Secretary of the Interior. Inasmuch as the government is unable to determine definitely those tracts in the

surveyed even numbered sections principally valuable for deposits of gilsonite, asphaltum, elaterite or other like substances bids may be offered for any forty-acre tract or lot approximating that area subject to the regulations as to proof of character of the land , to be hereafter issued.
The bids for the lands offered will be opened at the Vernal, Utah, land office on Saturday, September 15, 1906, commencing at one o'clock P. M., mountain standard time, and will continue from day to day until all bids have been examined.
All bids to receive consideration must be filed in the district land

Opening bids. Filing bias.

office at Vernal, Utah, before 4:30 o'clock P. M. of the day preceding that set for the opening of the bids.
The right is reserved to reject any and all bids.

Rejectio , etc.

As an individual , or as a member of an association, the purchaser chaAsgeer.limit of pur must be twenty -one years of age and a citizen of the United States or
have declared his intention to become such citizen.
Bids for said lands shall be in accordance with such form , and at Regulations.

such minimum price as shall be prescribed by the Secretary of the

Interior who shall also prescribe all additional rules and regulations necessary to carry into full effect the sale herein provided for.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

[ SEAL. ]

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of June in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Secretary of State.

A PROCLAMATION BY THE PRESIDENT.

June 15 , 1906.

Halley Land Dis-

Whereas, on May 2, 1904, proclamation was issued ( 33 Stat., 2343 ) trict, Idaho.

withdrawing certain tracts of land in the Hailey Land District,

Preamble. Vol. 33, p. 2343..

Idaho, as therein described, for disposition under the provisions of R. S. secs. 2380,

Sections 2380 and 2381 of the Revised Statutes of the United States ; 2381 , p. 436.

And whereas, it is deemed advisable that certain lands be eliminated Ante, p. 116.

from the provisions of said proclamation, to be utilized for town site

purposes under the act approved April 16, 1906-Public 103 ;

Now, therefore,

I, Theodore

Roosevelt ,

President

of the

United

Lands reserved under reclamation

States, do hereby declare and make known that there shall be excluded act excluded. from the lands described in the said proclamation of May 2 , 1904, Vol. 33, p. 2343.

certain lands hereinafter described, but the said lands shall for a

period of ten days from the date hereof remain reserved from settle-

ment, entry or occupation under any of the public land laws, except

3216 Ante, p. 116, Description.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

that the Secretary of the Interior may during said period of ten days withdraw such tracts for disposition in accordance with the provisions
of the said Act of April 16, 1906. The lands to be excluded from the
operation of the said proclamation for town site purposes are as follows :
In Township nine south, range twenty-four east, Boise Meridian, north half of the southeast quarter and south half of the northeast quarter of section one ; southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section twenty ; north half of the northeast quarter and northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section twenty nine.
In Township ten south, range twenty-three east, Boise Meridian, northwest quarter of Section fifteen.

In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 15th day of June in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL . ]

six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

June 25, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Lincoln Forest Reserve. N. Mex.

WHEREAS , the Lincoln Forest Reserve, in the Territory of New

Preamble.

Mexico, was established by proclamation dated July twenty- sixth ,

AVnolte. ,32p,. p3. 127051. 8. bineteen hundred and two, and the boundaries thereof were subse-

quently modified by proclamation dated October third , nineteen hun-

dred and five ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by enlarging the said forest reserve to include certain additional

lands, in the Territory of New Mexico, which are in part covered with

timber ;

Boundaries en-

larged .

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven ,

entitled , "An Act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of Vol. 30, p. 36. the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen

hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that

the aforesaid Lincoln Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are ,

Lands excepted.

accordingly, now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the

law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

Reserved from settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

R. 11 E. 12 R 13E. R. 14 E. R. 15 E. R. 16 E. R. 17E. R. 18 E. T. 7S.

T. 8 S. R. 10 E.
T.9 S. R. 9. E.

19 915

195

TO

10

U.SFo.rMtarSitnaentHoonspital Reserve.
2d Stan. Par South

T. 10 S. T. 11 S.

T. 12 S.

M
R. 10 E. R. 11 E. IN D A

E IS ERV

T. 13S. T. 14S.

R. 12 E.

T. 15S. 33

LINCOLN FOREST RESERVE ,

NEW MEXICO .

NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERDIAN AND BASE.

Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.

FOREST SERVICE. U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE.

1906 .

-

Forest Reserve Boundary.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PRCCLAMATION DATED JUNE 25, 1906 ]

29°Westfrom Washington.

!

PACIFIC

RE.10

ER. II

RE.12

ER1.3

RE1.4

ER.15

R. .16E E1R.7

ASUNCION

MORRO CAYUCOS
SAN
SLAUNISITEOL OCTHHSOEARRNRO OLBUIISSPO

RGARIT MA

CDPEOIERDRRAAL

ARROYO GRANDE

R. .18E

1RF.9

RE..20
TS.28
ORLSFUEBOAISIRNSESRSPVTOE CALIFORNIA
PS8ONM.DATIOEFTRAARANBTILLDHDLOAIERALDN TS2..9 MBSOPS8AETEFAORRARUNAINNTLDDAHLIAERARLDNDINO
pGfCl.roaLomtOmps.iled FAO.DSU.OEFGERPREVTISICTCUELTURE 1906
T. .30S FBRooersuensrdtvaery
TS..31

N A E C O

WR.33

RW..32

WR..31

CUYAMA SBARNBTAARNAO.I

RFEOSREERSVTE-

CUYAMA N.2 O
.RRW..232908W WR2..7

W4f°are3osmhtington

S8Patorauanltdlhaertd

3T..2.6 N1T..2

IT.I.N.

RW.26

R. .25W

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,
[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ROBERT BACON Acting Secretary of State.

3217

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

June 25, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the act of FoSraenstLuRies sOebrivspeo,

Congress,

approved

March

third,

eighteen

hundred

and

ninety-one,

Cal Preamble.

entitled, " An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur- Vol. 26, p 1103.

poses," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by

public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations

and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of California , which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart
said lands as a public reservation ; Forest reserve,
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United California. States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by section
twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Pub-

lic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of California , shown as the San Luis Obispo

Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted.

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided , that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

Warning

is

hereby

expressly

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

Reserved settlement.

from

settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
[SEAL. ] six , and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

3218 June 25, 1906.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906. BY THE PRESident of the United StaTES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Monterey Forest

Reserve, Cal.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty-four of the act of

Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

entitled, "An act to repeal timber -culture laws, and for other pur-

poses," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of California , which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ; Forest reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United California. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there
are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public
Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of California , shown as the Monterey Forest Re-
serve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Lands excepted. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to make settle-

ment upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[ SEAL . ]

six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

June20, 1906,

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Black Mesa Forest Reserve . Ariz.

WHEREAS, the Black Mesa Forest Reserve, in the Territory of

Preamble.

Arizona, was established by proclamation dated August seventeenth,

Vol. 30, p. 1782. Vol. 30, p. 36.

eighteen hundred and ninety- eight ;

And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June

fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled , "An Act mak-

ing appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for

the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

RIE.

R.2 E.

R.3 E

R. 4 E.

TULARC LOS ITOS

R.SE.

R.OE. .R.7 E

PACIFIC

EL SUR
O C E A N
MONTEREY FOREST RESERVE , CALIFORNIA
MT, DIABLO MERIDIAN AND BASE FOREST SERVICE, US DEPT OF AGRICULTURE,
1908 Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary.
VOL XXXIV, PT 3-28

T.18 S. T.19 S.

T.20 S.

LOS MILPITAS

T.215. T.22 S.

ITO UEL MIG
SAN

44° 30 Westfrom Washington.

EL PIOJO

T.23 S. T.245.

7N.15
1N4 7.13N T.12N
R7..E6E

FSR.MATROESNARNECSITSCO

BLACK

1/R21E3485
ITON RFT. EOSRNETRSOVTE

T. .9N WHI
TE

MFR, EOESRZEEARSVTE

ARIZONA

1. 906

GASRMB. IAENVLSRDEAITRDIAN AFS,UDOEGFOSRRPVIETICSCUTELTURE

CfGLOR. .oremocpmoirldesd BFRoerusensrdtvaery
[DFAPOAFRIOROATCGMLRIANMGATION DJ3,1)9A0U0TN6.EED

fW,3°are4soshmtington

3S.PNt.adarn R2ERE3..1234567890R.

OT N MOU NTA IN

7TN
T6N.
T.5N 1SP:Nsotatrartnh
7.4N

INDIAN

T3. .N T2N T. IN

2S.P.Ndt.aarn Ms

RESERVE

IX 3

EW FOREST

RESERVATION

T.IS. 2.T5 3T5
T. .4S

N

GILA

7.5S

28 29 30 31 3: 2

3°3

3"2

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3219

eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby author-

ized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modí-

fication may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such

reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the Territory

of Arizona, which are in part covered with timber ; Boundaries en-
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the afore-

said act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Black Mesa

Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the

diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which may have been , prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

Lands excepted.

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which

to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 30th day of June, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
[SEAL . ] Six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirtieth.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

PINNACLES FOREST RESERVE , CALIFORNIA .
MOUNT DIABLO MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Roundary.
[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED JULY 18, 1906.]
R.7 E.

17

16

15

14

25
233
22 27  28
20

20

21

22

24

T. 16 S.

T. 16 S.

29

28

27

26

25

33

34

35

'°306

4

3

2

T. 17 S.

10

11

12

T. 17 S.

15

14

13

R. 7 E.

44° 10' West from Washington.

PROCLAMATIONS .

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

July 18, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

Pinnacles Forest WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Reserve, Cal.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one, Preamble.

entitle""d , "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes , " That the President of the United States may, from time to

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of California, which

are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber and under-

growth, and it appears that the public good would be- promoted by

setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve,

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United California.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid Act of Congress , do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of California, shown as the Pinnacles Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman , settler, or claimant continues to comply with

the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made. Reserved from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons rot to make set- settlement.
tlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 18th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty first.
By the President : ROBERT BACON

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Acting Secretary of State. 3221

3222

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

July 18, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Heppner Forest Reserve, Oreg.

WHEREAS, the public lands, in the State of Oregon, which are

Preamble.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes, " " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-
mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof "; Forest reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Oregon. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section
twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there
are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Pub-

lic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Oregon, shown as the Heppner Forest Reserve

on the diagram forming a part hereof; Lands excepted. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which may have been, prior to the date hereof, embraced in any legal

entry or covered by any lawful filing duly of record in the proper

United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has

been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired : Provided, that this

exception shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land

unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the

Reserved from law regarding the entry, filing , or settlement.

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 18th day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six , and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

July 20, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

Shoshone Reservation, Wyo.

WHEREAS, by a proclamation issued the second day of June,

Preamble. Ante, p. 3208.

A. D., 1906, pursuant to law, it was declared that certain portions of the lands within the Shoshone or Wind River Reservation , in the

State of Wyoming, particularly described in said proclamation, should become subject to entry at the U. S. land office, located at Lander, in the Lander land district, in the State of Wyoming.

45 T. 7S

,R.2E8

R2E.9

R3E.0

HRF, EOSRPEEPRSNVTEER

O.' REGON

1. 906

WMAB. EAINRSLDIELDAIMAENTTE FAS,USDO..GEOFRPVIETICSCUTELTURE

BF.ROESRUENRSDVTAERY

T. .4S ER2.7

T5. .S R2E...6

ER2.4

T. .6S

R2E5

8.T.S

4°3LWf. or2a0enosgmhtiitnugdteon

SaTl.t44LSake

Meridian T. 44 S.

and

Base.

UTAH IR.4%W R.4W.

T.44S. R. 3W.

ARIZONA

STATE LINE

GRAND CANYON FOREST RESERVE ,
ARIZONA. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE,
1906. Compiled from G. L. O Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary.

6 Miles.

West topointof beginning. N. 3 Miles
-5.6 Miles. E. Mile-
N. 2% Miles EN.. 1 MMilielets W. 4Miles. E. Mile

S.

N. 6 Miles.<

LONGITUDE WEST OF GREENWICH. (Middle ofBed)

W. Mile N. 6Miles.
W. 2 Miles N. 4 Miles.

Lat. 36°30' N.

DIPPER

East 38 Miles.. Parallel of Latitude 36° 30 North,

W, 2Miles! N. 7 Miles 

Lat.36 30 N.

.'1°LW41oe52nsgt .GRSMaiaenvlrdaetirdian
.'1°LW41oe51nsgt

32 N

31 N.

30 N.

29 N.

7th Standard Par North.

28 N

1 27 N.

4 W. 3W

2W.

1 W.

1 E. 2 E

3 E.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION

4 E. SE 6 E. ofGila and Salt River Mer

DATED AUGUST 8, 1906.)

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906 .

3223

And whereas, for good and sufficient reasons now first made known to me, it appears that public interests and convenience require that

all applications to make such entries which will be presented prior to

October 4, A. D. , 1906 , should be received at the town of Shoshoni,

in said land district, and not at Lander, as heretofore directed.

Now,

therefore,

I,

THEODORE

ROOSEVELT,

President

of the

Applications for entries to be made

United States of America, by virtue of the power vested in me by at ShoshOocntio,beWryo3.,, law, do hereby direct, declare and make known that the land officers, u1p906t.o

for said district, will receive applications for entries at Shoshoni, in Ante, p. 3210.

said district, beginning on the fifteenth day of August, A. D. , 1906,

and continuing up to and including the third day of October, Sun-

days excepted , and thereafter beginning October 4th, .1906 , at Lander.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 20th day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six , and of

[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

August 8, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

the

Grand

Canyon

Forest

Reserve ,

in

the

Territory

Grand Canyon Forest Reserve ,

of Arizona, was established by proclamation dated February twen- Ariz. Preamble.

tieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-three, under the name of the Vol. 27, p. 1064.

Grand Cañon Forest Reserve, and was enlarged, by proclamation dated May sixth, nineteen hundred and five, to include additional lands in the Territory of Arizona ;

APnostte,, pp.. 33020693..

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands , in the

Territory of Arizona , which are in part covered with timber, and

by excluding there from certain lands ;

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Boundaries changed .

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act Vol. 30, p. 36.

of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, " An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil

expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth ,

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do pro-

claim that the boundaries of the aforesaid Grand Canyon Forest

Reserve are hereby further changed , and that they are now as shown

on the diagram forming a part hereof. Lands excepted.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be cov-

ered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists .
The lands hereby excluded from the reserve and restored to the Restored lands public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but open to settlement .

shall not be subject to entry, filing, or selection until after ninety

days' notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.

3224

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

Reserved settlement.

from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 8th day of August , in the

[SEAL. ]

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty- first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ALVEY A. ADEE,

Acting Secretary of State.

August 10, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.`

A PROCLAMATION.

Crazy Mountains Forest Reserve , WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Montana, which are

Mont. Preamble.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ;
Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety - one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses,"" That the President of the United States may, from time

to time, set apart and reserve , in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

Forest Montana.

reserve,

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Crazy Mountains Forest

Lands excepted.

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Reserved settlement.

tion , for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be cov-
ered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists. ,. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 10th day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,
[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE, Acting Secretary of State.

CRAZY MOUNTAINS FOREST RESERVE ,  .
MONTANA MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary.

R. 9. E.

R. 10 E.

T. 7N. R. 11 E.

R. 12 E.

T. 6N.

T.5 N.

'°4006

DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED AUGUST 10, 1906)
33° 30 West from Washington. VOL XXXIV, PT 3-29

T.4 N.
T.3N. 14
T. 2 N.

1

63549.-753

ISB

1

KOOTENAI FOREST RESERVE ,  .
FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE , 1906 .
Compiled from G. L. O, Plats. Forest Reserve Boundary.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED AUGUST 13, 1906)

BRITISH

COLUMBIA

INTERNATIONAL

49

IDAHO



BOUNDARY LINE

T. 37N.

IDAHO MONTANA

T. 36 N.
R. 27W T. 35 N.

T.62 N.

T. 34 N.

T. 61 N. R. 3E.

IT 33 N. -4 T. 32 N.

BOUNDARY LINE

R. 28 W.

NAI

T.31 N.

R. 34 W. R 33W. R. 32W

T. 30 N.

:

R. 31 W. R. 30 W. R. 29W.

Boise Mer, and Base Line.

Montana Prin, Mer, and Base Line.

39° Longitude West from Washington,

WASATCH FOREST RESERVE , UTAH .
SALT LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary.
1 T.3 S.

'°340

T.4S .

1 KK

1 7.5 S.

R. 4. E.

R. 2 E.

R. 3 E.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED AUGUST 16, 1906.]

34° 45' West from Washington .

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3225

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

August 13, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

Kootenai Forest WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Montana, which are Reserve, Mont.
hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ; And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses,"" " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

Forest reserve, Montana.
Post, p. 3253.

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts

of land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Kootenai Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. Lands excepted.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists.
Reserved Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement settlement.
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 13th day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

August 16, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.
Wasatch Forest WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Utah, which are here- Reserve, Utah. inafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.
that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103. Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

3226

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by pub-

lic proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and

the limits thereof " ;

Forest reserve,

Utah.

Now, therefore, Í , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the

tracts of land, in the State of Utah, shown as the Wasatch Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. Lands excepted.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or

claim exists.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation . IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto ' set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 16th day on August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

August 21, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Goose Lake Forest Reserve, Oreg.

WHEREAS , it is provided by section twenty-four of the act of

Preamble.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103. entitled, "An act to repeal timber -culture laws, and for other pur-

poses,," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

And whereas, the public lands, in the State of Oregon, which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ;

Forest reserve, Oregon.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Oregon, shown as the Goose Lake Forest Re-

serve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Lands excepted.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

R1E.4

'R1E.5

T:3S.3
[DFAPOIOAFRAROGMTCRILANMGMATION 1DA2, 91AU06TG.EUJDST
T3S.4

T3S.5

T3S.6

R1E.1

1R3E

R1E.2 T3S.7

ST3.8

R1E.6

R1E.7

ER1.8 T3S.3
T3S.4 R1E.9
T3S..5 R2E.0

RFLG, EOASRKOESRSEVTE

O , REGON

1. 906

AMWB, EAINRSLDIELDAIMAENTTE ADSF.OUS, .EGEOFRRPVITEICSCUTELTURE
PC.OGLfl.o.ramotpmsiled FRB. oersuensrdtvaery

E2R.1.

ER2.2

T3S.6

T3S.7

TS3.8

T3S.9

T3S.9

R1E.2

1ER.3

R1E.4

T4S.0

4T.S..0

GLOAOKSEE

RE1.2

R1E.3

T4S.1

T4S.1

OREGON

BOUNDARY

4° 2

CALIFORNIA LINE

R1E.4

R%E.14 R1E.5

R1E.6

ER1.7

E1R.8

E1R.9

R2ER2E.1.0

R2E.2

4°Wf. rae4ossmhtington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3227

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation or claim exists.
Reserved from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement settlement. upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this 21 day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,
[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ROBERT BACON,
Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

August 25, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

Valparaiso earthWhereas, a dreadful calamity has befallen our sister republic of quake. Chile in the destruction by earthquake of Valparaiso and other Preamble.
localities ;

And whereas, we of this nation at this moment see the city of San Francisco struggling upwards from the ruins in which a like catastrophe overwhelmed her last spring ;
And whereas, we keep keenly in mind the thankful appreciation

we felt for the way in which the peoples of Europe, Asia, and the
Americas came forward with generous offers of assistance ; Ald asked for the
Now therefore, in this time of woe of our sister republic I ask that sufferers. our people out of their abundance now strive to do to another as
others last spring did to us. The National Red Cross Association
has already taken measures to collect any subscriptions that may be offered for this purpose, and I trust that there will be a generous response.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 25 day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six ,

[ SEAL. ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty- first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

August 27, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS,

the

Government

of

Spain

has,

by

Royal

Decree

tak-

Reciprocity Spain.

with

ing effect September 1 , 1906, extended to the products and manu- Preamble.

factures of the United States the rates of duty now fixed in the second

or minimum column of the Spanish tariff and has made applicable to

the United States every decrease of duty accorded by Spain by law

and in the commercial pacts now made, or which in future shall be

3228

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

made, with other nations ( exception being made only of the special

advantages conceded to Portugal ) , by which action, in the judgment

of the President, reciprocal and equivalent concessions are established

Reduced duty on in favor of the said products and manufactures of the United States ;

Spanish products.

NOW, THEREFORE, be it known that I, THEODORE

Vol. 30, p. 203. ROOSEVELT, President of the United States of America, acting

under the authority conferred by the third section of the Tariff Act

of the United States, approved July 24, 1897, do hereby suspend , during the continuance in force of the said concessions by the Govern-

ment of Spain, the imposition and collection of the duties imposed

by the first section of said Act upon the articles hereinafter specified,

being the products of the soil or industry of Spain ; and do declare in

place thereof the following rates of duties provided in the third sec-

tion of said Act to be in force and effect on and after September 1 ,

1906, of which the officers and citizens of the United States will take

due notice, namely :

Articles affected.

Vol. 30, p. 204.

Upon argols, or crude Tartar, or wine lees, crude, five per centum

ad valorem.

Upon brandies, or other spirits manufactured or distilled from grain or other materials, one dollar and seventy-five cents per proof gallon.

Upon still wines, and vermuth, in casks, thirty-five cents per gallon ; in bottles or jugs, per case of one dozen bottles or jugs containing

each not more than one quart and more than one pint, or twenty- four bottles or jugs containing each not more than one pint, one dollar and

twenty-five cents per case, and any excess beyond these quantities found in such bottles or jugs shall be subject to a duty of four cents

per pint or fractional part thereof, but no separate or additional duty shall be assessed upon the bottles or jugs.

Upon paintings in oil or water colors, pastels pen and ink draw-

ings, and statuary, fifteen per centum ad valorem. IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

DONE at the City of Washington this 27 day of August, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States of America the

one hundred and thirty-first..

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President ; ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

September 1 , 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Uintah Indian WHEREAS , the Secretary of the Interior, on July 11 , 1905 , under Reservation, Utah. the authority of the act of June 19, 1902 ( 32 Stats. , 744 ) amended
Preamble .
Vol. 32, p. 744. Vol. 32, p. 998. by the act of March 3 , 1903 ( 32 Stats. , 982 , 998 ) , and March 3, 1905 Vol. 33, p. 1069. (33 Stats., 1048 , 1069 ) , reserved certain lands in the former Uintah

Indian Reservation in Utah, including Lots 2 and 13 in Sec. 10, T. 2

Ante, p. 3119.

S., R. 1 E., containing 8.80 acres, for the Uintah Indian Grazing Reserve ; and whereas, the President of the United States in his proc-

lamation of July 14, 1905 , opening the lands in the said Uintah Res-

ervation to settlement and entry, excepted from such opening the

clDaiamv. id Eskelson lands included in said grazing reserve ; and whereas one David Eskelson was, on September 26 , 1905, erroneously allowed to include in his

R1ETN.15

R1E.6

R1. .7E R1E.8

ER1.9

T1N.0

T.9.N

T. .8N T7N.

T. .6N E1R.5

R1E.6 T. .5N

R,2E.0
T1. .0N R2E.1 T9. .N R2E.2 T. .8N R2E.3

RFS, ETOSARENRISVSTELAUS C. ALIFORNIA

1. 906

AMM.BDEIANORASDUIBENDLITOAN ADF,O.USS.EGOFRPRVITEICSCUTELTURE
RF. oersuensrdtvaery

PDFAORAOIFORATCMGILRNAGMATION DS7,1]9AE0TP6ETDEMBER

T7. .N R2E.4

T. .6N R2E.5 TS. .N

T. .4N TN..4

T3. .N T3N..

ER1.7
T2N. T.2.N

38

R1E8.

ER1..9

ER2.0

R2E.1

R2E.2

RE2.3

R2E.4

E2R..5

Wf4°. rae3ossmhtington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3229

homestead entry No. 806, the said Lots 2 and 13, on which lots he has
placed valuable improvements, and which, by virtue of their small area and being entirely segregated from the balance of the grazing
reserve by the claims of the Raven Mining Company, are of no
value as a part of said reserve : Land restored to
Now, therefore, I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the public domain. United States, by virtue of the power in me vested, do hereby declare
and make known that the lots numbered 2 and 13 of Section 10, Town-

ship 2 S., of Range 1 E., Uintah Special Meridian, in Utah, are hereby restored to the public domain.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington, the 1st day of September in the year of our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

September 7, 1906..

A PROCLAMATION.

Stanislaus Forest WHEREAS , the Stanislaus Forest Reserve, in the State of Cali- Reserve, Cal.
Preamble. fornia, was established by proclamation dated February twenty- Vl. 29, p. 898.
second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven ; and the boundary lines
thereof were subsequently changed and the area reduced by the Act Vol. 33, p. 702.

of Congress, approved February seventh, nineteen hundred and five,

entitled, "An Act To exclude from the Yosemite National Park,

California, certain lands therein described , and to attach and include

the said lands in the Sierra Forest Reserve" ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said Stanislaus Forest Reserve certain lands in the

State of California which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved
June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An Act

Vol. 30, p. 36.

Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and

ninety -eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby

authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has

been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and

by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary

lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating

such reserve" ;

Boundaries ´én .

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the

aforesaid act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred

and ninety-seven , do proclain that the Stanislaus Forest Reserve is

hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands , and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming

a part hereof.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appro-

Lands excepted.

priation, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be

3230

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

Reserved settlement.

covered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 7th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL . ] Six, and of the Independence of the United States the

one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

September 14, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Hell Gate Forest

Reserve, Mont.

WHEREAS , the Hell Gate Forest Reserve, in the State of Mon-

Preamble.

tana, was established by proclamation dated October third, nineteen

32A1n3.te, pp. 3168, hundred and five, and was subsequently enlarged by proclamation

dated June second, nineteen hundred and six ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by

further enlarging the said forest reserve to include certain additional

Boundaries en- lands, in the State of Montana, which are in part covered with timber :

larged .

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of

Vol. 30, p. 36.

Congress, approved June fourth , eighteen hundred and ninety- seven , entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of

the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that

the aforesaid Hell Gate Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are

Lands excepted. now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or

reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered by

Reserved settlement.

any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal , reservation, or claim
exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS V. HEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 14th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

18 W 13 N.
12 N 19 W 11N

17W. 16W 15W. 14W.

10 N. 9.N 8N 7N

13W 12W. 11 W 10W

6N
5N. 20 W. 4N

3N.

2N 1N 1S
37 West from Washington VOL XXXIV, PT 3-30

HELL GATE FOREST RESERVE,  .
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, U S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE. 1906:
Complied from G. LO. Plats Forest Reserve Boundary.

R. 12 E. R-13E. R. 14 E.

T.19 S. R. 11 E

T. 19S. R. 15E. R. 16 E.

T. 20 S.

T. 20S.

T. 21 S. T. 22S.

PIZTE

T: 21 S. T. 22 S.

T. 23 S. R. 9. E.

T 24 S. R. 8. E.

R: 10E.

T. 25 S.

T. 23 S. R. 17E.
T. 24S.
T. 25 S.

T. 26 S. T. 27S.

T, 26S. T. 27S.

T. 28 S.

T. 28 S.

R. 8. E. R. 9. E. R. 10 E. R. 11 E. T. 29 S.

T.29 S.

43° T. 30 S.

T. 30 S.

SUMMER LAR

R. 12 E. R 13E. T. 31 S.

T. 31 S.

FREMONT FOREST RESERVE ,

OREGON ,

T. 32 S.

WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN AND BASE,

FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE, T. 33S.

1906. Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.

R. 14 E. R. 15 E.

Forest Reserve Boundary.

R. 16 E.

T. 32S. R 18 E.
T. 33S
R. 17E. R 18 E.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED SEPTEMBER 17, 1906.]

44° West from Washington.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

.3231

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

September 15, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

Reciprocity with WHEREAS the Government of the Principality of Bulgaria has Bulgaria. taken action , extending, on and after June 5, 1906, and until further Preamble.

notice, to the products of the soil or industry of the United States, the benefit of the Bulgarian conventional customs tariff rates, the same being the lowest rates applied by Bulgaria to the like products of any other country, by which action in the judgment of the President reciprocal and equivalent concessions are established in favor of the

said products of the United States : Now, Therefore, be it known that I , THEODORE ROOSEVELT, Reduction of duties on Bulgarian
President of the United States of America , acting under the authority products. Vol. 30, p. 203.
conferred by the third section of the Tariff Act of the United States,
approved July 24, 1897 , do hereby suspend, during the continuance
in force of the said concessions by the Government of the Principality

of Bulgaria, the imposition and collection of the duties imposed by the first section of said Act upon the Articles hereinafter specified, being the products of the soil or industry of Bulgaria ; and do declare in place thereof the following rates of duty provided in the third section of said Act to be in force and effect on and after September 30, 1906 , of which the officers and citizens of the United States will take due notice , namely:
Upon argols, or crude tartar , or wine lees, crude, five per centum ad valorem.

Articles affected. Vol. 30, p. 204.

Upon brandies, or other spirits manufactured or distilled from grain or other materials, one dollar and seventy-five cents per proof gallon.
Upon still wines, and vermuth, in casks, thirty-five cents per gallon ; in bottles or jugs, per case of one dozen bottles or jugs containing each not more than one quart and more than one pint, or twenty- four bottles or jugs containing each not more than one pint, one dollar and twenty-five cents per case, and any excess beyond these quantities found in such bottles or jugs shall be subject to a duty of four cents per pint or fractional part thereof, but no separate or additional duty shall be assessed upon the bottles or jugs.

Upon paintings in oil or water colors, pastels, pen and ink drawings, and statuary, fifteen per centum ad valorem.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
Done at the City of Washington this fifteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
[ SEAL. ] six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and thirty-first .

By the President : ROBERT BACON

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

September 17, 1906.

6.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS , the public lands, in the State of Oregon, which are Fremont Forest

hereinafter

indicated,

are

in

part

covered

with

timber,

and

it

appears

Reserve, Oreg. Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as

a public reservation ;

3232

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-
mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof "; Forest reserve , Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Oregon. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Oregon, shown as the Fremont Forest Reserve on

the diagram forming a part hereof. Lands excepted. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Reserved settlement.

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists. from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 17th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE,

Acting Secretary of State.

September 17, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Tahoe Forest Reserve, Cal. and

WHEREAS , the Tahoe Forest Reserve, in the States of California

Nev.

and Nevada, and the Yuba Forest Reserve, in the State of California,

Preamble.

Ante, pp. 3163 , have been heretofore established by proclamations, under the provi-

3184.

sions of the acts of March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Vol. 30, p. 36. entitled, " An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur-

poses," and June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled, An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the

Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hun-

dred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes " ; And whereas, it appears desirable that the area embraced in said
forest reserves, with certain additions thereto, in the State of Cali-

fornia, should be included in one reserve and be distinguished by one name; and it appears that the public lands in the States of California

and Nevada, which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with

timber, and that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

the same as a public reservation ;

Tahoe Forest Reserve established

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

ihnoeplaanced oYfutbhae Ta- States, by virtue of the power in me vested by the aforesaid acts of est reserves for Congress, do proclaim that the proclamations heretofore issued re-

specting said forest reserves are hereby superseded , and the Tahoe

T2N.2

R8E.

R9E..

R18C

FORNI 20 25

A

TIJN

38

7N.12

RFT, EOASRHEEORSEVTERE1.0 NCA. NEADVL

DM.BAMIEANOARSDUIBENDLITOAN

1. 906

ADSFO.S,U.EGOFRPRVITEICSCUTELTURE R1E1.

OGCP.Lf.loramotmpsiled

BRF. oersuensrdtvaery
PDOAF[IRAOFAORGCTMRLIAANMMGATION SD1], 97AE0TP6ETDEMBER

ER1.2 RE.13

STATE

CAL

STATE

NEV.

NT21.
NT2.0
1NT.9
T1N.8
T1N.7
T1N.6
T1N.5 TLAAHKOEE 818
T1N.4
NT1.3
T1N.2 RE1.45
NT1.1 R1E. .67E ER.18 R1E.9
.Wf4°are3soshmtington

39°

:

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3233

Forest Reserve is hereby established in place thereof, with boundaries as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation ,

Lands excepted.

for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered by

any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists.

Warning is hereby given to

all persons not to make

settlement upon

Reserved settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 17th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,
[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

September 19, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas,

Section two of the Act of June 5,

1906,

( 34

Stats. ,

213 ) ,

Klowa, Comanche ad Apache Indian

directed that the four hundred and eighty thousand acres of grazing lands heretofore selected and set apart by the Secretary of the Inte-
rior in the Kiowa, Comanche and Apache Indian Reservations, in the Territory of Oklahoma, for the use in common of certain Indian tribes, pursuant to Article three of Section six of the Act of Congress, approved June 6, 1900, entitled, "An Act to ratify and confirm an agreement with the Indians of the Fort Hall Indian Reserva-

ResPearvsattiuornse, Okalnad. wood lands.
Preamble. Ante, p. 213.
Vol. 31, p. 677.

tion, in Idaho ; " and the twenty-five thousand acres of land hereto-

fore set apart by the Secretary of the Interior as a wood reserva-

tion in said Kiowa, Comanche and Apache Indian Reservations,

" shall be opened to settlement by proclamation of the President of the United States within six months from the passage of this Act,

and be disposed of upon sealed bids or at public auction, at the dis-

cretion of the Secretary of the Interior, to the highest bidder under the provisions of the homestead laws of the United States, and under

the rules and regulations adopted by the Secretary of the Interior "; And, whereas, by Section six of said Act of June 5, 1906 , it was
declared that certain portions of said four hundred and eighty thousand acres of land should be allotted to certain Indians described
therein ; and by the Act of June 28 , 1906 (34 Stats. , 550 ) , it was fur-

Ante, p. 214, Ante, p. 550.

ther declared that certain other portions of said four hundred and

eighty thousand acres of land should be sold to certain lessees thereof : And , whereas, under the Act approved March 20, 1906 (34 Stats.,
80) , authorizing the establishment of townsites and the sale of lots

Town sites, etc. Ante, p . 80.

within said four hundred and eighty thousand acres of land , the

Secretary of the Interior was authorized to set aside and reserve

such lands as he may deem necessary for the establishment of town-

sites ;

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Proclamation opening lands for

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the said settlement.

Act of Congress, approved June 5, 1906, do hereby declare and make

known that all of said four hundred and eighty thousand , acres of

land, except such portions thereof as may be allotted , sold or reserved

in the manner prescribed in said Acts of Congress, and all of sai.d

3234

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

Ante, p. 213.

twenty-five thousand acres of land will be opened to settlement and disposition, under the provisions of said Act of June 5, 1906, and under the rules and regulations adopted by the Secretary of the Interior, at such time and in such manner as the said Secretary of the Interior may fix and prescribe.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.
Done at this City of Washington this 19th day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six
[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

September 20, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Lolo Forest Re-

serve, Mont.

WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Montana, which are

Preamble.

. hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not , as public reservations, and the President shall , by pub-

lic proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and

the limits thereof ";

Forest reserve, Montana .

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Post, p. 3260. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress , do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts

of land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Lolo Forest Reserve

on the diagram forming a part hereof..
Lands excepted. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Reserved settlement.

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered
by any prior valid claim , so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 20th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
[ SEAL . ] Six, and of the Independence of the United Sates the one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

3WR3. 4°7

R:3W2.

R3W.1.

WR3.0.

NT1.9

R2W.9.

S

AR2WI.8.N

REG T

B IS

AYER NT1.8

R2W.7

R2W.6.

T1N.7 WR2.5.

T1N.6

WR2.4.

R2W.3

R2W.2

2RW.1.

RIVER M TANA ON

LFR, EOSRLEORSVTE

 . 

MPMAB, REAONIRSNDNIETCDIAIPNAANAL

ID A

HO

FAS,USD.O.EGOFRPRVITEICSCUTELTURE

1. 906

PLC.OGf.l.oraomtmpsiled

BRF. oersuensrdtvaery

RIVER

I.1N.T5
T1N.4 WR2.0. T1N.3
T1N.2

[DFAPOIAROFAROGTCMRLIAANMMGATION
1DS2,]90AE06TP.ETDEMBER T1N1.

W.3°Wfar8esoshmtington

BRFIOETRSOTETESRRTVE

SHASTA FOREST RESERVE , CALIFORNIA .
MT. DIABLO MERIDIAN AND BASE. Compiled from G. L, O. Plats,
FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE, 1906 .
Forest Reserve Boundary.

R.4W.R.3W. T. 47 N.

9th Stan. Par. N.

T. 46 N. T. 45 N.

R. 10W. R. 9 W.R. 8 W. R. 7W. R. 6W. R. 5W. 8th Stan. Par. N
R. 11 W. 41 °

T.44 N. R. 2 W.R. 1 W.
T. 43 N. R. 1E.
T. 42 N.
T.41 N. R. 2E.
T. 40 N.
T. 39 N. R.3E
T. 38 N. R. 4. E.
N.
36 N.
T. 35 N.

T. 34 N. T. 33 N.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED SEPTEMBER 24, 1906.]

T. 32 N. T 31 N.

45 West from Washington.

LONG PINE FOREST RESERVE. MONTANA
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE. U. S. DEPT . OF AGRICULTURE. 1906 . FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY!
T.1 S.

45

BOUNDARY

SDOAUKTOHTA LINE

T.2S.

ANA

-R. 60 E.

R. 61 E

Longitude 27 15' West from Washington.

T.3S. R. 62 E.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3235

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

September 24, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, the

Shasta

Forest

Reserve,

in the

State

of

California ,

Shasta Forest Reserve, Cal.

was established by proclamation dated October third, nineteen hun- Preamble.

dred and five ;

Ante, p. 3157.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

California, which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved
June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven , entitled , "An Act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government

Vol. 30, p. 36.

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninetyeight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby au-

thorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or

may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such

modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of

such

reserve, 99

or

may

vacate

altogether

any

order

creating

such

re-

serve ;

Boundaries en-

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the afore-

said act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Shasta Forest

Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and

that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram

forming a part hereof.
Lands excepted. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists.
Reserved Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement.
the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 24th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and
[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

September 24, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.
Long Pine Forest WHEREAS, the Public lands in the State of Montana, which are Reserve, Mont. hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble. that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ; And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103. Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes,"' " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part
VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -31

3238

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

not before, be opened to settlement, and then and thereafter be subject to disposal under the existing laws of the United States.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 26th day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and six and of the

[SEAL. ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and

thirty first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

October 3, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Santa Barbara

Forest Reserve, WHEREAS , The Santa Barbara Forest Reserve, in the State of

Cal. Preamble.

California, was established by proclamation dated December twenty-

Vol. 33, p. 2327. second , nineteen hundred and three, consolidating The Pine Moun-

tain and Zaca Lake Forest Reserve and The Santa Ynez Forest Re-

serve, and including an additional tract of land ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by enlarging the said Santa Barbara Forest Reserve to embrace cer-

tain additional lands, in the State of California , which are in part

covered with timber ;

Boundaries en-

larged.

'Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Vol. 30, p. 36.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil

expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do pro-

claim that the aforesaid Santa Barbara Forest Reserve is hereby

enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the bound-

Lands excepted.

aries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof..
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest, uses, or which may be cov-

ered by ahy prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation,

or claim exists.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[SEAL . ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

T1N2.

HanchPart

of

7.11N

35

T1N.0

SRiasnchq ouoc Ranch LLa o agona

DO3,1)9AC0T6.EODBER 0BPSMDLaitloarahnusabneltldthealrd

PODFA( IRAOFAORGCTMRLIANMGATION

P(o)fartRCaunycahmoa FoCEfaetsnraertiae
TRW .2W0ZERWR27

RSEmaindcihoo 710 RZOW

N

Rancho

Rancho Castac

Aqua CalienJtaemos

SBFR, EAOSRNEETBRSAVTREA

C. ALIFORNIA

MSB.AEAENRSNRDIENDAIRADNINO

1906

FS,USD.OA.EGOFRPVITEICSCUTELTURE

CL.P.fGl.oraomOtmpsiled BRF. oersuensrdtvaery

Rancho LLiaebre

Rancho RCLaranuscsheos

CdlPRaoeisfnfocashdoa oCRoralnlcehgoe

Rancho

MPuordLRjioaefaimncqacausthiioolna Tequeper MSarncos

3RWR.201W

82..R.8.20W

WR2.7.

TSdNCR,aeuaanlefnngsecahtrhdroaoa PCRDLueoaeersnbcclahoos

RLao1n4cho NPraisstosy jalayoqua

Barbara

TEN

PNaorrallel

R21W

A2WR1W 1W7 ROW

LUAN

Rancho

RDjaanicho
Ranche SAannata

FRSraanncchiosco

4W 19W R1W.2.

E.MSFGieraxsransniatonnddoe

Wo4°.fae2sshtington

3238

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.
not before, be opened to settlement, and then and thereafter be subject to disposal under the existing laws of the United States.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.
Done at the City of Washington this 26th day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and six and of the
[SEAL . ] Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE Acting Secretary of State.

October 3 , 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Santa Barbara Forest Reserve,

WHEREAS , The Santa Barbara Forest Reserve, in the State of

Cal. Preamble.

California, was established by proclamation dated December twenty-

Vol . 33, p. 2327. second, nineteen hundred and three, consolidating The Pine Moun-

tain and Zaca Lake Forest Reserve and The Santa Ynez Forest Re-

serve, and including an additional tract of land ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by enlarging the said Santa Barbara Forest Reserve to embrace cer-

tain additional lands, in the State of California, which are in part

covered with timber;

Boundaries en-

larged.

'Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Vol. 30, p. 36.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven , entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,

eighteen hundred and ninety -eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the aforesaid Santa Barbara Forest Reserve is hereby

enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the bound-

Lands excepted.

aries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement , entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest, uses, or which may be cov-

Reserved settlement.

ered by ahy prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 3d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

DO3,1]9AC0T6.EODBER

T1N2.

P(arEtatonto

7.11N ofCuyama

35

T1N.0 83W Fow RSiasnchqu ooc

8SPMDBLaitoarahnusabentldlhteaelrd
)o(PfartCRaunycahmoa CPofaaitriere
R2W.0

Ranch LLa o aguna

CRPdloaiesfnfocashdoa

Ra

RoCaorlnlcehgoe

MSarnnccho

NRoajnocqhuoi lPaurRLdiaofeinmccaathsioon Tequeper

os

R

3R2W 31W R3W.0

8R..2280W

2RW.7.

Lancho

Rancho CLrausses

2W3 Proisstosy

CNRSuaeaentnsoctarhdoael

Najalayoqua

PDCLRuooaesrnblacohlso

P(DFAORAIOFORACGTMRLIANMGATION
ERSmaindciho W
RDjaanicho RaASnancnahtoa

TEN TEN TON
AA2WW R
7. .3N

Rancho Castac

RaAnqcuhaoCLaolsieAnltaemos

Rancho Temas

SBFR, EAOSNRETEBRSAVTREA

C. ALIFORNIA

SBMA. EANRSRNDIENDAIRADNINO

1906

FS,USD.OA, .EGFORPVIETICSCUTELTURE

CfGLOP. .loraomtmpsiled BRF. oersuensrdtvaery

Rancho LLiaebre

14W 13W R1W.2. FRSraanncchiosco
E.MSFGieraxsransniatonnddoe

W.o4°afe2sshtington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3237

Section seven, and the north half of the northeast quarter, the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter and lot number one of section eighteen, in township fifty- three north, range sixty -five ; the east half of section twelve and the north half of the northeast quarter of section thirteen in township fifty-three north, range sixty-six, all

Description.

west of the Sixth Principal Meridian, as shown upon the map hereto

attached and made a part of this proclamation.

Warning

is

hereby

expressly

given

to

all

unauthorized

persons

not

Land reservea from settlement,

to appropriate, injure or destroy any feature of the natural tower etc.

hereby declared to be a National monument or to locate or settle upon

any of the lands reserved and made a part of said monument by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington, this 24th day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

September 26, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS ,

allotments

of lands

in the

Walker

River

Indian

Res-

Walker River Indian Reservation,

ervation in the State of Nevada have been made to, approved and Nev Preamble.

accepted by the Pah Ute Indians of that Reservation pursuant to the Vol. 32, p. 260.

requirements of the Act of Congress approved May 27, 1902 ( 32 U. S.

Statutes at Large, 260) ;

And, whereas, other portions of the lands in said Reservation have

been selected, set apart and reserved for the use of said Indians in

common for the grazing of live-stock pursuant to the requirements of the Joint Resolution of Congress No. 32, approved June 19, 1902 (32 U. S. Statutes at Large, 744) , and other timbered portions

Vol. 32, p. 744.

thereof have been set apart for the use of said Indians in common

pursuant to the requirements of the Act of Congress approved June
21 , 1906 ( 34 U. S. Statutes at Large, 358 ) , and other portions thereof have been reserved and set apart for agency, school, cemetery and

Ante, p. 358.

church purposes under the general provisions of law; And, whereas, by said Act of May 27, 1902, it was provided that
after the Indians had consented thereto the President shall, by proc-

Vol. 32, p. 260.

lamation, open the lands relinquished by the Indians to settlement, to be disposed of under existing laws ;

And, whereas, by an agreement entered into by said Indians they have ceded and relinquished to the United States all their right and claim in and to all the lands in said Reservation which have not been

allotted, selected , set apart and reserved, as above set forth ;

Now,

Therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Opening of ceded lands to settlement,

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by said October 29, 1906.

Act of Congress and by virtue of said agreement, do hereby de-

clare, proclaim and make known that all of the lands within the

Walker River Indian Reservation in the State of Nevada which have

not been allotted, set apart and reserved as above set out, will , at the hour of twelve o'clock noon , Pacific Standard Time, on Monday the

twenty-ninth day of October, A. D. , nineteen hundred and six, and

3236

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ";

Forest reserve, Montana.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there are J hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation , for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Long Pine Forest Re-

serve on the diagram forming a part hereof. Lands excepted. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be cov-

ered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation,

or claim exists.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 24 day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six ,

[ SEAL. ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ALVEY A. ADEE

Acting Secretary of State.

September 24, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

A PROCLAMATION.

Devils Tower

National Monu- Whereas, It is provided by section two of the Act of Congress, ap-

men't, Wyo . Preamble.

proved June 8, 1906, entitled, " An Act for the preservation of

Ante, p. 225. American Antiquities," " That the President of the United States is

hereby authorized , in his discretion, to declare by public proclamation

historic land marks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other

objects of historic or scientific interest that are situated upon the

lands owned or controlled by the Government of the United States

to be National Monuments, and may reserve as a part thereof parcels

of land, the limits of which in all cases shall be confined to the

smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of 99
the object to be protected ; '

And, whereas, the lofty and isolated rock in the State of Wyoming,

known as the " Devils Tower, " situated upon the public lands owned

and controlled by the United States is such an extraordinary example

of the effect of erosion in the higher mountains as to be a natural

wonder and an object of historic and great scientific interest and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by reserving this tower as a National monument with as much land as may be necessary

for the proper protection thereof;

National monu-

ment, Wyomfug.

Now, therefore, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the

United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by

section two of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby set aside as

the Devils Tower National Monument , the lofty and isolated rock

situated in Crook County, Wyoming, more particularly located and described as follows, towit :

DEVILS TOWER NATIONAL MONUMENT ,
Embracing Sec. 7 and the N. ½ of N.E. 4 , the N.E. 4 of N.W. and Lot No. 1 of Sec. 18 in T. 53 N., R. 65 ; the E.½ of Sec. 12 and the N. ½ of N E. 4 of Sec. 13 in T. 53 N., R. 66, all West of the 6th Principal Meridian , WYOMING , Containing 1152.91 acres.

R.66 W.

R.65 W.

T. 53 N .----1

Devil 0

13
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, GENERAL LAND OFFICE,
Wm. A. Richards, Commissioner.
[ MAP ATTACHED TO AND MADE A PART OF THE PROCLAMATION DATED SEPTEMBER 24, 1906.]

3240

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits

thereof ":

Forest reserve,

New Mexico.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Pub-

lic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

Lands excepted.

land , in the Territory of New Mexico, shown as the Mount Taylor Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Reserved settlement.

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be cov-
ered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal , reservation, or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six , and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

October 6, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Uinta Forest Re serve, Utah and WHEREAS , the Uinta Forest Reserve, in the State of Utah, was

Wyo . Preamble.

established by proclamation dated February twenty-second, eighteen

Vol. 29, p. 895. hundred and ninety-seven, under the name of the Uintah Forest

Reserve, and the boundaries thereof were subsequently changed by

318A6n,t3e2, 0p7p. . 3116, proclamations dated July fourteenth , nineteen hundred and five, January sixteenth, nineteen hundred and six, and May twenty-ninth , nineteen hundred and six , to include additional lands in the States of
Utah and Wyoming, and also to exclude from the reserve certain lands in said States ; -

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, in the State

of Utah, which are in part covered with timber ; Boundaries en- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of

Vol. 30, p. 36.

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, entitled,"An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of

the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen

hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that

the aforesaid Uinta Forest Reserve is hereby further enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the

Lands excepted.

reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement , entry, or other appropria tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal , reservation , or claim exists.

ST T THARD STAUBAT pears the

T.2N T.1N 7. .15 7.25 7.3S T4.5 7.55 7.65 7. .78 T.85 7.95 T.10S
7.115

UTAH WYOMING NEW WEXICO MD IVANOB LOBES BE2EBAE 20, 30- SA

R1WW.12.90

R,1WRW.1.78 R1W.1.6 R,1W,15

LICE R11E R12E R13E

R,1W.1.243 RW.111 T1. .3N

1. 5E R. 16E R17E

T.12N WYOMING UTAN
HE2.0J9ER T2N

T.3N T-2N

HEREAS, the fter indicate
d where

IN T1..5
2, 5

tion twenty - four    .
H

R, .7W

R..SW

T.15

T2: .5

T3..8

T.45

755

R., .A32WW R. 1W R. IE

RUF, EIOSNRETERASVTE

UTAH

W. YOMING

1. 906

FS.UDOAEGOEFSRRPVIETICSCUTELTURE

the State of Oregon, which are red with timber, and it appears

Act of her pur
bl
WER

Wfraosmhing

R. 9W.

30" 30" West from Washington.

MOUNT TAYLOR FOREST RESERVE,
NEW MEXICO . NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE.
FOREST SERVICE, U.S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,

1906. FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

R. 8W.

R 7W.

R. 6W.

.IMGSeuWTriiddeian

T. 14 N.

BARTOLOME FERNANDEZ! GRANT

T. 13N. T. 12 N.

153

CEBOLLETA GRANT

T. 11N.

R 9W.

R 8W.

PAGUATE GRANT

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3239

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

October 5, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Oregon, which are Siskiyou Forest
hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears RePsreeravmeblree.s. that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands Post, p. 3280.
as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103.
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,
entitle99d.6,6 "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public-

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof "; Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Forest reserve, Oregon.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Oregon, shown as the Siskiyou Forest Re-

serve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

Lands excepted.

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists.
Reserved Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement settlement.
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

from

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,
[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

October 5, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico, ForMeostunRetserTvae,ylNo.r

which

are hereinafter

indicated,

are

in

part

covered

with timber,

and

Mex. Preamble .

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

said lands as a public reservation ;

And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

T 32S T. 33 S.

T34S T 35 S

w w

SISKIYOU FOREST RESERVE, OREGON .
WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN FOREST SERVICE, US DEPT OF AGRICULTURE
1906 . FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

T.36 S

T.37S

1.38 S

7.39 S

7.40 S

N : :  }

7.41 S

RJO W

R. 9W.

R 8W.

R 7W. R. 6W.

R. 5W

CALIFORNIA

46° 30 West from Washington

1

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-32

1

3242

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

October 22, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Preamble.

THE time of year has come when, in accordance with the wise custom of our forefathers, it becomes my duty to set aside a special day of thanksgiving and praise to the Almighty because of the bless-

ings we have received , and of prayer that these blessings may be continued. Yet another year of widespread well -being has past. Never before in our history or in the history of any other nation has a

people enjoyed more abounding material prosperity than is ours ; a prosperity so great that it should arouse in us no spirit of reckless pride, and least of all a spirit of heedless disregard of our responsibilities ; but rather a sober sense of our many blessings, and a resolute purpose, under Providence, not to forfeit them by any action of our own.

Material well-being, indispensable tho it is, can never be anything but the foundation of true national greatness and happiness. If we

build nothing upon this foundation , then our national life will be as meaningless and empty as a house where only the foundation has been

laid . Upon our material well -being must be built a superstructure of individual and national life lived in accordance with the laws of

the highest morality, or else our prosperity itself will in the long run
turn out a curse instead of a blessing. We should be both reverently thankful for what we have received, and earnestly bent upon turning
it into a means of grace and not of destruction. Thursday, November 29, 1906, Accordingly I hereby set apart Thursday, the twenty-ninth day of set apart as a day November, next, as a day of thanksgiving and supplication, on which ogfivniantgi. onal thanks- the people shall meet in their homes or their churches, devoutly
acknowledge all that has been given them, and to pray that they may
in addition receive the power to use these gifts aright.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 22d day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six

[SEAL. ] and of the independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

November 5 , 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Sierra Madre

Forest Reserve , WHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Wyoming, which are

Wyo .

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

Vol. 26, p. 1103. as a public reservation ; And whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled , "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by pub-

4SPN. atorhraatnlhdlaerld TN..16
TN..15

SMFR, IEOAESRDREERRRSEAVTE W . YOMING
LM6P.BAtIREANhNIRSDENIECDIPAANL FSOA.USD., .EFGOERRPVIETICSCUTELTURE
1. 906 FBR. OESRUENRSDVTAERY

TN..14

T1N.3

T:1N.2

COLORADO

R8W.8.

'R8W.7.

R8W.6.

WR8.5.

R8W.4.

R8W.3.

R8W.2.

R8W.1

3°Wf..rae0ossmhtington

WSBR

HWILNBDRBYE

T 30N
T. 29N
T.28 N.
T.27N. R.9E T 26N

DIAMOND MOUNTAIN FOREST RESERVE, CALIFORNIA.
MT. DIABLO MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE. U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE.
1906 . Forest Reserve Boundary.

H O N E Y

L A K E

7.25N R10E T.24 N

T. 23N.

R11E T. 22 N

R9E

RJOE.

RIIE.

R.12E..

R.13E. R. 14E

R.15E

R-16E R17E

43° 30 West from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3241

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon setRtelseemrevnetd. from the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and

thirty- first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

October 15, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION.

WHEREAS,

the

Diamond

Mountain

Forest

Reserve,

in

the

State

Diamond Mountain Forest Re-

of California, was established by proclamation dated July fourteenth, serve, Cal.

nineteen hundred and five ;

Preamble. Ante, p. 3113,

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of California , which are in part covered with timber ;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, entitled , "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

Vol. 30, p. 36.

fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized
at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of
such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve
Boundaries enNow, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act
of Congress,. do proclaim that the aforesaid Diamond Mountain Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram

forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Lands excepted.

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists.

Warning is hereby

given to

all

persons

not to

make

settlement

upon

Reserved settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 15th day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and
[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hun- . dred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

R.10E.

GALLINAS FOREST RESERVE ,

NEW MEXICO. NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE.
FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,

1906. FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

R.11E.

R.12 E

R.13 E.

T.IN.

T.IS.

T. 25 T. 3S Longitude 78° 45 West from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3243

lic proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and

the limits thereof "; Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Forest reserve, Wyoming.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section
twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Wyoming, shown as the Sierra Madre Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof.

Lands excepted.

This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists.

-Warning is hereby given to all

persons not to make

settlement upon

Reserved settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one

hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 5, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS , the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico, ResGearllvien, aNs. MFeoxr.est

which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Preamble. Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled , "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes,," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by pub-

lic proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and

the limits thereof " ;

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Forest reserve, New Mexico.

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts

of land, in the Territory of New Mexico, shown as the Gallinas For-

est Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn Lands excepted .

or reserved, at this date, from settlement , entry, or other appropria-

tion , for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists.

MAGDALENA FOREST RESERVE , NEW MEXICO.
NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S DEPT OF AGRICULTURE,
1906. FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY.

R. 4W.

R. 3W.

T. 2S. T.3S.

R. 2W. TT

'T.4S.

;GAPLEARADNMNRDEOTNDARIZ

)(Patented

T. 5S. Ist Standard Parallel South T.6S.

°34

30 Westfrom Washington.

1

3244

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

Reserved settlement.

from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation . IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six ,

[ SEAL. ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

November 5, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Chiricahua For-

est Reserve, Ariz.

WHEREAS, the Chiricahua Forest Reserve, in the Territory of

Preamble.

Arizona, was established by proclamation dated July thirtieth , nine-

Vol. 32, p. 2019. teen hundred and two ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the Territory

Vol. 30, p. 36.

of Arizona, which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June
fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modifica-

Boundaries larged.

tion may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, en- or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ;
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Chiricahua Forest Re-

Lands excepted.

serve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

Reserved settlement.

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists. from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

CHIRICAHUA FOREST RESERVE, ARIZONA.
GILA AND SALT RIVER MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE.
1906 . FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY,

R. 29E.

R. 30E

T.15S,
R. 31 E. Third Standard Parallel South

T.16S

T.17S. T.18S. T.19 S.

T. 20 S. Fourth Standard Parallel South . T. 21 S.
Longitude 32 15 West from Washington,

EKALAKA FOREST RESERVE ,  .
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE. POREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906 . FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY.

R. 58 E.

R. 59 E.

R. 57E.

T 2N.

T.1N.

R. 59 E T.1S

R. 57E.

R. 58 E LongRude Westfrom Washington,

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.

3245 November 5 , 1906 .

WHEREAS, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico, esMtaRgesdearlveen, aN. MFeoxr. which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and Preamble.
it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart
said lands as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103.
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes,,"" " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of. the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by pub-
lic proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ":
Forest reserve, Now, therefore, Í , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United New Mexico. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section
twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there
are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public
Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of
land, in the Territory of New Mexicó, shown as the Magdalena Forest
Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdraw Lands excepted.
or reserved, at this date, from settlement , entry, or other appropriation, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal , reservation, or

claim exists.

Warning is hereby

given to

all

persons not

to

make

settlement

upon

Reserved settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

from

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[SEAL . ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 5, 1908.

A PROCLAMATION
Ekalaka Forest WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Montana, which are Reserve, Mont. hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble. that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ; And whereas, it is provided by section twenty - four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103. Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ,"' That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part
VOL XXXIV, PT 3--33

3246

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ; "

Forest reserve,

Montana.

Now, therefore , I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

- are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Ekalaka Forest Reserve

on the diagram forming a part hereof. Lands excepted." This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved , at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

Reserved settlement.

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists. from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and
[ SEAL . ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

November 5, 1906.

BY THE PRESident of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Snowy Mountains

Forest Reserve, WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Montana, which are.

Mont.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103.
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth , whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ";

Forest reserve,

Montana.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Snowy Mountains For-

est Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. Lands excepted.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

T1N.3
-+ T1N.2

3SPNaotdrraatnlhdlealrd

46° 40'

N1T.1 R1E.7

+

RE.18

R1E.9

ER2.0

R2E.1

SMFR, EONSRUOEENWRSTVYTAEINS

M . ONTANA

MPMAB. REAONIRSDNNIETCDAIPANANAL

1. 906

FAS,USD.O.EGOFERRPVIETICSCUTELTURE

PC.LOfGl.oramotpmsiled

B.FRoerusensrdtvaery

DN5,1)9AO0TV6E.EDMBER

[DFAPOIRAOFAORGCTMRLIANMGATION

W,faresoshmtington

3°2

1

DN6,1]9AO0TV6EDMBER [DFAPOIORAFAROGMCTRILANAMGMATION

ER2.4

RE2.5

T1S.2

T1S.3 R2E..3 T1S.4

BOISE

RE2.9

MERIDIAN

LABIANNSDEE

T1S1.

R3E.0

R3E,.1

S1T.2 R2E.8
T1. .3S

T1S.4

T1S.5

ST1.5

IDAHO UTAH T1N.5
T1N.4.

T1. .3N

SLAKLET

MERIDIAN

LBA1WR.6IAN.NSDEE

R1W.5.

T1S.6

WR1.2.

R1W.4.

RW1.3.

W.f3°' are60soshmtington

RF, IEOAVSRFEEETRRSVTE IU. DTAAHHO
ASF,.OSDU.EGOEFRRPVIETICSCUTELTURE 1. 905
fC.,PLOG.lroaomtmpsiled BRF, oersuensrdtvaery

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3247

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists.
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

setRtelseemrevnetd.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

4

THEODORE Roosevelt

By the President :

ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 5, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS,

the

public

lands

in

the

States

of

Idaho

and

Utah,

Raft River Forest Reserve, Idaho

which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and and Utah.

Preamble.

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

said lands as a public reservation ;

And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one , entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes,"' " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in
part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial
value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by pub-
lic proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
Forest reserve, Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Idaho and Utah. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the States of Idaho and Utah, shown as the Raft River

Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Lands excepted.

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists.
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and ' caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Reserved settlement.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hun-

dred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON Acting Secretary of State.

3248

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

November 5, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Lemhi Forest Reserve, Idaho.

WHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Idaho, which are

Preamble.

" hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as

a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,"" " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by pub-

lic proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and

the limits thereof ; "

Forest reserve, Jdaho.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Pub-

lic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Idaho, shown as the Lemhi Forest Reserve on

the diagram forming a part hereof.
Lands excepted. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists.

Reserved from

settlement..

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one

hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

November 5, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Peloncillo. Forest Reserve, N. Mex.

WHEREAS, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico,

Preamble.

which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber,

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

T. 27 N.

' T. 26 N,

T. 25 N. T. 24 N.
R. 19 E.

T. 23 N.

T. 22 N.

T. 21 N.

A AN NT MO

RY DA UN BO

LEMHI FOREST RESERVE ,
IDAHO . BOISE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906. FORE Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
MEXICO Forest Reserve Boundary.
[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED NOVEMBER 5, 1906.]

T. 20 N. 45
T. 19 N.
T. 18 N.

RESERVATION

T. 17 N. T. 16 N. T. 15 N. T. 14 N

T. 13 N.
R. 20 E. T. 12 N.

T. 11 N.
R. 21 E. T. 10N.

T.9N.

R. 22 E. T.8 N.
R. 23 E. T.7N.
R. 24 E. R. 25 E. T. 6 N.

R. 26 E. T.5 N.

R. 29 E. R. 30 E.

R. 27 E. R. 28 E.

37° Longitude West from Washington.

I

R. 22 W. T.30 S.

PELONCILLO FOREST RESERVE, NEW MEXICO.
NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE.. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906 FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY.

R 21 W.

R. 20 W.

R. 19 W.

R. 18 W.

.T. 31 S.

ARIZONA

T.32 S.

'T. 33 S.
T.34 S. ICO

32 Longitude Westfrom Wasington."

arrw

I

1

SAN MATEO FOREST RESERVE ,

NEW MEXICO. NEW MEXICO MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE.

FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE

1906 . FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

R. 8W

R. 7W.

R. 6W.

R. 5W.

T. 4S.

1st Standard

Parallel

T 5S.
R. 4 W. South
T.6S.

T. 7S.

T.8S.

T. 9S.

2nd Standard

Parallel

South

30° 30 West from Washington.

T. 10 S.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3249

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial
value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public
proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United NeFwoMreexsitco.reserve, States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there
are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the Territory of New Mexcio, shown as the Peloncillo Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

Lands excepted.

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or

claim exists.

Warning

is

hereby

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

settlement

Reserved settlement.

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[ SEAL. ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 5, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

San Mateo ForWHEREAS, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico, est Reserve, N. Mex.
which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes, " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
rorest reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United New Mexico.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the Territory of New Mexico, shown as the San Mateo

Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement , entry, or other appropria-

Lands excepted.

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

3250

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

Reserved settlement.

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State..

November 5, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Salmon River Forest Reserve, WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Idaho, which are

Idaho. Preamble.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ;
Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,"' " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservation and the

limits thereof ; "

Forest reserve,

Idaho.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Pub-

lic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Idaho , shown as the Salmon River Forest

Lands excepted.

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion , for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

Reserved settlement.

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

SALMON RIVER FOREST RESERVE , IDAHO .
BOISE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, U S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906. Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary.

SALMON RIVER

R. 21 E. R: 22 E. T 23 N.

T. 22 N

T. 21 N.

T. 20 N. 45
T. 19 N.
R. 21 E. T 18 N.

T. 17N.

FORK SALMORNIVER

T. 16 N.
R. 20 E. -IT. 15 N.
R. 19E. T. 14 N

IDDLE M

HarshCVr C alle ree yk

T.13N.

T. 12 N.

SALMON

T. 11 N.

R. 15 E. R. 16 E. R 17E. R 18 E.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED NOVEMBER 5, 1906]

VOL XXXIV, Pt 3- -34

37° 30' Longitude West from Washington.

1 1

1

BABOQUIVARI FOREST RESERVE ARIZONA .
GILA AND SALT RIVER MERIDIAN AND BASE FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE, 1906 . FOREST RE6ERVE BOUNDARY.

R. 7E 3rd Standard

R. 8 E. Parallel

R 9E South

T 16 S. 32

T 17 S.

T 18 S

T. 19 S,

T. 20 S.
4th. Standard Parallel South 34" 30" West from Washington.

1
1 J

INDEPENDENCE FOREST RESERVE,
NEVADA . MT DIABLO BASE LINE AND MERIDIAN.
FOREST SERVICE. US DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE.
1906. FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

R. 52 E

R 53E.

R. 54 E.

T.43N

T. 42 N.

T.41 N.

'°4310

39 West from Washington"

T. 40 N. T. 39 N.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3251

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 5, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the

public

lands

in the

Territory

of

Arizona ,

which

Baboquivari Forest Reserve, Ariz.

are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it Preamble.

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said

lands as a public reservation ; And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ":
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

Forest Arizona.

reserve,

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Pub-

lic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the Territory of Arizona , shown as the Baboquivari Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Lands excepted.

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon Reserved from settlement.
the lands reserved by this proclamation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 5, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS,

the

public

lands

in

the

State

of

Nevada ,

which

are

Independence Forest Reserve,

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Nev.

Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation; And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled , "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

3252

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ";

Forest reserve,

Nevada,

Now , therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation , for the use and benefit of the people, all the

tracts of land, in the State of Nevada , shown as the Independence

Lands excepted.

Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Reserved settlement.

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered
by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[ SEAL.]

Six, and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

November 5, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Charleston For-

est Reserve, Nev.

WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Nevada, which are

Preamble.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1106. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act

of Congress, approved March third , eighteen hundred and ninetyone, entitled, " An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,," " That the President of the United States may, from time

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly

or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall,

by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reserva-

tions and the limits thereof ";

Forest reserve,

Nevada.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation , for the use and benefit of the people, all the

tracts of land, in the State of Nevada, shown as the Charleston

Lands excepted.

Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or
reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation ,

for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

CHARLESTON FOREST RESERVE, NEVADA.
MT DIABLO MERIDIAN AND BASE FOREST SERVICE. U S DEPT OF AGRICULTURE,
1906. FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

R. 55 E

R. 56 E.

R. 57 E.

R. 58E

T.18 S.

T.19 S.

T. 20 S. 5th Standard Paralel South T.21 S.
Longitude 38 25 West from Washington.

:

149 T6N5 R1W.. T6N.4
T6N.3

IDAHO 

BRITISH IDAHO

KFR, EOSROEETRSEVTNEAI

MAI, DNOADNHTOANA

FS,USD.OA,.EGFOERRPVIETICSCUTELTURE

1. 906

CfGLOP.loramotpmsiled RBFeorsuensrdtvaery

COLUMBIA 

INTERNATIONAL
BLIONUENDARY T3N.7

T3N.6
2WR7. NT..35

NT6..2 R1E.

RE..2 TN.61
R3. E

DN15,]9AO0TV6.EDMBER

[DFAPOIOARFAROGMTCRILANAMGMATION

BOUNDARY

3RW.4

BMaL. eionarnidsiesedeian

T3N.4

JN.T.33

N3T.2.

R2W.8. T3N1.

3WRR.233 TN3.0
R-3W1. WR3.0. 2WR9.
WL.f3°oare9nsogmhtitnugdteon

MPaBL. reionairndnsnietecdiaipnaaanl

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906 .

3253

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or

claim exists.

Warning

is

hereby

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

settlement

Reserved settlement.

from

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL. ] six, and of the Independence of the United States the

one hundred and thirty- first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 5, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS , the Kootenai Forest Reserve, in the State of Montana, ResKeorovtee,nMaiontFo. raenstd

was established by proclamation dated August thirteenth, nineteen IdParheoa. mble.

hundred and six ;

Ante, p. 3225.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

Idaho, which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June
fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight ,

Vol. 30, p. 36.

and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modifica-

tion may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve,
or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve "; Boundaries en-
Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said
act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Kootenai Forest

Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram

forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or
reserved, at this date, from settlement , entry, or other appropriation , for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered by

Lands excepted.

any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal , reservation , or claim exists..
Reserved Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement.
the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

3254

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

November 5 , 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Big Hole Forest

Reserve, Mont.

WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Montana, which are

Preamble.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

Post, p. 3281 .

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ;
Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses," That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits

thereof ";

Forest reserve, Montana.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts

of land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Big Hole Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. Lands excepted. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

Reserved settlement.

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 5th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON Acting Secretary of State.

November 6, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Little Belt Forest Reserve, Mont.

WHEREAS , the Little Belt Forest Reserve, in the State of Mon-

Freamble.

tana , was established by proclamation dated August sixteenth, nine-

AVnotle. ,3p2., 3P18200.22. teen hundred and two, and was enlarged, by proclamation dated Post, p. 3277. October third, nineteen hundred and five, to include additional lands

in the State of Montana ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, in the State of Montana, which are in part covered with timber, and by excluding therefrom certain lands ;

PortioRaonodt oBfo nHGaell undaFroyrtees c Rt
eser

R.14W. R.13W. R 12W. R.11W.

Montana Principal Meridian and Base, R.16W. R 15W.

T 3N. R. 10W.R. 9W

T.2N. R. 17W

T. IN. R. 19W. R.18W.

T, 1 S.

T.2S.

RAL
T. 25 N.
T.24 N. R. 23 E T.23 N.
T. 22 N. R. 24 E. T-21 N.
T. 20N. 45°
T. 19 N.

T.3S.

T.4S.

T.5S.

T.6S.

T.7S.

T.8S.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION

T.9S.

DATED NOVEMBER 5, 1906]

T 10S.

T. 18N

T.11S

T. 17N.
R. 25 E. T. 16 N.
R. 26 E. T. 15 N.
R. 27E R. 28 E. T. 14 N

T. 12S.
T. 13S.
T. 14S. R.8W. R.7W. R. 6W.

T.13 N.

BIG HOLE FOREST RESERVE,

R. 29 E T. 12 N.

R. 33 E.R. 34 E.

MONTANA: BOISE MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE..
1906. Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Roundary.

T. 11 N. R. 30 E. T. 10N.
T.9N. R.31 E T.8N .

Boise Meridian and Base

R. 32E.

Longitude West 36° from Washington.

I
2 "

LITTLE BELT FOREST RESERVE, MONTANA.
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE, FOREST SERVICE, U.8. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE, 1808. FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY.
R.SE. RAE. R.SE. R.6 E. R.7 E. - RBE. RAE. RJOE RIIE R22E RISE RHE T.17N.
TION.
T.16 N.
T.14.N.
T.13 N.
T.12 N. TIIN
TION.
TON.
T8 N.
T.7 N.
VOL XXXIV, PT 3-35

34-365.9.57

ISB

t

 JOSE LAND SAN
MARIA BACA F3NLOOAT Anconfirmed

NOITA SO T GRAN

SMANRTIIASIMA CD". AERLMEN
LGARNADNT C()onfirmed

R1.4E

R1E.5

A1. 0E

HFR, EOUSRAEECRSHVTUECA

ARIZONA

BMSG.ARIEANLVRSLDAEIETRDIAN

1. 906

DAFO,SUS.GEOFRPVITEICSCUTELTURE

BF.ROESRUENRSDVTAERY

DISGEANLACIO

BALACOMARIA GLRAANNDT

(C)onfirmed

T. .21S

FHOURATCHUCA RMIELSIETRAVRAYTION T2S.2

SRANFAEL LDZAENZA ILAND GRANT (C)onfirmed

ARIZONA

1R7E

MEXICOR18E

RE1.9

Wf3°ar3e0soshmtington

T2. .35
T2S.4 INTERNATIONALB2ER0.OUNDAL. RIYNE R2E.1

31° 30'

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3255

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United Boundaries changed.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act

Vol. 30, p. 36. of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil

expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth ,

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the boundaries of the aforesaid Little Belt Forest Reserve

are hereby further changed , and that they are now as shown on the

diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn. Lands excepted.

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal , reservation , or claim exists.
Excluded The lands hereby excluded from the reserve and restored to the opened to

lands settle-

public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but ment.

shall not be subject to entry, filing, or selection until after ninety days

notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

Reserved settlement.

from

caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 6, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the public lands in the Territory of Arizona,

which

Huachuca Forest Reserve, Ariz.

are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it Preamble.

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

said lands as a public reservation ; And whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur-

poses,"" That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations , and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits

thereof "; Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Forest reserve,

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation , for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the Territory of Arizona, shown as the Huachuca Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

Lands excepted.

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

3256

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

Reserved settlement.

tion , for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be cov-
ered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal , reservation , or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of November, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

November 6, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Coeur D'Alène WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Idaho, which are
FIodraehsot. Reserve; hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.
that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands
Vol. 26, p. 1103. as a public reservation ; And whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one ,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits

thereof ; "

Forest reserve,

daho.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Idaho, shown as the Coeur d'Alène Forest Reserve

on the diagram forming a part hereof.
Lands excepted. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or

reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation ,

for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered by

any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim

exists .

Reserved from settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[SEAL. ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : BOBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

4°8 'OREI LLE

T. 56 N. T 55 N. T.54 N T. 53 N. T. 52 N. T. 51 N. T.COL5O0RWNA.LL LAKE T.49 N. T.48 N. C

COEUR D'ALÉNE FOREST RESERVE , IDAHO.
BOISE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906. Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary. Five Sections surrounding the town of Murray
are not reserved in this proclamation.

T.47 N. T. 46N. T.45 N.

R. 6E. MONTAN 1DANO

DARY BOUN LINE

T.44 N.

T. 43 N.

T. 42 N.

T.41 N
R.2E. T. 40 N.
R.3E. R.4. E. R.5E. T. 39 N.
T. 38 N.

BITTER ROOT FOREST RESERVE.

T. 37N. BITTER ROOT FOREST RESERVE

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1906.1

39° West from Washington.

P

1

.... 1

R. 45 E.

R. 5W. R.4W.

R. 3W. R. 2W.

R. 1 W.

49

INITNETERNATIONAL BOUNDAR LING + +++ +

+

T. 65 N.

T. 40 N.

+

++ T. 39 N. L +

+++++

+

+

JT. 64 N.

++

+++

T. 38 N.r + ++ L + r+
T. 37N.
++
T. 36 N.

T. 63 N. T. 62 N. T.61 N.

T. 35 N.

T. 60 N.

T. 34 N. + T. 33 N.

+

T. 59 , T. 58 N.

O N D E

T. 32 N.

T. 57 N.
PRIEST RIVER FOREST RESERVE, IDAHO AND WASHINGTON .
WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE, BOISE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE.
FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF. AGRICULTURE 1906 .
Compiled from G. L. O. Plats. Forest Reserve Boundary.
[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1906.3
40° West from Washington.

!

R.4. E.
SANDA PUEBLO "GRANT

R.SE.

R. 6E.

LION GRANT 3 Standard Parallel N.

T 12 N.

SAN PEDRO GRANT

MANZANO FOREST RESERVE , ELLENA GALLEGOS GRANT
NEW MEXICO ,

NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,

1906 .

Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.

35°

Forest Reserve Boundary

T. 11 N. T.10N.. T.9N.

R.3 E. 2d Standard Paralia North

ISLETA PUEBLO GRANT

T.ON.

LO DE PADILLA GRANT

CHILILI GRANT T.7N.

(DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1906.]
TOME GRANT

TOWNGROAFNTTAJIQUE T.6N.
TOWNGORFATNOTRREON
T.5 N. TOWN  MANZANO
GRANT Standard Parallel
T.4N.

CASA COLORADO GRANT T. 3N.

T.2N.
SEVILLETA GRANT T. IN.
Base Line. 29° 30' West from Washington.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

3257

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 6, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS , the Priest River Forest Reserve, in the States of Priest River Forest Reserve,

Idaho and Washington , was established by proclamation dated Feb- IdPahroeaamnbdleW. ash.

ruary twenty-second, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven ;

Vol. 29, p. 903.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted Post, p. 3309.

by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

Idaho, which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved
June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , "An Act

Vol. 30, p. 36.

Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby author-

ized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modi-

fication may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such
reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve Boundaries en
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.
States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the said
act of Congress do proclaim that the aforesaid Priest River Forest

Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram

forming a part hereof. The proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or
reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation,

Lands excepted.

for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists.
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon setRtelseemrevnetd. the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and
[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 6, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

Manzano Forest WHEREAS , the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico, Reserve, N. Mex.
which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and Preamble.

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Vol. 26 , p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses,,"" " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

3258

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits

thereof".

Forest reserve,

New Mexico.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by sectio.n

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

Lands excepted .

land, in the Territory of New Mexico, shown as the Manzano Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

Reserved settlement.

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of November in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty- first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

November 6, 1906 .

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Pryor Moun- WHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Montana, which are

steariven,sMoFnotr.est Re- hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur-

poses,,"" " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ";

Forest reserve,

Montana.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Montana , shown as the Pryor Mountains Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof.
Lands excepted. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation, for any purpose other than national reclamation or forest uses,

PRYOR MOUNTAINS FOREST RESERVE ,  .
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE. AND
SIXTH PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN, FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.
Forest Reserve Boundary.

R. 24 E.

R. 25 E.

R. 26 E.

T.5S

First Standard

South

T.6 S.

R. 27 E.

R. 28 E.

R. 29 E.

T. 7S.

T.8S.

T.98.
45° T. 58 N

MONTANA WYOMING

BOUNDARYA LINE ,

T. 57 N R.99W.

R. 98 W.

R 97W. R. 96 W.

R. 95W.

R. 94 W. R. 93W.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1906]

Longitude 31 ° 30 West from Washington.

1

VOL XXXIV, pt 3- -36

MISSOULA FOREST RESERVE ,  .
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats,
Forest Reserve Boundary.
[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED NOVEMBER 6, 1906.]

R. 17W.

R. 16W.

R. 18W.

17N KEWIS
AND BCOLUANRDKAFROYRLEISNTERESERVE

R. 15 W.

COUNTY

DEERLODGE LINE

R. 19 W. DARY
BOUN

EAD: IND ATH

RESERVATION

MISSOULA

T. 16 N T. 15 N

OO RIVER BIG BLACKP

T. 13 N.

T. 14 N

36° 30 West from Washington.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3259

or which may be covered by any prior valid claim, so long as the
withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists. Reserved
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement. the lands reserved by this proclamation.

from

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[ SEAL . ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 6, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the

public

lands

in

the

State

of

Montana,

which

are

Missoula Forest Reserve, Mont.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approyed March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,"" That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ";

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United Forest Montana .

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

reserve,

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts

of land, in the State of Montana , shown as the Missoula Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof. This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn
or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Lands excepted .

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered
by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists.
Reserved Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement settlement. upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of November , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six , and

[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

3260

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

November 6, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA A PROCLAMATION

Lolo Forest Reserve, Mont.

WHEREAS , the Lolo Forest Reserve, in the State of Montana,

Preamble.

was established by proclamation dated September twentieth, nineteen

Ante, p. 3234. hundred and six ;

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certai lands, within the State of Montana, which are in part covered with timber;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for

the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby au-

thorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or

may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such

modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of

such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such re-

Boundaries larged.

serve " ; en- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Lolo Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

Lands excepted.

boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn

or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

Reserved settlement.

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation , or claim exists. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one

hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

November 6, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Sawtooth Forest Reserve, Idaho.

WHEREAS , the Sawtooth Forest Reserve, in the State of Idaho,

Preamble.

was established by proclamation dated May twenty-ninth, nineteen

Ante, p. 3058. hundred and five ;

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of Idaho, which are in part covered with timber ;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , " An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight,

R3W.2.

WR3.1.

R3W2.09.

W.

R2W.7.

R2W.6.

T2N.0 RW..25

R2W.4.
1 T1N.9

12AHO

FS,REOASRWEETRSOVTEOTH

ABLINANILEE

ATHEAD FL INDIAN.

MON ID TAN
AHO A

47

L,RFEOSRLEEORSVTE

M .. ONTANA

1. 906

LPM.BAIREANONIRSDNENIETCDIAIPNAANAL OADUSF,.S, .EGOFERRPVIETICSCUTELTURE

CipfGLOP. .nla.roaromtmpsiled

DN6,1]9AO0T6V.EDMBER

BRF. oeorsueensrdtvaery FDOPA[ IORAFAROGMCTRILANAMGMATION

UNDARY BO LINE

NT1.8 R2W.3.
ENT1S.7 ERVAT ION

WR2.10. BOUNDARY
T1. .6N

1-N. .5 T

T1N.4

,1NT.3 1TN.2

T1N.1

WL.f3°oar8ensosghmtiitnugdteon

I 
1

NT1.3 T1N.2

R.R7..E56E

R8E..S

T1.0N 9T. N
T. .8N T7. .N T. .6N T. .5N
NT4. T3.N T2.N T.IN R7. .E

RIV SALMON NT1.3
BE..12 R. 13E

ER1.5 OE1RR..6INRK.

SFR, EOASRWEETRSOVTEOTH

I. DAHO

1. 906

BMAL. IOAENNIRSDESIEEDIAN FAS,USD.O..EGOFERRPVIETICSCUTELTURE
PfC.GLOl.roaomtmpsiled B.FRoeursensrdtvaery

NT1.0
T. .9N 1.RE.89E T. .8N

DN6,1]9AO0TV6.EDMBER P[DFAORIOAFAORGCMTRLIANMGATION
2ER.23 T. .7N

T. .6N T.5N

T4N.

T1N. E59R1.1.R...13402RE.

T2. .N R1E. .657RE.
3°LWfora8enossgmhtiitnugdteon

T.3.N 2REE1..13290R. BMaL. oienanirdsesieedian

1 F

COLORADO NEW MEXICO

BOUNDARY LINE

R.SE. R. 6E.

JEMEZ FOREST RESERVE ,
NEW MEXICO, NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE.
FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE, 1906.
Compiled from G. L. O. Plats. Forest Reserve Boundary.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION

DATED NOVEMBER 7, 1906)

R. 4. E.

R. 3E.

R. 1 W R. 1 E. R.2E

R. 7E. R. 8. E. T.32 N. R. 9.E. T.31 N.
T.30 N.
T. 29 N.
T. 28 N. R. 10E.
T. 27 N.

T. 26 N.

T. 26N.

R. 11 E.

T. 25 N.

T. 25 N.

FOGLRVAANT 4G5R1AQNUTIO
LOBATO GRANT

T. 24N.

R. 2W

PIEDRA LUMBRE

GRANT

T. 23N.

T. 24 N. T. 23 N.

MJO

T, 22N.

T. 22N.

T. 21 N. R3W. 36 T. 20 N.

T. 19 N.

T. 18 N.

CANYON DE SAN DIEGO

GRANT

T 17 N. T 16N

OJO DEL ESPIRGIRTAUNSTANTO

PJUEEWBELZO GRANT SAN VORO GRANT

T. 15N R. 2W. R 1W R. 1 E. R.2E.

T. 21 N.

LOCBAATCIAON

RABON VIGIL GRANT

SAPNTUAEBCLLOARA T, 20 N. GRANT
ILDSEAFNONSO T. 19N. PGUREABNLTO
T. 18 N

R. 7E

CANADADE COCHITIGRANT

T. 17N.

DEPCUOECBHLITO

B0O1R9RDEEGO

GRANT T. 16 N.

GRANT

SANTO DOMINGO

PUEBLO GRANT

T. 15N.

R. 3E R.4 E R SE

R 6E 

30° Longitude West from Washington.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906,

3261

and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may here-

after be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modifica-
tion may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, 99
or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ; Boundaries en-
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act
of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Sawtooth Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.

This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or Lands excepted.

reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation , for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered by

any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim

exists.

Warning is hereby given

to

all

persons

not to make

settlement

upon

Reserved settlement.

from

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt .

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of November , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ROBERT BACON

Acting Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 7, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

Jemez Forest ReWHEREAS, the Jemez Forest Reserve, in the Territory of New serve, N. Mex.

Mexico, was established by proclamation dated October twelfth, nine- Preamble.

teen hundred and five ;

Ante, p. 3182.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the Terri-

tory of New Mexico, which are in part covered with timber; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress , approved June
fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled , " An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

Vol. 30, p. 36 .

fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized

at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may

hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modi-

fication may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of su99ch

reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ;

Boundaries en-

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the said

act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Jemez Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.
This proclamation will not take. effect upon any lands withdrawn or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropria-

Lands excepted .

tion, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered

3262

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal , reservation , or

claim exists. Reserved from.

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington , this 7th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL . ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

November 7, 1906 .

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Taos Forest Re-

serve. N. Mex.

WHEREAS, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico,

Preamble.

which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled, " An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,"" That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public pro-

clamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ":

Forest reserve,

New Mexico.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the Territory of New Mexico, shown as the Taos Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof.

Lands excepted.

This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or

reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropriation, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be covered by

any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reservation, or claim

exists.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 7th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United Sates the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

R. 13E. T. 30 N.
T. 29 N. R. 12 E. T. 28 N.

R. 14 E.

R. 15 E.

R. 16 E.

SANGRE DE CRISTO GRANT

R. 17 E.

LAN D
GRAN T

LL WE AX M

MAXWELLLAND GRANT

T. 27N. ARROYO HONDO GRANT

ANTOI LE N R E OU GRA X NT

I LUCERBO

3630

T. 26 N.

T. 25 N.

SAN FERNANDO DE TAOS !

RANCHO 1
DEL RIO

T.24 N.

GRANDE GRANT

TAOS FOREST RESERVE , NEW MEXICO ,
NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE, 1906 . Compiled from G. L. O. Plats. Forest Reserve Boundary.
[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED NOVEMBER 7, 1906.]
28° 30' West from Washington.



TUMACACORI FOREST RESERVE ARIZONA.
GILA AND SALT RIVER MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U.S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE. 1906 . FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

MGE2eunriiddeian

R.12 E.

R.13E.

T. 20 S.

T. 21 S..

T. 22S

R. 9E. T. 23 S
R.10E.

R.11E.

R.12 E.

T. 24S

R.13E.

27 Longitude 34° Westfrom Washington

EL MORRO NATIONAL MONUMENT, Embracing the S. ½ of N E. and N. ½ of S E. , Sec. 6,
T. 9 N., R. 14 W., New Mexico Meridian, NEW MEXICO, Containing 160 acres.
1

Sec

Old Zuni Road. INSCRIPTIONS RUINS. El Morro or INSCRIIPTnIsONcS.ription Rock. SpINrSiCnRgIPTIONS.

ME

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, GENERAL LAND OFFICE,
Wm. A. Richards, Commissioner.
[MAP ATTACHED TO AND MADE A PART OF THE PROCLAMATION DATED DECEMBER 8, 1906]

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

3263 November 7, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

Tumacacori ForWHEREAS , the public lands in the Territory of Arizona, which est Reserve, Ariz.
Preamble. are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it
appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said
lands as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103.
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,
entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-
poses,," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth , whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ";

Forest reserve,

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Arizona.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the Territory of Arizona , shown as the Tumacacori Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof.
This proclamation will not take effect upon any lands withdrawn or reserved, at this date, from settlement, entry, or other appropri-

Lands excepted .

ation, for any purpose other than forest uses, or which may be

covered by any prior valid claim, so long as the withdrawal, reser-

vation, or claim exists.

Warning

is

hereby

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

settlement

Reserved settlement.

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 7th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ]

of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

November 28, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

Game Preserve, WHEREAS, it is provided by the act of Congress, approved June Grand Canyon Fortwenty-ninth, nineteen hundred and six, entitled, " An Act For the estPrReesaemrbvlee,. Ariz. protection of wild animals in the Grand Canyon Forest Reserve," Ante, pp. 607, That the President of the United States is hereby authorized to 3009, 3223.
designate such areas in the Grand Canyon Forest Reserve as should, in his opinion, be set aside for the protection of game animals and be recognized as a breeding place therefor.
" Sec. 2. That when such areas have been designated as provided in section one of this Act, hunting, trapping, killing, or capturing of game animals upon the lands of the United States within the limits
VOL XXXIV, PT 3-- -37

3264

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

of said areas shall be unlawful, except under such regulations as may be prescribed from time to time by the Secretary of Agriculture ; and

any person violating such regulations or the provisions of this Act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction in any United States court of competent jurisdiction , be fined in a

sum not exceding one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year, or shall suffer both fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
" Sec. 3. That it is the purpose of this Act to protect from trespass

the public lands of the United States and the game animals which

may be thereon, and not to interfere with the operation of the local

game laws as affecting private, State, or Territorial ,lands "; And whereas, for the purpose of giving this Act effect, it appears

desirable that a part of the Grand Canyon Forest Reserve be declared

a Game Preserve ;

Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Arizona. Part of, set apart

States, by virtue

of the

power

in

me

vested

by

the

aforesaid

Act

of

as a game preserve. Congress, do hereby make known and proclaim that all those lands

within the Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, lying north and west of

the Colorado River, in the Territory of Arizona, are designated and

set aside for the protection of game animals, and shall be recognized

as a breeding place therefor, and that the hunting, trapping, killing, or capturing of game animals upon the lands of the United States

within the limits of said area is unlawful, except under such regula-

tions as may be prescribed from time to time by the Secretary of

Agriculture.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 28th day of November, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and

[ SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

December 8, 1906.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

El Morro National Whereas, it is provided by section two of the Act of Congress, apMonument, N. Mex.

Preamble.

proved June 8, 1906 , entitled , "An act for the preservation of Ameri-

Ante, p. 225. can antiquities ", " That the President of the United States is hereby

authorized, in his discretion , to declare by public proclamation his-

toric landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects

of historic or scientific interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the Government of the United States to be national

monuments, and may reserve as a part thereof parcels of land , the limits of which in all cases shall be confined ' to the smallest area com-

patible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected ":

And whereas, the rocks known as El Morro and Inscription Rock in .

the Territory of New Mexico, situated upon public lands owned by the United States, are of the greatest historical value and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting aside said rocks as: a national monument with as much land as may be necessary for the proper protection thereof;

PROCLAMATIONS , 1906.

3265

Now, therefore,

I,

THEODORE

ROOSEVELT,

President

of the

National ment, New

monuMexico.

United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by

section two of the aforesaid Act of Congress," do hereby set aside as

the El Morro National Monument the rocks aforesaid and for the

proper protection thereof do hereby reserve from settlement, entry or
other disposal, all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying
and being situate in the Territory of New Mexico, and within the
boundaries particularly described as follows, to wit : The south half of the north-east quarter and the north half of the Description.
south- east quarter of section six, township nine north, range fourteen west, New Mexico Meridian, as shown upon the map hereto attached
and made a part of this proclamation . Reserved from
Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to appropriate , settlement, etc. excavate, injure or destroy said monument or to settle upon any of the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 8th day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six,

[SEAL. ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

December 8, 1906.

A PROCLAMATION

Montezuma CasWhereas, it is provided by section two of the Act of Congress , tle National Monu-
approved June 8, 1906, entitled, "An act for the preservation of menPtre, aAmrbizl.e. American antiquities,"" " That the President of the United States is Ante, p. 225.

hereby authorized , in his discretion, to declare by public proclamation

historic land marks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other

objects of historic or scientific interest that are situated upon the

lands owned or controlled by the Government of the United States

to be national monuments, and may reserve as a part thereof parcels

of land, the limits of which in all cases shall be confined to the

smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of

the objects to be protected ";

And, whereas, the prehistoric structure known as Montezuma's

Castle in the Territory of Arizona , situated upon public lands owned

by the United States, is of the greatest ethnological value and scien-

tific interest and it appears that the public good would be promoted by reserving this ruin as a national monument with as much land

as may be necessary for the proper protection thereof;

Now, therefore,

I,

THEODORE

ROOSEVELT,

President

of the

National ment, Ariz.

United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by

section two of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby set aside as

monu-

the Montezuma Castle National Monument the prehistoric structure aforesaid and for the proper protection thereof do hereby reserve

from settlement, entry or other disposal, all those certain tracts, pieces or parcels of land lying and being in the Territory of Arizona, and within, what will be when surveyed, the tracts particularly described as follows, to wit :
The northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of section sixteen,

Description.

the north half of the northeast quarter and northeast quarter of

3266

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906.

northwest quarter of section seventeen, township fourteen north , range five east, Gila and Salt River Meridian, as shown upon the

Reserved from map hereto attached and made a part of this proclamation .

settlement, etc.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all persons not to appro-

priate, excavate, injure or destroy said monument or to settle upon

any of the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and

cause the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington this 8th day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six, and
SEAL.] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty first .

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

December 8, 1906.

B. THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Petrified Forest National Monu-

'Whereas, it is provided by section two of the Act of Congress , ap-

ment, Ariz. Preamble.

proved June 8, 1906 , entitled, "An Act for the preservation of

Ante, p. 225. American Antiquities," " That the President of the United States

is hereby authorized, in his discretion , to declare by public procla-

mation historic land marks, historic and prehistoric structures, and

other objects of historic or scientific interest that are situated upon

the lands owned or controlled by the Government of the United States to be National Monuments, and may reserve as a part thereof

parcels of land , the limits of which in all cases shall be confined to
the smallest area compatible wi99th the proper care and management of the object to be protected ;

And, whereas, the mineralized remains of Mesozoic forests, com-

monly known as the " Petrified Forest," in the Territory of Arizona, situated upon the public lands owned and controlled by the United States, are of the greatest scientific interest and value and it appears that the public good would be promoted by reserving these deposits of fossilized wood as a National monument with as much land as

may be necessary for the proper protection thereof ;

National monument, Arizona.

Now, therefore, I, THEODORE ROOSEVELT, President of the

United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by

section two of the aforesaid Act of Congress, do hereby set aside as

the Petrified Forest National Monument, subject to any valid and

existing rights , the deposits of mineralized forest remains situated

Description .

in Gila and Apache counties, Arizona, more particularly located and described as follows, to wit :
Sections 1 to 18 inclusive in township 16 north, range 23 ; sections 20 to 29 inclusive and sections 31 to 36 inclusive in township 17 north, range 23 ; sections 1 to 12 inclusive and section 18 in township 16 north, range 24 ; sections 2 to 11 inclusive and sections 14 to 36

inclusive in township 17 north , range 24 ; sections 5 , 6 , 7 and 8, in township 16 north , range 25 ; and sections 19, 20, 29 , 30, 31 and 32 in township 17 north, range 25, all east of the Gila and Salt River

Meridian as shown upon the map hereto attached and made a part

of this proclamation.

Reserved from

settlement, etc.

Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons

not to appropriate, excavate, injure or destroy any of the mineral-

ized forest remains hereby declared to be a National monument or

3645-9.375

MONTEZUMA CASTLE NATIONAL MONUMENT,
Embracing the NW.% of NW. of Sec. 16, the N. ½ of N E. % and N E. of NW. 4 of Sec. 17, T. 14 N., R. 5 E. of Gila and Salt River Meridian, ARIZONA , Containing 160 acres.

Verde-L Road to Camp

ll's Wa ift Cl

Montezuma's Castle.

bove a

creek, with

Spring flow ing 50 inches

RoadtoMontezuma Castle. Sec 17
Unsurveyed.

Sec.16

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, GENERAL LAND OFFICE,
Wm. A. Richards, Commissioner.
[MAP ATTACHED TO AND MADE A PART OF THE PROCLAMATION DATED DECEMBER 8, 1906J

R.41E, T. 2N.
T.1N. T. 1 S.

CARIBOU FOREST RESERVE ,

R, 42 E.

IDAHO AND WYOMING. BOISE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE.
6th PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,

SOU TH

1906. OFOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY.

FO RK

BASE LINE

KE SNA OF

RIVER

T. 2 S. T.3S. T.4S. T.5 S. T. 6S. T. 7S. T.8S.

KXPT KCHOP

Standard

T.36 N. T. 35N.
T: 34 N, T. 33 N. R.119W.

T.9S.
R.42 E. T.10 S.

T.11 S.
R. 43E. 2
T.12 S.
R. 44 E.

R. 45 E.

R. 46 E. 34 West from Washington

PETRIFIED FOREST
NATIONAL MONUMENT ,
Embracing sections 1 to 18 inclusive in T. 17 N., R. 23; sections 20 to 29 inclusive and 31 to 36 inclusive in T. 17 N., R. 23; sections 1 to 12 inclusive and section 18 in T. 16 N., R. 24; sections 2 to 11 inclusive and sections 14 to 36 inclusive in T. 17 N., R. 24; sections 5, 6, 7, and 8 in T. 16 N., R. 25; sections 19, 20, 29, 30, 31 and
32 in T. 17 N., R. 25, all East of GILA AND SALT RIVER MERIDIAN,
ARIZONA , Containing 60,776.02 acres.

XAIN S

A

MES

T. 17 N.
RAINBOW 31
7 18 17 T. 16 N
ME

.

9 335 N 33
223

10

17 16

14

23

22 23 24 19 20 (21 22 23 24 19 20 EAGLE HD

23 30 29

26 25 30 29

CANNON ROCK OREST 35 AGAT F

33 34

BRIDG

3T6WINGIANT 32 FOREST

12 14

R. 23 E.

R.24 E.

R.25 E.

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR, GENERAL LAND OFFICE,
Wm. A. Richards, Commissioner.
[MAP ATTACHED TO AND MADE A PART OF THE PROCLAMATION DATED DECEMBER 8, 1906]

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3269

sions of the said Agreement shall apply also to the Island of Porto Rico.

tornar extensivas á Ilha de Porto Rico as estipulações do referido Accordo Commercial

ARTICLE II.

ARTIGO II.

This Additional and Amenda- O presente Accordo Addicional

tory Agreement shall be ratified by His Most Faithful Majesty so soon as possible, and upon official

será ratificado por Sua Magestade El-Rei de Portugal e dos Algarves no mais breve espaço de tem-

notice thereof the President of po possivel e o Presidente dos Esthe United States shall issue his tados Unidos da America logo

Proclamation giving full effect to que lhe fôr officialmente notificada the same. From and after.the essa ratificação promulgará uma

date of such Proclamation this Agreement shall take effect, and shall continue in force during the continuance in force of the said

proclamação dando o Accordo por firme e valioso para produzir seus devidos effeitos. O presente Accordo começará a vigorar desde a

Commercial Agreement May 22, 1899.

signed data de tal proclamação e continu* ará em vigor emquanto o Accordo
Commercial assignado em 22 de Maio de 1899 se conservar vigente.

Done in duplicate in English Feito em duplicado nas lin-

and Portuguese texts at Wash- guas ingleza e portugueza, em ington this nineteenth day of Washington, aos dez e nove dias November, one thousand nine do mez de Novembro de mil nove-

hundred and two.

centos e dous.

Ratifications. Signatures.

JOHN HAY [ SEAL. ] VISCONDE DE ALTE [ SEAL. ]

Now, therefore , be it known that I, Theodore Roosevelt, Presi-

dent of the United States of America, acting under the authority conferred by said Act of Congress, have caused the said Additional

and Amendatory Agreement to be made public, to the end that the same may be observed and fulfilled with good faith by the United States and the citizens thereof.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington, this twenty- fourth day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven,

[ SEAL . ] and of the Independence of the United States of America

the one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

Proclamation.

3270

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

January 25, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Cascade Range Forest Reserve ,

Whereas, the Cascade Range Forest Reserve, in the State of Ore-

Oreg Preamble.

gon, was established by proclamation dated September twenty-eighth ,

Vol. 29. p. 1240 ; eighteen hundred and ninety-three, and the boundaries thereof have

Vol. 32, p. 1972. Post, p. 3300.

been subsequently changed to include additional lands in the State of Oregon, and also to exclude from the reserve certain lands in said

State ;

And whereas it appears that the public good would be promoted by

further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, in the State

Boundaries en- of Oregon, which are in part covered with timber;

Larged.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Vol. 30, p. 36. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven,

entitled, " An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses

of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen

Lands excepted.

hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the aforesaid Cascade Range Forest Reserve is hereby further enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now asshown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent :

Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any. particular tract of land unless the entryman , settler, or claimant con-

tinues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to

which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land

- Coal lands.

within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any

such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing,

which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to

Reserved from the creation of a permanent reservation.

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 25th day of January, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven,

[SEAL. ] and of the Independence , of the United States the one .

dred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1906, 1907.
to locate or settle upon any of the lands reserved and made a part of said monument by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .
Done at the City of Washington, this 8th day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and six
[ SEAL . ] and the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty- first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIIU ROOT Secretary of State.

3267

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THe United StaATES OF AMERICA

January 15, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS , the public lands in the States of Idaho and Wyo- ResCearrvieb,ouIdaho and

ming, which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with tim- Wyo.

ber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting

apart said lands as a public reservation ;

And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in

part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
Forest Reserve, Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Idaho and Wyoming.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Peservation , for the use and benefit of the people, all the

tracts of land, in the States of Idaho and Wyoming, shown as the

Caribou Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by

any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United

States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been

made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make

entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all

lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or

reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for

forest uses is inconsistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not

continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entry-

man, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under

which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this

Coal lands.

proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein de-

scribed, which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but

this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ;

and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land em-

braced in any selection , entry or filing, which has been allowed or

permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation.

3268

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixt.

Done at the City of Washington this 15th day of January, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven,
[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hunhundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

January 24, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

Reciprocity with Whereas His Most Faithful Majesty the King of Portugal and of Portugal.

Preamble.

the Algarves and the United States of America have concluded on

Vol. 31, p. 1974. November 19, 1902 , an Additional and Amendatory Agreement to the

Commercial Agreement of May 22, 1899, between the same High

Contracting Parties, entered into in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of the Tariff Act of the United States approved July 24,

1897, which Additional and Amendatory Agreement is in the English

and Portugese texts, word for word as follows :

Contracting par- The President of the United ties.
States of America and His Most
Faithful Majesty the King of Portugal and of the Algarves, finding it expedient to amend the Commercial Agreement between the two countries, signed at Washington on the 22nd day of May, 1899, have named for this purpose their respective Plenipotentiaries, to wit : Plenipotentiaries. The President of the United
States of America, the Honorable John Hay, Secretary of State of the United States ; and
His Most Faithful Majesty, the Viscount de Alte, His Majesty's Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary at Washington :
Who, after having communicated each to the other their re-
spective full powers, found to be in good and due form, have agreed upon the following additional and amendatory Articles to be taken as part of the said Agreement :

O Presidente dos Estados Unidos da America e Sua Magestade El - Rei de Portugal e dos Algarves, julgando conveniente ampliar o Accordo Commercial entre os dois paizes, assignado em Washington, em 22 de Maio de 1899, nomearam seus respectivos Plenipotenciarios, a saber :
O Presidente dos Estados Unidos da America , o Honorado John Hay, Secretario d'Estado dos Estados Unidos ; e
Sua Magestade El - Rei de Portugal e dos Algarves, o Visconde de Alte, Seu Enviado Extraordinario e Ministro Plenipotenciario em Washington ;
Os quaes, depois de se terem communicado seus respectivos Plenos Poderes, que foram achados em boa e devida forma , convieram. nos seguintes artigos addicionaes, que serão considerados parte integrante do dito Accordo Commercial :

ARTICLE I.

ARTIGO I.

I'rovisions ex- The High Contracting Parties tended to l'orto

As Altas Partes Contratantes

Rico.

mutually agree that the provi- concordam reciprocamente em

7. 7W

R6W..

RFO, EOUSRREARSYVTE

C. OLORADO

1. 906

BMPN.AREAENIRSXDWNIEICDCIIOPAANL ASF,DO,U.EGFOERRPVITEICSCUTELTURE

FRB. oersuensrdtvaery

R1W.0.

R. 9W

R8. .W

R5W..

R4W..

R3W.. NT4.7 4TN.6 NT4.5

NT4.4

38

T4N.3

.T42N

PFIOADAROFIROATCMGLIRANAMGMATION

DF2,1]9AE0TB7ERDUARY

WLf3°oar0ensosghmtitnugdteon

LUMBIA RIVER T. 2CON.

CASCADE RANGE FOREST RESERVE, OREGON .
WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE,

T. 1 N. T. 1 S.
T 2S. T 3 S.

1906 .

T 4S.

Compiled from G. L. O. Plats.

T. 5S.

Forest Reserve Boundary.

T. 6 S.

T. 7S.

T & S.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED JANUARY 25, 1907.]

T.9S T 10 S.

T. 11 S.

T. 12 S. T. 13 S.

BASE LINE NORYLINE

T. 14 S. T. 15 S. T. 16 S T. 17 S.

T. 18 S. T. 19 S. T. 20 S, T. 21 S. T. 22 S T. 23 S. T. 24 S.

T. 25 S. T. 26 S.

T. 27 S.
T. 28 S.
.T. 29 S. 43
T. 30 S.

HOARY LINE

T. 31 S.

T. 32 S. T. 33 S.

T. 34 S T. 35 S. T. 36 S. .T. 37 S.

KLLOAWMEARTH LAKE

Westfrom Washington 45°

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-38

R. 19 E

R. 20E.

R. 21E.

R, 22 E.

R. 23 E.

T.33 S.

COLORADO MGEURIIDDEIAN

T. 34 S. R. 18 E T. 35 S.
T 36S
T 37 S

MONTICELLO FOREST RESERVE, UTAH .
SALT LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE FOREST SERVICE, US DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE
1907. FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY.
32 30 West from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3271

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

February 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the

public

lands

in

the

State

of

Colorado,

which

are

Ouray Forest serve, Colo.

Re-

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ; And whereas, it is provided by section. twenty- four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1106 .

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;
Forest Reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Colorado. States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts
of land, in the State of Colorado, shown as the Ouray Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands Lands excepted. which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States
Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

Coal lands.

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to

protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such
coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not
apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation.
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon Reserved from settlement.
the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the city of Washington this 2nd day of February, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven ,

[ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one

hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3272

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

February 6, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Monticello Forest

Reserve, Utah.

WHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Utah, which are

Preamble.

hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting - apart said lands
as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103.
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by pub-

lic proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and

the limits thereof ";.

Forest Reserve,

Utah.

Now, therefore, Í , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virture of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Utah, shown as the Monticello Forest Reserve

on the diagram forming a part hereof;

Lands excepted.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursu-

ant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent :

Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant con-

Coal lands.

tinues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within

the boundary herein described , which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such

coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not

apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which

has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the crea-

tion of a permanent reservation . Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have haveunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the city of Washington this 6th day of February, in the

[SEAL . ]

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven , and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Secretary of State.

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3273

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

February 6, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

Stony Creek ForWHEREAS, the public lands in the State of California , which are est Reserve, Cal. hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits threof ";
Forest Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Cal. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section
twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there
are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Pub-
lic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts

reserve,

of land, in the State of California, shown as the Stony Creek Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any.legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses

is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to

apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

Coal lands.

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn.

to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any

such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which

has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the

creation of a permanent reservation.

Warning

is

hereby

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

settlement

Reserved settlement.

from

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of February, in the

year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, [ SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one
hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3274

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

February 6, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION.

Big Burros Forest Reserve, N. WHEREAS, the public lands in the Territory of New Mexico,

Mex.

which are hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and

Preamble.

it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

Vol. 26, p. 1103. said lands as a public reservation ; And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled, " An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth , whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proc-

lamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limit thereof ";

Forest reserve,

New Mexico.

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Lands excepted .

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as á Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the Territory of New Mexico, shown as the Big Burros Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States.

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry

or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reserva-

tion for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to

apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or

claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not

Coal lands.

excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not

vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these

exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection ,

entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of

Reserved from record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation .

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven,
[ SEAL . ] and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

STONY CREEK FOREST RESERVE,
CALIFORNIA. MT. DIABLO MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE,

1907. Forest Reserve Boundary.

R.11 W. R. 10W.

R.9W.

R. 8W.

R. 7W. 5th St'd Par, N,

40

T. 25 N.

T. 24 N.

T. 23 N.

R.11 W.

T. 22 N.
T. 21 N. 4th St'd Par, N, T. 20 N.

T.19 N. T.18 N.

R.11 W.
R. 10 W
R. 9W. 46° Longitude West from Washington.

T.17 N.

T.16 N.

R. 7W.

3d St'd Par, N, R. 6 W.

T.15 N

R.8 W.

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED FEBRUARY 6, 1907.]

GLENWOOD FOREST RESERVE,

UTAH .

R. 2 W.

SALT LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,

1907 . FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

R.3W.

R. 1 W. T,24 S.

T. 25 S. 5th Standard Parallel South

T.26 S. R.3W.i
R. 2%W.
T.27S. R. 3W,

T. 28 S.

°380

T. 29S

R.1 W.

T.30 S.

6tH Standard Parallel

R. 3W.

R.2 %W.

South R.2 W

35 West from Washington

R.18 W.

BIG BURROS FOREST RESERVE,

NEW MEXICO.

NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE.

At of

FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF. AGRICULTURE,

1906 . Forest Reserve Boundary.

wallery one The other pur

R.17 W.

R.16 W.

DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED FEBRUARY 6, 1907.

T.17S. palide proch

R.15 W. TOUR.14We

T.18 S.

T.19 S.

T 20 S.

32.30

Longitude 31° 30' West from Washington.

T. 21 S T. 22 S:

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907.

3275

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

February 6, 1907 .

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Utah , which are here- Glenwood Forest

inafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears that ResPerrevaem,blUet.ah.

the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes,,"" " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or

not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public procla-

mation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt ,

President

of the

United

Forest Utah.

Reserve,

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Utah, shown as the Glenwood Forest Reserve on

the diagram forming a part hereof; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record. has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply

to any particular tract of land unless the entryman , settler, or claimant

continues to comply with the law under which the entry , filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to

which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation , however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such

Coal lands.

coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not

apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which

has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the crea-

tion of a permanent reservation.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

Reserved settlement.

from

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 6th day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven,
[SEAL. ] and of the Independence of the United States the one

hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-39

3276 February 14, 1907.

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907. BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

San Jacinto For-

est Reserve, Cal. Preamble.

WHEREAS, the San Jacinto Forest Reserve, in the State of

Vol. 29, p. 893. California, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-

second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, and was subsequently

reduced in area by Executive order dated October seventeenth, nineteen hundred and one ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State

Vol. 30, p. 36.

of California, which are in part covered with timber ;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An Act

Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby au-

thorized at any time to mofy any Executive order that has been

or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by .

such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines

of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such
reserve "; Boundaries en- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged .
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid San Jacinto Forest
Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and
that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram
forming a part hereof. Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by

any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been

made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within, which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting

all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal

or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for

forest uses is inconsistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall

not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under

which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent con-

tinues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this

Coal lands.

proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ;
and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry, or filing, which has been allowed

or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a perma-

nent reservation ; and provided further, that nothing herein shall

operate to interfere with or terminate the right of the Interior Department, under existing laws, to allot to individual Indians any

of the land hereby reserved which may be determined by the Secre-

tary of Agriculture to be chiefly valuable for agricultural purposes.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

T.3 S.

T.4 S. SAN JACIN
T. 5S.

1st Standard Faretlef South

RANCHO GUENTO
'°330

T.6S.

T. 7S.
'T 8S. RANCHO PAUBA R2 M
T. 9S

COAHULANGAN RESERVATION
20 Standard Paralel South R3E R4E RSE RE RFE

RANCHO PAUNA T. 10S
T 11 S
T. 12 S.

SARIORSAENDCEHLOVALLE
BANCHO VALLE DE SANJOSE
SAINNTDARYEESAST SANTAANYCSHAOBEL

3d Standard Parale South

T 13S

VALLREADNECPHAONO

RANCFHOVALLE D SAN UPE

T. 14 S.

KAEMNSECAHSNOAVIDCCEAELLNLTAED PBAADRROENA CAPIYAN GRANGE IND RES

RANCHO CUYAMACA

T. 15 S. BANCHO EL CAJON

T. 16 S.

JAMACHO RANCHO 14th Standard Paralle South

T. 17 S.

OTMAaYgdRaAlxeNtnCeadHiOtas T. 18'S E T. 19 S.

MEX

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED FEBRUARY 14, 1907.]
40° West from Washington

SAN JACINTO FOREST RESERVE, CALIFORNIA .
SAN BERNARDINO MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,
1907. Forest Reserve Boundary.

34-3659.75

LITTLE BELT FOREST RESERVE,  .
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, US DEPT.OF AGRICULTURE
1906 . FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
R 3E R 4E R SE R.6E R 7E. R.BE R9E. R 10E R11E R. 12E. R.13E. R.14E.
T.17N

T 16N.

T.15N T. 14N.

T. 13N.

1831

North

T.12 N.

7.11 N.

TION.

T ON.

T.8 N.

T.8N,

T.7 N.

T.7N.

33 West from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907.

3277

Done at the City of Washington this 14th day of February , in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[ SEAL. ] seven, and of the Independence of the United States the

one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT of tHE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

February 15 , 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

Little Belt Forest

WHEREAS, it appears that the public good would be promoted Reserve, Mont.

by excluding certain lands from the Little Belt Forest Reserve, in

Preamble. Vol. 32, p. 2022.

the State of Montana, established by proclamation issued August Ante, pp. 3180,

sixteenth, nineteen hundred and two ;

3254.

Boundaries modi-

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United filed.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act Vol. 30, p. 36.

of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the boundaries of the aforesaid Little Belt Forest Reserve

are hereby changed to exclude therefrom the said lands, and that the

boundaries are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursu-

ant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent :

Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant

continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

Coal lands.

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation , however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to

protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing,

which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to

the creation of a permanent reservation . Excluded lands re-
The lands hereby excluded from the reserve and restored to the stored to public dopublic domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but main.
shall not be subject to entry, filing, or selection until after ninety

day's notice by such publication as the Secretary of the Interior inay prescribe.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 15th day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and

[SEAL. ] seven, and of the independence of the United States the

one hundred and thirty- first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3278

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907.

March 1, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Tolyabe Forest Reserve, Nev.

WHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Nevada, which are

Preamble.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-

poses,," " That the President of the United States may, from time

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by

public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations

and the limits thereof " ;

Forest reserve,

Nevada.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Nevada, shown as the Toiyabe Forest Reserve

on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Land excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make

entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not

Coal lands.

continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues
in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation , however, any land within the boundary herein described , which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation

Reserved settlement.

does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selec-
tion, entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain
of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first:

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

TOIYABE FOREST RESERVE

T19N.

NEVADA MT DIABLO MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE

CoFmOpRiESlTedSiEnRpVaIrCtE fUrSomDEPPubTliOcFALGaRnIdCUSLurTvUeRyEs

1907

TIGN

- FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

T:17N

TIGN

TISN

TIAN

TIN

T.12 N.

T.IN.

TION.

TON.

TON

FL3BE

P.37E

R38E

R39E R.40E

R41E

R 42E

R43E R.44E RASE

LONGITUDE WEST FROM WASHINGTON 40

GLENWOOD FOREST RESERVE ,

UTAH .

R. 2W.

SALT LAKE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE,

1907. FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

R. 3 W.

R. 1 W. T, 24 S.

T. 25 S. 5th Standard Parallel South

T. 26 S. R3W.i
R. 2 W.
T. 27 S. R. 3W,

T. 28 S.

T. 29 S

R.1 W.

T. 30 S.

6th Standard Parallel

R. 3W

R. 2 %W.

South! R. 2 W

35 West from Washington

"320 GL A

R.18 W.

BIG BURROS FOREST RESERVE , NEW MEXICO .
NEW MEXICO PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE. FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE, 1906. Forest Reserve Boundary.

R.17 W.

R.16 W.

DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED FEBRUARY 6, 1907.

T.17S.

R. 15 W.

R.14 W.

T.18 S.

T.19 S.

T 20 S.

T. 21 S T. 22 S:

Longitude 31°30 West from Washington.

3278

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907.

March 1 , 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Tolyabe Forest

Reserve, Nev.

WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Nevada, which are

Preamble.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one ,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur-

poses," " That the President of the United States may, from time

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in. part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations

and the limits thereof ";

Forest reserve, Nevada.

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Nevada , shown as the Toiyabe Forest Reserve

on the diagram forming a part hereof ;

Land excepted.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make

entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not

Coal lands.

continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues
in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has

been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation

Reserved settlement.

does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first:

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Secretary of State.

TOIYABE FOREST RESERVE

TION.

NEVADA NTDIABLO MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE

CoFmOpRiElSTedSiEnRpVaIrCtE fUrSomDEPPubTliOcFALGaRnIdCUSLuTrvUeRyEs

1907

TION

--FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

TI7N

T16 N

TISN

TIAN. T13N

T.12 N.

T.IN.

T.ION.

TON.

TON

R36E

R37E

R38E

R.39E R.40 E

R41E

R 42E R43E R.44E R45E

LONGITUDE WEST FROM WASHINGTON 40

T9N 2nd Standar Parelic North
T8N

T.7N

WASHINGTON

T.6N.

OREGON

BOUNDARY LINE

R.36 E.

TSN R.37E T4N.

Ist Standard Parallel North

R.38

39

40 

42

R43E R44E

T3N 7771
T2N.
TIN
TIS.

WENAHA FOREST RESERVE WASHINGTON AND OREGON
WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN AND BASE FOREST SCEORMVPIICLEED UFSR.ODMEPGT.LOOF APGLRAITCSULTURE
1907 FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
CDIAGRAM FORMING APART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 19073

T2S 4 WEST FROM WASHINGTON

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3279

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 1 , 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the Wenaha

Forest

Reserve,

in the

States

of

Oregon

Wenaha Forest Reserve, Oreg. and

and Washington, was established by proclamation dated May twelfth, wash.

nineteen hundred and five ;

Preamble.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by Ante, p. 3010. adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

Oregon, which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved
June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An Act

Vol. 30, p . 36.

Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby author-

ized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may

hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modi-

fication may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of suc"9h

reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve

Boundariesen-

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act of Congress do proclaim that the aforesaid Wenaha Forest Re serve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands , and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram

forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Lands excepted.

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reserva-

tion for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply ttoo any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ;
not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been with-

Coal lands.

drawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not

vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these

exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection,

entry, or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of

record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation.

Warning is hereby given to

all

persons

not to

make

settlement

upon

Reserved settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed . Done at the City of Washington this 1st of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President.

ELIHU ROOT

from

Secretary of State.

FRULARATIONS THR

AFROLA

I

Whe VIS KUINGI

AR STOICEA

Hd He pubir

.C

I'

TV

T

Par
CEL T 50 2

FIL 3 CLE
DEU

I    
T D JISTA
7
T 3TH TEHISIGALA #

2. SIT
ETT
JU

SLT a t

1

.COL  

2

C CA
 T

  C
T

TT

R12 W

RIW

RIOW

R9W

R.13W T325

T.325 ROW

7335 T345
T355

T.33S SISKIYOU
FOREST RESERVE
OREGON T.345 WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN
FOREST SERVICE U.S.DEPT OFAGRICULTURE 1907
FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
T. 35S

T36S T.36 S.

7375 T.375

T385

T38S

T39S T395

T 405
T415 R12 W

T405

GON

T.415

R.IIW.

RIOW

R9W

R8W

R.7W

R.6W

R.5W

CALIFORNIA

47 LONGITUDE WEST FROM WASHINGTON

1

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -40

RISW RISW R17W RISW RISW RAW R13W RIZW RIW RIOW ROW R&W R7W ROW

MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE

73N

PORT AND ION OHBGEFOLL ATUENDA FORES RY OREF T SERVES

T2N

TIN

TIS

725

44

725N

T4S

TSS

723N

722 N

775

T21N

TOG

TZON

798

TION

TIOS

RAW RIEW RIW RIOW

TION

THIS

717N

T125

TIGN

THO

TISN
R23E R24E R25E R26E R27E TIN

T145 ROW R7W R6W

TI3N

BIG HOLE FOREST RESERVE
MONATNDANA FOREST SERVICEIUDSADEHPOT. OF AGRICULTURE
1904 Comped from GLOPlats
FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
EDIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 1, 1907.3

TIZN TIIN TION T9N
TEN R28E R29E R30E R31E R32E R33E R34E
36 West from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3281

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 1 , 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the

Big

Hole

Forest

Reserve ,

in the

State

of Mon-

Big Hole Forest Reserve, Mont, and

tana, was established by proclamation dated November fifth , nineteen IdaPhroe.amble.

hundred nd six ;

Ante, p. 3254.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of Idaho, which are in part covered with timber ;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled, "An Act Making

Vol. 30, p. 36.

appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized

at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may here-

after be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modifica-

tion may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve,

or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve "; Boundaries en-
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act

of Congress do proclaim that the aforesaid Big Hole Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands

which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses

is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to

apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or

claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, fil-

ing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-
ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to

Coal lands.

protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any

such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which

has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the

creation of a permanent reservation .

Reserved

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

from

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven , and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3280

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 1 , 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Siskiyou Forest

Reserve, Oreg.

WHEREAS , the Siskiyou Forest Reserve, in the State of Oregon,

l'reamble. A te, p. 3239.

was established by proclamation dated October fifth, nineteen hundred and six ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State

Vol. 30, p. 36.

of Oregon, which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved

June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven , entitled , "An Act

Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and

ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby

authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has

been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and

by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary

lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating

such reserve " ;

Boundaries en-

larged.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said

act of Congress do proclaim that the aforesaid Siskiyou Forest Re-

serve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that

the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not

Coal lands.

continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues
in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described , which

Reserved ettlement.

has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation
does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selec-
tion , entry, or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain
of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation . from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven , and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty- first .
By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

R12 W

RIW

RIOW

R9W

R13W T325

T. 32S R.8W

7335 T345
T355

T.33S SISKIYOU
FOREST RESERVE
OREGON T.345 WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN
FOREST SERVICE U.S.DEPT OFAGRICULTURE 1907
FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
T.353

T365 T.36 S.

T375 T.37S

T385

T38S

5

T395 T395

T 405
T415 R12 W

T.40S

OR

T.415

R.IIW

RIOW

R9W

R8W

R.7W

R.6W

R.5W

CALIFORNIA

47 LONGITUDE WEST FROM WASHINGTON

1 VOL XXXIV, PT 3--40

PORT AND ION OBHFELL GOATUENDA FORES RY oRrE T SERVES rs

RISW RIBW R17W RI6W RISW RI4W R13W R12W RIW RIOW ROW R&W R7W R6W MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE
T3N
T2N
TIN
TIS
T25

725N T4
TR4M T5S
T23 N T6S
T22N

T2IN

T20N
TION RIW RIZW RIW RIOW
TION
T17N
TIGN
TISN R2BE R24E R25E R26E R27E THAN

798 TIOS THIS T125 THO T145 ROW R7W ROW

TIN

BIG HOLE FOREST RESERVE
MONATNDANA FOREST SCRVICEIUDS ADEHPTOOF AGRICULTURE
1306 Camped from G.L.Q.Plats
FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
SDIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 1, 1907.3

TIZN TIIN TION TON
 R28E R29E R30E R312 R32L R33E R348
36 West fromWashington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3281

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 1 , 1907,

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS,

the

Big

Hole

Forest

Reserve,

in the

State

of Mon-

Big Hole Forest Reserve, Mont. and

tana, was established by proclamation dated November fifth , nineteen IdaPhroe.amble.

hundred nd six ;

Ante, p. 3254.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

Idaho, which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June
fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled , "An Act Making

Vol. 30, p. 36.

appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized

at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modifica-

tion may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve,

or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ; Boundaries en-
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United larged.
States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act

of Congress do proclaim that the aforesaid Big Hole Forest Reserve

is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry

or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reserva-

tion for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses

is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to

apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, fil-

ing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-
ing from the force and effect of this proclamation , however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to

Coal lands.

protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any

such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which

has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the

creation of a permanent reservation.

Reserved

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President :

ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3282

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 1, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Uncom pa hgre WHEREAS, the Uncompahgre Forest Reserve, in the State of
FCorleos.t Reserve, Colorado, was established by proclamation dated June fourteenth, Preamble. Ante, p. 3109. nineteen hundred and five ;
And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted
by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

Vol. 30, p. 36.

Colorado, which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June

fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An Act Mak-

ing appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for

the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby author-

ized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may

hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modi-

fication may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such

Boundaries en- reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ;

larged.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said

Lands excepted.

act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Uncompahgre Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses

is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue

Coal lands.

to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described , which has been

Reserved settlement.

withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE Roosevelt

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

TISS

Ibnew

NOW

TSIN

RMW

RISW

TN50 RIZW

7N49

38° 30

RFUEONSRCEORSMVTPEAGRE

COLORADO

MPABNERANERIXSDWINEDCIOAPNAL MABSPEIRANRXISDITNEDHCIAPNAL

199

ASO-UDFEGOFSRPVIETICSCUTELTURE

B-ROEFUSONERDREAVRSEYT

(DFAPOAFIRORAOTGCMRLIANMGATION DM1,19A0TR7EC3DH

TÊN RIW

RIOW T47N

T4ON

T45N

T44N Wf31aressohtmington

R3W R2W RIW RIE R2E

TI4N R3E

T13N

R4E

T 12N

TIIN

TION

TON

RSE.

TON

T7N



TEN

BIG BELT FOREST RESERVE 
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE FOREST SERVICE U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE 1907
FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
(DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 1, 19073

R72 TSN TAN
T3N T2 N  TIS

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3283

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 1, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the

Big

Belt

Forest

Reserve,

in

the

State

of

Mon-

Big Belt Forest Reserve, Mont.

tana, was established by proclamation dated October third , nineteen Preamble.

hundred and five ;

Ante, p. 3151.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

Montana, which are in part covered with timber, and by excluding

therefrom certain lands ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved Vol. 30, p. 36.

June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses. of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninetyeight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such"9 reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ;
Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Boundaries modi-

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said fied. act of Congress, do proclaim that the boundaries of the aforesaid

Big Belt Forest Reserve are hereby further changed, and that they are now as shown on a diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

Lands excepted.

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by

any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United

States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been

made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to

make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting

all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or

reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for

forest uses is inconsistent': Provided, that these exceptions shall not

continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman,

settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the

entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or with-

drawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ;
Coal lands. not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however,

any land within the boundary herein described, which has been with-

drawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate

any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions

shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing,

which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to

the creation of a permanent reservation. Restored lands
The lands which are not embraced within any other withdrawal, open to settlement.
reservation, or appropriation and which are hereby excluded from
the reserve and restored to the public domain shall be open to settle-

ment from the date hereof, but shall not be subject to entry, filing,

or selection until after ninety days ' notice by such publication as

the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.

Reserved from

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement settlement.

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven , and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

3284

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 1 , 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Imnaha Forest

Reserve, Oreg.

WHEREAS , the Wallowa Forest Reserve and the Chesnimnus

Preamble.

Forest Reserve, in the State of Oregon, have been heretofore estab-

30A2n2t. e, pp. 3004, lished by proclamations, under the provisions of the act of March

Vol. 26, p. 1103. third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal

timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ;"

And whereas, it appears desirable that the area embraced in said

forest reserves , with certain additions thereto, in the State of Oregon, should be included in one reserve and be distinguished by one name ;

and it appears that the public lands in the State of Oregon, which
are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and that
the public good would be promoted by setting apart the same as a
public reservation ; Imnaha Forest Reserve, Oreg., es- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United otfabtlhieshWeadllionwaplaancde States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of Chesnimnus forest Congress, approved June fourth , eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, reserves. Vol. 30, p. 36. entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of
the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen.
hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that
the proclamations heretofore issued respecting said forest reserves are
hereby superseded , and the Imnaha Forest Reserve is hereby estab-
lished in place thereof, with boundaries as shown on the diagram
forming a part hereof; Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired, and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is

inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to

Coal lands.

apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not ex-

cepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary , herein described , which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not

vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record

Reserved settlement.

from subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. Warning is hereby, given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation . IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and

[ SEAL . ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

R40 E R41E R42 E R43E R44E R45E R46E R47E R48E R49E R50E R5IE
T6 N
TSN IST. Std . Par. N
T4N
T3N
T2N
TIN Base Line
TIS
T25
T3S
T4S
T5S IST. Std. Par. S.
T6S
T7S
T8 S
IMNAHA FOREST RESERVE OREGON
WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN AND BASE FOREST SERVICE . U.S.DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE
1907 FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY (DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION
DATED MARCH 1, 1907.)

AKE

:



ROOW WYORM8I9NWG R88W RB8O7UNWDARY R86W R85W R84W R83W R82W LINE T12 N
TIIN

TION

TON

78N 77N 

'°340

PARK RANGE FOREST RESERVE
COLORADO
FOREST SERVICE U.S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE 1907
6TH PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN Forest Reserve Boundary

TSN 74N T3N T2N

TIN 30° WEST FROM WASHINGTON

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3285

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 1, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

Park Range ForWHEREAS, the Park Range Forest Reserve, in the State of Col- est Reserve, Colo.

orado, was established by proclamation dated June twelfth, nineteen Preamble.

hundred and five ;

Ante, p. 3079.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of Colorado, which are in part covered with timber, and by excluding therefrom certain lands ;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled , "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

Vol. 30, p. 36.

fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized

at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may

hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modi-

fication may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of s9u9ch reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve ;

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United Boundaries modifled.

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the said

act of Congress, do proclaim that the boundaries of the aforesaid

Park Range Forest Reserve are hereby further changed , and that they are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which

at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not continue to apply

to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

Coal lands.

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to

the creation of a permanent reservation. Restored lands
The lands which are not embraced in any other withdrawal, reser-
vation, or appropriation and which are hereby excluded from the open to settlement.

reserve and restored to the public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but shall not be subject to entry, filing, or selec-
tion until after ninety days' notice by such publication as the Secre-
tary of the Interior may prescribe. Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon Reserved settlement.
the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

from

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3286

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 1, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Holy Cross For-

est Reserve, Colo.

WHEREAS , the Holy Cross Forest Reserve, in the State of Colo-

Preamble.

rado, was established by proclamation dated August twenty-fifth,

Ante, p. 3144.

nineteen hundred and five ;

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of Colorado, which are in part covered with timber ;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, entitled , "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes ", that " The President is hereby

Boundaries larged.

authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ; en- Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Holy Cross Forest

Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram

Lands excepted.

forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is

Coal lands.

inconsistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not ex-

cepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been with-

Reserved settlement.

drawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not
vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these
exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection ,
entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

WHITE RIVER FOBROEUSNTDRAERSYELRIVNEE
R87 67W

R33W Tri Con Line Seth



T73 BATTLEMENT

BOUNDARY LINE

BORUEFNSODMERLAERIRSVNYEAT

TIOS

THIS

GUNNISON FOREST

RESERVE

BOUNDARY

LINE

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-41

THE HOLY CROSS
FOREST RESERVE
COLORADO CR6ETSHT SPERRIVNICCIEPAULSMEDREIPDTI.AONFAANGDRIBCAULSTEURE
1807 FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

R 64W T56N

R 63 W

R 62 W

TSS N T54N TS3 N

BEAR LODGE FOREST RESERVE WYOMING!
POREST SERVICE US DEPT OF AGRICULTURE 1907
on PRIN MERIDIAN & BASE
Forest Reserve Boundary
(DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 1, 19073

R 61 W

R 60 W

.LCAOWRENCE

TS2 N

HBILLLASCK FROERBESRT WYOMING S.DAKOTA

TEIN

T SON

T 49N
CHC C0 . WESTON CO.
27 WestfromWashing

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3287

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 1, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

Bear Lodge ForWHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Wyoming, which are est Reserve, Wyo. hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.
that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as
a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103.
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,.
entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other pur-
poses," " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory, having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part
covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or
not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ":
Forest Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Wyoming.

Reserve,

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Pub-

lic Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Wyoming, shown as the Bear Lodge Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ;

1 Lands excepted.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or

filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at

this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent :

Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any
particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this
reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the Coal lands.
force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the
boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land
withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation .
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon setRtelseemrevnetd. from the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and 'caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3288

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 1, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Colville Forest Reserve, Wash.

WHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Washington, which

Preamble.

are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it

appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart

said lands as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety -one, entitled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,,"" " That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public

proclamation , declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof " ;

Forest reserve, Washington.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Washington, shown as the Colville Forest Re-

serve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Lands excepted. Excepting from, the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or

filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at

this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent :

Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any

Coal lands.

particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation , however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to protect the

coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land

withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which has been

allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a diAalnlso. tments to In permanent reservation ; and provided further, that nothing herein
shall operate to interfere with or terminate the right of the Department of the Interior, under existing laws, to allot to individual

Indians any of the land hereby reserved.

Reserved from settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Secretary of State.

RE. 27

RE..28 RE.29

RE. 30

INTERNATIOBNOAUNDARY

N4T..0

N3T..9

RIVER

NT3..8

NT3..7

 

T3N..6 TN.35

RE..3312

RE.33

RE. 34

ER. 356

RE.37

R3E..8

RE..39

RE..40

R E V I R

FCROOELRSVEISRLTVLEE
WASHINGTON
WMABEANIRSDLIELDAIAMNETTE FSSDO,WA..EFOEGRRPRVETIISCCTUELTURE
1907 FRBOERSUENSRDTVAERY

L1'WFGOR6ENEOSGEMTINTWUIDCEH



f319,4J!

$

R69W

LAS ANIMAS FOREST RESERVE

COLORADO AND NEW MEXICO

SIXTH PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE

FOREST SERVICE US DEPT OFAGRICULTURE

1907

(DIAGRAM

Forest FORMING

Reserve A PART OF

BPoRuOnCdLaArMyATION

DATED MARCH 1, 19073

R68W

R67W

R66W

R65W

R64W T29S

T30S

731S

SANGRE CRISTO GRANT

T325

30

T335

T345 NDA GRANT

COLORADO NEW MEXICO
28 Westfrom Washington

9355 UNDARY LINE

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3289

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 1, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the

public

lands

in the

State

of

Colorado

and

the

Las Animas Forest Reserve, Colo.

Territory of New Mexico, which are hereinafter indicated, are in anPdreN.amMbleex..

part covered with timber, and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled , "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value-

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ; " Forest reserve,
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Colorado and New
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section Mexico.

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Colorado and the Territory of New Mexico, shown as the Las Animas Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a

part hereof ;
Lands excepted. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reserva-

tion for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue-

to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, · filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described , which has

Coal lands.

been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation

does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that

these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selec-

tion, entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain

of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation .

Reserved

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

from

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 1st day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[SEAL . ]

the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
TABODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3290

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Little Rockies Forest Reserve , WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Montana, which are

Mont. Preamble.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ;

Vol. 26, p. 1103. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled , "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other pur99 66
poses, That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall , by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations

Forest Montana.

and the limits thereof "; reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Little Rockies Forest

Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Lands excepted. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all fands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make .

entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is

inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to

Coal Jands.

apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been with-

Reserved settlement.

drawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these ex-
ceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record
subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

{SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

RFRLIOOETCRSTKELISERETVS E
MONTANA
AMPBREANOIRSDNNIETCDIAIPNAALN ADSFOU.EGOFSRPR.VITEICSCUTELTURE 1906 SPpCLfinuaorabrmonltpvmdiieclyesd BRFEOSRUENRSDVTAERY
PFCOADROAFIORACTMGLIRANAMGMATION DM2,19A0TR7EC3DH
T2N..6
BFOERLTKNAP

BOUNDARY LINE

DI IN AN

RE..23 RE..24

R

NT2..5

ESERVA

TION

TN2..4

RE..25

R2E.6

WLfroaeonssmghtitnugdteon31'°15

1

R.TE Rae R.9E ROE RIIE. RIZE RBE RIE. RISE RISE T.25 T.3S

T.4S

RITE RIBE RI9E. R.20E

T5S

rst Standard Parallel South

T.65

T7S

TBS

MONTANA

T95

WYOMING

T.58N

T57N

T.56 N

T. 55 N
T.54 N YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK
T.53 N

T.52 N

T.51 N.

T.50 N

149N

T.48N T47N

RAE. RAZE. RASE. RAADRESE44 TEN. TSN T4N.

T46N

R17 R16WRIIS RIW ROW RIZWRIU/W RION RIOSWR108W R107WR10 R105W R10WR0E3W R102W T45N

SERVA

T44N

TION

T43N

T43N

T42N

ORSRIHVOESRHONE

TEN

TAIN

T.IN

T40N

T.IS.

T39N

T.25

T38N

T37N

WIND

T.36N. T.35N.

T.34N.
T.33 N. RIITW RINCHSW RIKIN RIBW T.32.N.. R.IOW,R109W. ROW

BOUNDARY LINE T.33 N.
T32 N

T.31N.

RJ06W

T.31 N.

T.30N

RIOSW

T.30 N

T.29 N

R104W R03N

R.99W T.29N

T.28N. T.27 N. T.26 N T.25N
CDIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 2, 19073

RIDEW.RADIW. RIOO
YELLOWSTONE FOREST RESERVE
WYOMING, MONTANA AND IDAHO SIXTH PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE BOISE PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE
COMPILED FROM GLO PLATS FOREST SERVICE US19D0E6PT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

110°West from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3291

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS , the Yellowstone Forest Reserve, in the State of Wyoming, was established by proclamation dated March thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, under the name of the Yellowstone Park Timberland Reserve, and the boundaries thereof have been subsequently changed to include additional lands in the States of Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho, and also to exclude from the reserve certain lands in the States of Wyoming and Montana ;

Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyo.,
MoPnrte.,amabnlde. Idaho. Vol. 26, p. 1565. Vol . 27, p. 989. Vol. 32, pp. 1999,
2006, 2030. Vol. 33, p. 2344. Ante, p. 3049.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands in the States

of Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho, which are in part covered with timber, and by excluding therefrom certain lands in the States of Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming ;
Boundaries modiNow, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United fied.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of Vol. 30, p. 36.
Congress, approved June fourth , eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the aforesaid Yellowstone Forest Reserve is hereby further enlarged
to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the

reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this die are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any

Coal lands.

such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry, or filing,

which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to

the creation of a permanent reservation.

The

lands

excluded

from

the

reserve

not

otherwise

withdrawn

or

Restored lands open to settlement.

reserved are hereby restored to the public domain, and shall be open

to settlement from the date hereof, but shall not be subject to entry,

filing, or selection until after ninety day's notice by such publication
as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe. Reserved
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement.
the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

from

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State. VOL XXXIV, PT 3--42

3292

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Port Neuf Forest WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Idaho, which are Reserve, Idaho.

Preamble.

hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands
as a public reservation ; Vol. 26, p. 1103.
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes,,"' " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial

Forest Idaho.

value or not , as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof "; reserve,
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Idaho, shown as the Port Neuf Forest Re-

Lands excepted.

serve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not continue to

Coal lands.

apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been

withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these

exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection,

Reserved settlement.

entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of
from record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation . Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

R.36 E.

R.37 E.

R.38 E.

BOUNDARY LINE FORT HALL INDIAN RESERVATION T.63.

R.39 E.

First Stand. Par. South

T.7 S.

T. 8 S.

'°4320

T9S.
PORT NEUF FOREST RESERVE IDAHO
BOISE MERIDIAN AND BASE FOREST SERVICE, US DEPT OF AGRICULTURE
1907 FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
35 West from Washington

1

STATE INDI
AN RESE RVAT ION

PALOUSE FOREST RESERVE IDAHO
BOISE BASE AND MERIDIAN FOREST SERVICE U.S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE
1906 Forest Reserve Boundary
T45N

KA LÈ NE

T44N

T43N

UR COE

R16W R5W

R4W

40 Longitude West from Washington

R3W

R2W

T42N
T4IN RIW

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3293

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

Palouse Forest WHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Idaho, which are Reserve, Idaho.
hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and it appears l'reamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety- one,

entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," That the President of the United States may, from ime

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having

public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly

or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of com-

mercial value or not , as public reservations , and the President shall ,

by public proclamation , declare the establishment of such reserva-
tions and the limits thereof "; Forest
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Idaho.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

reserve,

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress , do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Idaho, shown as the Palouse Forest Reserve on

the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Lands excepted. Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or

filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which

at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply

to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler , or

claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry,

filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however,

Coal lands.

any land within the boundary herein described , which has been

withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not

vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry

or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record

subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. Reserved
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement.
the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

from

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

3294

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Weiser Forest Re-

serve, Idaho.

WHEREAS , the Weiser Forest Reserve, in the State of Idaho , was

Preamble .

established by proclamation dated May twenty-fifth, nineteen hun-

31A99nt. e, pp. 3055, dred and five, and was subsequently enlarged by proclamation dated

May tenth, nineteen hundred and six ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, in the State

of Idaho, which are in part covered with timber, and by excluding

therefrom certain lands ;

Boundaries modi-

filed.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Vol. 30, p. 36. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act

of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil ex-

penses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the boundaries of the aforesaid Weiser Forest Reserve are

Lands excepted.

hereby further changed, and that they are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or

filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman , settler, or claim-

Coal lands.

ant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn

to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any 1 such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the

creation of a permanent reservation. Restored lands The lands which are not embraced in any other withdrawal, res-

open to settlement. ervation, or appropriation and which are hereby excluded from

the reserve and restored to the public domain shall be open to settlement from the date hereof, but shall not be subject to entry, filing,

or selection until after ninety days' notice by such publication as

Reserved settlement.

the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe. from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed. Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[ SEAL. ]

the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

45 OREGON NAKE IV ER

RIW RIE T27N

T26N

T25N

T24N

T23N

T22N TEIN

T20N

T19N

T18 N TI7N

R3W R2W RIW R4W R6W R5W

T16 N T15N T14N T13N

TI2N

RIE WEISER FOREST RESERVE

TIIN

IDAHO

TION

FOREST SERVICE U.S. DEPT OF AGRICULTURE

1907

T9N

Compiled from G.L.O. plats

Forest Reserve Boundary

R2E R3E

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 2, 19073

Boise Meridian and Base Line

39°30'Longitude W. from Washington

-

RIE

R3E

TGON 33,W RW R31W
TEN
T 50N

YSSN

IDANO IDAMO

CABINET FOREST RESERVE IDAHO AND MONTANA
BOSE MERIDIAN BASE MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIANANDBASE FOREST SERVICE US1D8E0P7T OF AGRICULTURE FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
EDIAGRAM FDOARTMEIDNGMAARPCAHRT2,O1F90P7R3OCLAMATION .
39 WEST FROM WASHINGTON

RIFENLSDAELTRAHNVEATAIDON

ROW R25W R2 W
 T28 N T27 N T26 N 725N T24 N T23 N T22 N YEN TZON TON

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907.

3295

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS , the public lands in the States of Montana and Idaho, ResCearbvine,etMonFt.orIensdt

which are hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, IdaPhroe.amble. and it appears that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty-four of the Act of Vol. 26, p. 1103.
Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,
entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes,"" That the President of the United States may, from time to
time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ";

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Forest Reserve, Montana and

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section Idaho.

twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a

Public Reservation , for the use and benefit of the people, all the

tracts of land, in the States of Montana and Idaho, shown as the Cabinet Forest Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or

filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at

this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any

use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent :

Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any

particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant

continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not ex-

Coal lands.

cepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been with-

drawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not

vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these ex-

ceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection ,

entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of
record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. Reserved
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement settlement.
upon the lands reserved by this proclamation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[ SEAL . ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3296

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Rainier Forest

Reserve, Wash.

WHEREAS , The Mt. Rainier Forest Reserve, in the State of

Preamble .

Vol. 29, p. 896. Washington, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-

second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of

Vol. 30, p. 36. Washington, which are in part covered with timber ; And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved

June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An Act

Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-

eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby au-

thorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or

may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such

modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of

such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such

reserve " ;

Boundaries en-

larged.

Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the said

act of Congress , do proclaim that the aforesaid Mt. Rainier Forest

Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and

Lands excepted.

that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

Coal lands.

sistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing or settlement was made , or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn

to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any

such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which

has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the

creation of a permanent reservation .

Reserved from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

Name changed.

This reservation shall be known hereafter as the Rainier Forest

Reserve.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven , and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty -first. THEODORE Roosevelt
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

RAINIER FOREST RESERVE
WASHINGTON FOREST SERVICE US DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE
.906 Compiled from GLO plats Willamet Meridian and Base Line
Forest Reserve Boundary
(DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 2, 1907.3

R.7L RBL. R.SC. R.10E. R.IIC. R.12E RIJE R.14E R.ISC. R.16E T.20 N. T.19 N. T.18 N

T.17 N. MT. RAINIER

T16 N. R.2L. R.3 E R4E R.SE R.GE. NATIONAL PARK

T IS N. IN

T.14 N.

T.13 N.

T 12 N.

T.IIN.

TION.

T.ON.

T.8 N

T.7 N.

T.6N.

T.SN.

T.AN.

T3N
OLUMBIA R.3 C R.6E. R.SE R.GE. R.7E. R.7C. R.BE. R.9E. R.IOE RIIE R.12E

45" West from Washington

VOL XXXIV, PT 343

(DIAGRAM FORMING APART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 8, 19073
T41 N740 N

WASHINGTON FOREST RESERVE WILLAMEWTTAESHMIERNIGDITAONNAND BASE
FOREST SERVICE U1S807DEPT OF AGRICULTURE FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY
BOUNDARY LINE

739

738N

737N
ROC T36N
T35 N

T34N

733N

R24E R.25E

R76 T30N T20N
T28N TEN
TEON

R.23E. R22E R21E

T25N

T24N

723N

R.20E

TEEN

RBE 

TRON

R135 R14E RISE RIGE

RSE RIDE RITE RIZE"

RIVE RIBE RIDE

44 W. from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907.

3297

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

The

Washington

Forest

Reserve,

in the

State

of Washington Forest Reserve, Wash.

Washington, was established by proclamation dated February twenty- Preamble.

Vol. 29, p. 904.

second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, and the boundaries Vol. 32, p. 1969.

thereof were subsequently changed by proclamations dated April Ante, p. 3088.

third, nineteen hundred and one, and June twelfth, nineteen hundred

and five ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by further excluding lands from the said forest reserve, and by in-

cluding therein certain additional lands, in the State of Washing-
ton, which are in part covered with timber ; Boundaries modi-
Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United fied. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act Vol. 30, p. 36.
of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the boundaries of the aforesaid Washington Forest Re-

serve are hereby further changed, and that they are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses

is inconsistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation , however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been

Coal lands.

withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record

subject to the creation of a permanent reservation.

Restored lands

The lands which are not embraced in any other withdrawal, reserva- open to settlement.

tion, or appropriation and which are hereby excluded from the reserve

and restored to the public domain shall be open to settlement from

the date hereof, but shall not be subject to entry, filing, or selection

until after ninety days' notice by such publication as the Secretary

of the Interior may prescribe.

Warning is

hereby given to

all

persons

not to

Reserved make settlement settlement.

from

upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[ SEAL. ]

the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President ; ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3298

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Ashland Forest

Reserve, Oreg.

WHEREAS, the Ashland Forest Reserve, in the State of Oregon,

Preamble. Vol. 28, p. 1243. was established by proclamation dated September twenty-eighth,

Ante, p. 8196. eighteen hundred and ninety-three, and was subsequently enlarged

by proclamation dated Apríl twenty- fourth, nineteen hundred and

SIX ; And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted
by further enlarging the said forest reserve to include certain ad-

ditional lands, in the State of Oregon, which are in part covered with timber ; Boundaries fur- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United ther enlarged. Vol. 30, p. 36. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the aforesaid Ashland Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged J to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the

Lands excepted

reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part thereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired; and also excepting all lands which

at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent: Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claim-

Coal lands.

ant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn

to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any

such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which

Reserved settlement.

has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand andk caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

By the President.: ELIHU ROOT

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Secretary of State.

A FROESRSHEELSRATVNED

OREGON

BWAMAENISRDLIELDAIAMNETTE

1907

SDAFU.EGEOSPRRR.TIVE.CISOUCFLTETURE

BRFOEUSRNEDRSAVTREY

1MD2, 9AA0T7R.EC3DH

OPFDARIFAOAORTGCMRLIANMGATION

WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN

T. .38S

TS..39

T4S..0

TS.41

OREGON

CALIFORNIA

R. .4W

RW..3

WR2.

RW..I

R.IE

5°4Wfar2.sohmington

Wal

47°West from Washington

COQUILLE FOREST RESERVE
OREGON FOREST SERVICE , U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
1907 Compiled from G.L.O.plats
Forest Reserve Boundary

R15 W

[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 2, 1907)
R14 W R13W

T29 S

COOS Co. CURRY

T30S

T31S

AN CE O

T32 S

T333

PACIFIC

T345

T35S T365

T37S

CURRY

T388 T399 Williamette Meridian , and Base Line

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907.

3299

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the

public

lands

in

the

State

of

Oregon ,

which

are

Coquille Forest Reserve, Qreg.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one,

entitled , "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes ,"' " That the President of the United States may, from time to

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public
proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt , President of the United OrFeorest gon. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

Reserve,

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land in the State of Oregon, shown as the Coquille Forest Reserve on

the diagram forming a part hereof; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted.

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or

filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which

at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply. to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or, claimant contínues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

Coal lands.

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation , however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to

protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any

such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing,

which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation.
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon setRtelseemrevnetd. the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

frm

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3300

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907. ·

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Cascade Forest

Reserve, Oreg.

WHEREAS, the Cascade Forest Reserve, in the State of Oregon,

Preamble.

was established by proclamation dated September twenty- eighth,

Vol. 28, p. 1240.

Vol . 32, p. 1972. eighteen hundred and ninety-three, under the name of The Cascade

Ante, p. 3270. Range Forest Reserve, and the boundaries thereof have been subse-

quently changed to include additional lands in the State of Oregon, and also to exclude from the reserve certain lands ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by

further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, in the State
of Oregon, which are in part covered with timber ;. Boundaries fur- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United ther enlarged. Vol. 30, p. 36. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven, entitled , "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the aforesaid Cascade Forest Reserve is hereby further enlarged

to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the

Lands excepted.

reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which

at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply

to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry,

Coal lands.

filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not ex-

cepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been with-

I drawn to protect the coal therein, but this proclamation does not

vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record

Reserved settlement.

subject to the creation of a permanent reservation . from Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven , and of

[ SEAL. ] . the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

· THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

CASCADE FOREST RESERVE
OREGON WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN AND BASE
FOREST SERVICE US19D0E7PT OF AGRICULTURE CFoOmRpiElSeTdfRroEmSGELROVpElaBtOsUNDARY
EDIAGRAM FDOARTMEIDNGMAARPCAHRT8,O1F90P7R3OCLAMATION

R.7 R.6E.
R.SE

R4E

R.2E R.3E.

R2E.

T.2N TIN. T.IS. T.2 S.
T3S T4S
T.5S T.6S. R9E R.IOE T75 T.8S T.9 S. TIOS
TIIS T125 T.13 S. T.149. T.15 S. RTI.O1E6 S. T.17S T.18 S.

RIW RIE.
R3W R.2W RSW. RAW. R.3W. R2W.

T.19S
T.20S.
T.21S.
T.22 S.
T. 23S
T.24S RIDE. RIIE T.25 S. R.9E T.26 S.
T. 27 S.
T. 28 S. LINE T.29S. T.30S
T31 S.
T32 S R.7/2E R.7ET33 S.

T345 T.35 S RLLAANWAATHE LARE T365 T375 T 38 S T.39 S West from Washington 45°

1

UMPQUA FOREST RESERVE OREGON
FOREST SERVICE U.S.DEPARTMENTOF AGRICULTURE 1907
Compiled from G.L.O. plats Forest Reserve Boundary
[DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATIO DATED MARCH 2, 19073 R.IIW. R.10.W. R.gw
T.12 S.

T.13 S. T.14S. R.8W. T.15S. T.16S.

OCEAN

7.175. T.185.

°44

PACI FIC

T.19S. T.20S.

T.215.

T.223.

T.235.

R.13W. R.12W. R.IIW.

T.245. T.25 S.

T.26S.

T. 27S.

T.28 S. T.29S.

T.30S.
Willamette Meridian and Base line 47°Westfrom Washington 47°West from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3301

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the

public

lands

in

the

State

of

Oregon,

which

are

Umpqua Forest Reserve, Oreg.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands

as a public reservation ;
. And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Vol . 26, p. 1103.

Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," " That the President of the United States may, from time

to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forest, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value

or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public

proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the

limits thereof ";

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of the

United

Forest Oregon.

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section

reserve,

twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set.apart as a Public

Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of

land, in the State of Oregon, shown as the Umpqua Forest Reserve

on the diagram forming a part hereof ;

Lands excepted.

Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

Coal lands.

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to

protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any " such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing,

which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to

the creation of a permanent reservation.

Warning

is

hereby

given

to

all

persons

not

to

make

settlement

upon

Reserved settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

from

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first. THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

3302

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Blue Mountains Forest Reserve, WHEREAS , the Blue Mountains Forest Reserve and the Maury

Oreg. Preamble.

Mountain Forest Reserve, in the State of Oregon, have been hereto-

Vol. 33, p. 2331. fore established by proclamations, under the provisions of the act of

30A6n6t. e, pp. 3194, March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to

Vol. 26, p. 1103. repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes ;"

And whereas, it appears desirable that the areas embraced in said

forest reserves, with certain additions thereto, in the State of Oregon, should be included in one reserve and be distinguished by one name ;

and it appears that the public lands in the State of Oregon, which are

hereinafter indicated , are in part covered with timber, and that the

public good would be promoted by setting apart the same as a public

reservation ;
Consolidation of the Maury Moun- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

twaiitnh Fotrehset ReBsleruvee States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of

Mountains Forest Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven,

Reserve, Oreg. Vol. 30, p. 36.

entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses

of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen

hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that

the proclamations heretofore issued respecting said forest reserves are hereby superseded, and the Blue Mountains Forest Reserve is

Lands excepted.

hereby enlarged to include all of the said lands, with boundaries as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or

filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not continue to apply

Coal lands.

to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been with-

drawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not

vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record

subject to the creation of a permanent reservation.

Reserved from

settlement.

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT Secretary of State:

VOL XXXIV, PT 344 .

BRFMLEOUSRNEETRSAVTIENS

OREGON

SFDAUOEOGFSRPVTIEICSCUTELTURE

1907

T75

FBROERUSENSDRTAVREY 785

D12,M9A0TR7EC3DH

FEPAODORAFIROACMTGLIRANAMGMATION 795

TIOS

RITE RIBE R19E TIES

R20E RZIE

TIIS

R22E

R23E

T125 R24E R25E

T35 T145

R267E

R32908E

T15S

T165

7175

Ties

T185

T195

T208

RR343222E R3SE 725 T35 R367E 745 T55 T65
R38E
R39E

T125

R321E

R3343E

T105 TIIS
T125 7135 T145 TISS T165 7178 T185 R374685E

T215

7225

R3321E

T235 fW4*3° ra0.osmhington

MWielrliidaimaentte

MEDICINE BOW FOREST RESERVE

COLORADO AND WYOMING

T.20N.

FOR4ETSHT SPERRIVNICCIEPAUL3M.EDREIPDT.IAONF AANGRDICBUALSTEURE

1907

FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

T.19N.

CDIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION

DATED MARCH 2, 19073

T.18N.

T.17N.

4°1

T.16N . T.ISN. T.14N. T.13N..
R.82W. T.I2N. TIIN. TION. T.9N. T8N. T.7N. T.6N. T.5N. T.4N. T.3N T2M T.IN.
T.IS. T.25.
R.81W. R.BOW. R.79W. R.78W. R.77W. R.76W. R.75W R.74W. R.73W. R.72W. 29 Westfrom Washington

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907. ,

3303

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS ,

the

Medicine

Bow

Forest

Reserve,

in the

State

of Medicine Bow Forest Reserve,

Wyoming, was established by proclamation dated May twenty-second, ColPor.eaamnbdleW.yo. nineteen hundred and two, and the, boundaries thereof have been Vol. 32, pp. 2003,

subsequently changed to include additional lands in the States of 2015. Ante, p. 3039.
Wyoming and Colorado , and also to exclude from the reserve certain

lands ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, in the

States of Colorado and Wyoming, which are in part covered with

timber ;

Now, therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt ,

President

of the

United

Boundaries ther enlarged.

fur-

States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act Vol. 30, p. 36.

of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, " An Act Making appropriation for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the aforesaid Medicine Bow Forest Reserve is hereby

further enlarged to include, the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

Lands excepted .

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reserva-

tion for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue

to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not ex-

Coal lands.

cepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described , which has been withdrawn

to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the

creation of a permanent reservation.

Warning is hereby given to all

persons not to make settlement upon

Reserved settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

from

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3304

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Lewis and Clark Forest Reserve,

WHEREAS , the Lewis and Clark Forest Reserve, in the State

Mont. Preamble .

of Montana, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-

Vol. 29, p. 907. second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, under the name of the

Vol . 33, p. 2311 . Lewis and Clarke Forest Reserve, and the boundaries thereof were

subsequently changed by proclamation dated June ninth, nineteen hundred and three, to include additional lands, and also to exclude from the reserve certain lands ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, in the State

Boundaries fur- of Montana, which are in part covered with timber ;

ther enlarged .

Now , therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Vol. 30, p. 36. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act of

Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of

the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that

the aforesaid Lewis and Clark Forest Reserve is hereby further en-

larged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries

of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part
hereof ; Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or

filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at

this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any

use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent :

Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any

particular tract of land unless the entryman , settler, or claimant con-

Coal lands.

tinues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this
reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the

boundary herein described , which has been withdrawr to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land

Reserved settlement.

withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation. from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

By the President : FLIHU ROOT Secretary of State.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

35

BOUNDARLYINE

737N T36N T35N T34N T33N T3N2
TSIN TN20

LACFROELNRSAWDERISRKSTVE MONTANA
PO(DFARAIOFORACTGMLRIANMGATION OM2,19A0TR7EC3DH

W3fa7resohmtington

729N N725 N727 TN26 T2N5 TN24 2NT3 TN22 TZIN TN20 1NT9 TION TN17
TN16

OTTER FOREST RESERVE MONTANA 1
MONTANA PRINCIPAL MERIDIAN AND BASE FOREST SERVICE, US DEPT. OFAGRICULTURE
1907 FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY R.44 L.
R.43 E
R42E

ROSEBUD COUNT CUSTER LINE

R.45 E.

R.46 E.

R.47 L.

T.IN.

R.48 E

R49E

TIS

T2S.

T.33.

T43.

7.53. R49E
T.6S.

T.7.3.

TBS.

BOUNDARY LINE
LONGITUDE 29 WEST FROM WASHINGTON

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3305

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

Otter Forest ReWHEREAS, the public lands in the State of Montana, which are serve. Mont. hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears Preamble.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one , entitled, "An act to repeal timber- culture laws, and for other purposes," That the President of the United States may, from time to

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part

covered with timber or undergrowth, whether of commercial value
or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proc-
lamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and the limits thereof ";
Forest Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Montana.

reserve,

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty-four of the aforesaid act of Congress, do proclaim that there

are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Montana, shown as the Otter Forest Reserve on

the diagram forming a part hereof; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Lands excepted.

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses

is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue

to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ;
not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described , which has been

Coal lapis.

withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not

vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing , which has been allowed or permitted to remain of

record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation . Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon Reserved settlement.
the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

from

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of
[SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first . THEODORE ROOSEVELT
By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3306

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Olympic Forest

Reserve, Wash.

WHEREAS, the Olympic Forest Reserve, in the State of Wash-

Preamble. Vol. 29, p. 901.

ington, was established by proclamation dated February twenty-

Vol. 31, p. 1962. second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , and the boundaries there-

Vol. 32, p. 1981. of have been subsequently changed to exclude therefrom certain lands

and also to include additional lands in the State of Washington ;

And whereas it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, in the State

of Washington, which are in part covered with timber ;

Boundaries further enlarged.

Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United

Vol. 36, p. 36. States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act

of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil ex-

penses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth,

eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do pro-

claim that the aforesaid Olympic Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the

reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Lands excepted.
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands

which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any

lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pur-

suant to law, and the , statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands

which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reserva-

tion for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses

is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to

apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry,

Coal lands.

filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land

within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to

protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any

such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall

not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which

Reserved settlement.

has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creafrom tion of a permanent reservation.
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

OLYMPIC FOREST RESERVE

WASHINGTON

WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN AND BASE

FOREST SERVICE U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE 1907

R. 13 W. R. 12 W.

STRAITS

Forest Reserve Boundary

OF SAN JUAN DE

T.31 N.

FUCA

T.30 N. T29 N.

T.28 N.

T.27 N.

T. 26 N.

T. 25N.

T.24 N.

T.23 N.

QUINIULT

INDIAN RESERVE

T.22 N.

T.21 N. R. 12W. R. I W. R. 10W R.9 W. R.8 W. R.7W R. 6 W. R. 5 W. R.4 W. R.3 W. R.2 W.

T45N

744N T43

T42N

T4IN

R.BW 17W

RW..15

W

RW..

3W RIZW

T40N

T39N

T38N

T37N

TN36

RFMEOOSRNEETRSEVTEZUMA

T35N

COLORADO

PABMNREANEIRSDXWNIEICDCIOPAANL

1907

DSFOAUEGOFSRPRVITEICSCUELTTURE

734N

RBFEOSURENRDSVATERY

IRLUNEOTDSUEIETARHNVEATNION

PO(DFARAIFOORACTGMLRIANMGATION 1DM2, 9A0TR7EC3DH TBdWhoEaewSsnThington

-PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3307

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

Montezuma For-

WHEREAS, the Montezuma Forest Reserve, in the State of Colo- est Reserve, Colo.

rado, was established by proclamation dated June thirteenth , nineteen Preamble.

hundred and five ;

Ante, p. 3106.

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State of Colorado, which are in part covered with timber ;
And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

Vol. 30, p. 36.

fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve,

or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve " ; Now, therefore, I , Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United Boundaries enlarged.
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said

act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid Montezuma Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram

forming a part hereof; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection.duly of record in the proper United States

Lands excepted.

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired; and also excepting all lands which

at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

sistent : Provided , that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant

continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not except-

Coal lands.

ing from the force and effect of this proclamation , however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to
protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any
such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall
not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the
creation of a permanent reservation. Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon Reserved settlement.
the lands reserved by this proclamation .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

from

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and of

[ SEAL. ] the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--45

3308

PROCLAMATIONS , 1907.

March 2 , 1907.'

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

San Juan Forest Reserve, Colo.

WHEREAS , the San Juan Forest Reserve, in the State of Colo-

Preamble. Ante, p. 3070.

rado, was established by proclamation dated June third, nineteen hundred and five ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted by adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, within the State

of Colorado, which are in part covered with timber ;

Vol. 30, p. 36.

And whereas, it is provided by the Act of Congress, approved June

fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety- seven , entitled , "An Act Making

appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the

fiscal year ending June thirtieth , eighteen hundred and ninety-eight,

and for other purposes," that " The President is hereby authorized

Boundaries larged .

at any time to modify any Executive order that has been or may hereafter be made establishing any forest reserve, and by such modification may reduce the area or change the boundary lines of such reserve, or may vacate altogether any order creating such reserve "; en- Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by the said act of Congress, do proclaim that the aforesaid San Juan Forest Reserve is hereby enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that the

Lands excepted.

boundaries of the reserve are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which, at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is incon-

Coal lands.

sistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been with-

drawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not

vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry

Reserved settlement,

or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record
subject to the creation of a permanent reservation . from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon the lands reserved by this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven,

[SEAL . ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

Secretary of State

R.7W R6W R- 5W R.AW. R.3 W R. 2 W RIW RIE R2E

T.43 N. SAN JUAN FOREST RESERVE

T42 N.

COLORADO

NEWPMOREGXEITCSOERVPIRCIENCI&PADLEPMTEROFIDAIGARINCUALNTUDREBASE

FOREST RESERVE BOUNDARY

T41 N

EDIAGRAM FDOARTMEIDNGMAARPCAHRTO1F9P7R3OCLAMATION

T40 N

R3E RAE R.SE R.6 E R7E

T 39 N

T38 N

T37 N.

T.36 N.

T35 N. T.34 N T34N

T.33 N.

T32 N.

R7W

R.6 W

R.5 W

COLORADO R.4 W NEW MEXICO

BOUNDARY RIW RIE R.2 E LINE

R3 W R2W

R.3 E. R.4 E R.5 E. R6E R.7 E

30 WEST FROM WASHINGTON

R. 41 E. R.42 E. R.43E. R.44E. R.45E, R.5W. R. 4W. R.3W
T.40N. 4+++++ +

R.2 W.

RIW T.65 N

T39 N.

++

T64 N

38 N.

T. 63 N

T.37

+

T. 36 N.

T35N T34 N. T33 N.

T. 62 N. T.BIN T. 60 N T. 59N T. 58 N.

32 N.

T. 57 N.

WILLAMETTE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE,

BOISE MERIDIAN AND BASE LINE

PRIEST RIVER FOREST RESERVE IDAHO AND WASHINGTON

FOREST SERVICE, U. S. DEPT. OF AGRICULTURE 1907

Compiled from G. L.O. plats

CDIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION DATED MARCH 2, 19073

Forest Reserye Soundery

40 West from Washington

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

3309

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

March 2, 1907.

A PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS , the Priest River Forest Reserve, in the States of Priest River Forest Reserve, Idaho
Idaho and Washington, was established by proclamation dated Feb- anPdrWeaamsbhl.e. ruary twenty-second, eighteen hundred and ninety-seven , and the Vol. 29, p. 903. boundaries thereof were subsequently enlarged by proclamation dated Ante, p. 3257.

November sixth, nineteen hundred and six ;

And whereas, it appears that the public good would be promoted

by further adding to the said forest reserve certain lands, in the

States of Idaho and Washington , which are in part covered with

timber ;

Now,

therefore,

I,

Theodore

Roosevelt,

President

of

the

United

Boundaries ther enlarged.

fur-

States of America , by virtue of the power in me vested by the Act Vol. 30, p. 36.

of Congress, approved June fourth, eighteen hundred and ninety-

seven, entitled, "An Act Making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes," do proclaim that the boundaries of the aforesaid Priest River Forest Re-

serve are hereby further enlarged to include the said additional lands, and that they are now as shown on the diagram forming a part hereof ;
Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any.

Lands excepted.

awful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States

and Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry

or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reserva-

tion for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue

to apply to any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent continues in force ; not

Coal lands.

excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been with-

drawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ; and provided that these

exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection, entry, or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of

record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation.

Reserved

Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon settlement.

the lands reserved by this proclamation .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and

caused the seal of the United States to be affixed .

from

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven,

[SEAL. ]

and of the Independence of the United States the one hundred and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President :

ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

3310

PROCLAMATIONS, 1907.

March 2, 1907.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Tillamook Forest

Reserve, Oreg.

WHEREAS , the public lands in the State of Oregon, which are

Preamble.

hereinafter indicated, are in part covered with timber, and it appears

Vol. 26, p. 1103.

that the public good would be promoted by setting apart said lands as a public reservation ;
And, whereas, it is provided by section twenty- four of the Act of Congress, approved March third, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, entitled, "An act to repeal timber-culture laws, and for other purposes," That the President of the United States may, from time to time, set apart and reserve, in any State or Territory having public

land bearing forests, in any part of the public lands wholly or in part covered with timber or undergrowth , whether of commercial value or not, as public reservations, and the President shall, by public proclamation, declare the establishment of such reservations and

Forest Oregon.

the limits thereof " ; reserve, Now, therefore, I, Theodore Roosevelt, President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section twenty- four of the aforesaid act of Congress , do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from entry or settlement and set apart as a Public Reservation, for the use and benefit of the people, all the tracts of land, in the State of Oregon, shown as the Tillamook For-

Lands excepted. Coal lands.

est Reserve on the diagram forming a part hereof ; Excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation all lands
which are at this date embraced in any legal entry or covered by any lawful filing or selection duly of record in the proper United States Land Office, or upon which any valid settlement has been made pursuant to law, and the statutory period within which to make entry or filing of record has not expired ; and also excepting all lands which at this date are embraced within any withdrawal or reservation for any use or purpose to which this reservation for forest uses is inconsistent : Provided, that these exceptions shall not continue to apply to' any particular tract of land unless the entryman, settler, or claimant continues to comply with the law under which the entry, filing, or settlement was made, or unless the reservation or withdrawal to which this reservation is inconsistent con-
tinues in force ; not excepting from the force and effect of this proclamation, however, any land within the boundary herein described, which has been withdrawn to protect the coal therein but this proclamation does not vacate any such coal land withdrawal ;

Reserved settlement.

and provided that these exceptions shall not apply to any land embraced in any selection , entry or filing, which has been allowed or permitted to remain of record subject to the creation of a permanent reservation . from
Warning is hereby given to all persons not to make settlement upon
the lands reserved by this proclamation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington this 2d day of March, in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seven, and

[SEAL. ] of the Independence of the United States the one hundred

and thirty-first.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT

By the President : ELIHU ROOT

Secretary of State.

TILLAMOOK FOREST RESERVE OREGON
FOREST SERVICE, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. 1907
Compiled from G.L.0.plats Forest Reserve Boundary

RIOW

R9W

R8W R7W

OCEAN

PACI FIC

LC-ION-GBAN

ILLAMOOK T4S T5'S T6S T73 TBS T9S
Willamette Meridian and Base Line . DIAGRAM FORMING A PART OF PROCLAMATION
DATED MARCH 2, 1907. 47°West from Washington.

INDEX .

A.

Page.

Aaron, Michael,

pension increased..

2078

Abandoned Military Reservations (see Military Reservations, Abandoned) .

Abandonment, etc. , of Wife or Chila, D. C.,

punishment for willful...

86

Abatement of Nuisances, D. C.,

provisions for, on failure of owner of prop-

erty ..

114

Abbey, George J..

pension increased .

2759

Abbott, Alvin,

pension increased .

1506

Abbott, Charles S. ,

pension increased .

2545

Abbott, Manning,

pension increased .

1886

Abby Palmer," Bark,

change of name authorized .

626

Abel, John D. ,

pension increased .

1056

Abingdon, Va. ,

terms of court at..

547

Abney, Julia A. (uidow),

pension increased .

2202

Acapulco, Mexico, classification and salary of consul ....................... 100
Accessories to Crimes,

treaty provisions with Norway for sur-

render of, modified .

2865

Accounting Officers of the Treasury Depart-

ment,

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

certified by..

45, 665, 1400

Accounts and Disbursements Division, Depart-'

ment of Agriculture, appropriation for salaries...

689, 1274

Achey, Ephraim D.,

pension increased.

2155

Acker, Dillon F.,

pension increased .

1613

Ackerley , Albert J. ,

pension increased.

2608

Ackerman, Frederick G.,

pension increased ..

2801

Ackert, William H.,.

pension increased .

1583

Ackley, Emily V. (widow),

pension increased.

2403

Ackley, John F.,

pension increased ..

2735

Ackley, Louise (widow),

pension...

1747

Actors, Alien, not excluded admission under contract ... 899

Adair, Thomas,

pension increased .

1524

Adair, William P. ,

claim for services to Osages, referred to

Court of Claims....

365

Adams,·Annie, Wichita Allottee, patent issued to, canceled..
Adums, David, Indian Allottee. fee-simple title to ....
Adams, Elvina (widow), pension increased ..

Page. 364
380
2455

Adams, George Edward,

appropriation for special master to take tes-

timony in case of, embezzling gold.

dust ...

755

Adams, George W. , pension increased ..
Adams, H: C. , late a Representative in Congress,
deficiency appropriation for pay to widow .
Adams, H. C., deficiency appropriation for services ......
Adams, James B., pension increased .
Adams, Jonathan M. , pension increased ..
Adams, Margaret (widow). pension increased ..

1884
1396 43
2111 2284 2643

Adams, Martin L.,

pension increased ..

1632

Adams, Mary E. (widow) ,

pension increased.

1966

Adams, Nathan F. , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

345

Adams, Ralph A. ,

pension increased .

1566

Adams, Sarah (daughter),
pension.. Adams , Sarah E. (widow),
pension increased.. Adams Street NW. , D. C.,
appropriation for purchasing lands for extending..
assessment of benefits, etc.
Adams, Thomas, pension increased .
Adams, Thomas D. , pension increased .
·Adams, Thomas H., pension increased .
Adams, William, pension increased .
Adams, William H., pension increased .
Adamson, George W., pension increased .
Adelotte, Elijah C., pension increased .
Aden, Arabia, classification and salary of consul .................. .
Adis Ababa, Abyssinia, classi.ication and salary of consul-general ...
Adjournment of Congress, ordered for June 30, 1906 . 3311

1985 1647
1008 1008 2554 2093 2770 2205 2692 1570 2601 100
99 2835

3312

INDEX.

Adjanibeneral & Department. Army.

name of Milltary Secretary's Department changed to

wait

to be The Adjutant-General.

ober Adjutant-General

Achim - max 95a. War Department. of Military Secretary Office
changed to..
Actins. Jaiarm.

pensics.. Abreunion ofNew States see also Arizona and
Oklahoma .

Oklahoma to comprise Oklahoma and Indian. Terriones ..

Indians rights not impaired . extstitutional convention provisions.
quats of voters. election districts. Oklahoma.
Ovage Indian Reservation . Indian Territory. conduct of elections...

in Indian Territory and Osage Reservation

Guthrieto be temporary capital , etc .. convention proceedings..

constitutional provisions required : civil rights.

religious freedom : polygamy prohibited . liquor prohibition in present Indian
Territory and other Indian lands..

sales , etc., permitted .. disclaimer asto public and Indian lands. equality of taxation , etc. 2umption of Territorial debts and lia-
bilities....

maintenance of public schools.. right of suffrage.. election for action on constitution . canvass of returns ..

certifying result . proclamation by the President. admission as State.. appropriation for election and convention
expenses .....

five Representatives to be elected . Congressional districts..

election of Representatives and State officers at time of constitution election ..

sections of public lands in Oklahoma granted for common schools .
appropriation for common schools in lieu of

Indian Territory lands.... for lands embraced in parks, etc., ex-
´cluded ......

grants for universities, etc ..

public institutions and buildings . mineral and oil land provisions; leases, etc. disposal by State of common school lands..

university and public institutions lands .
five per cent fund for support of common schools .....

grants in lieu of internal improvements,
and swamp- land grants.. eastern and western judicial districts con-
stituted .....

officers, terms, etc. cognizance of crimes and offenses..

determination of pending appeals and writs of error, etc...
cases transferable to Federal courts... cases in State courts..

supreme court, jurisdiction, etc..
courts of original jurisdiction, records, etc ...

pending causes to be proceeded in .

GUNK A GAGGA & AA & A GGGG & GG GX72222222 ää ** ** ** * ** 2 822 888ZA A*G*G*G8*G8*G8*G8*

Page 1258 1255

Admiarion of Neu States Continued.

Page.

constitutional convention may provide for

fall State government.

to remain in abeyance until admitted

into the Unia ..

elerting of Sensues, etc...

1:58 21861

operation of State government, etc.. terms of this act to be accepted by consti-
tutional convention ....
Arizona to comprise Arizona and New Mexico Territories..
constitutional convention provisions .

apportionment of delegates.. tallis: vote on united statehood .

ceriving results of election....

if majority in each Territory is for

union. State may be admitted

failure, if we in either Territory

against union .....

proclamation for election : requirements. 278 conduct of election under Territorial ·

laws...

279

certifying returns of vote in Arizona if fr union

call for convention if New Mexico also votes for union .....

vote on adoption of constitution . convention proceedings; date; duties.
general principies.

constitutional provisions required : civil

270

rights ..

270

religious freedom : polygamy, and liquor

270

to Indians prohibited .......

disclaimer as to public and Indian lands. 279

270

equality of taxation ; Indian and Gov-

270

ernment lands exempt ...

271

assuming debts of Territories..

280

271

maintenance of public schools..

280

271

right of suffrage : qualifications for office. 280

271

capital at Santa Fe until 1915..

280

271 submission of constitution to the people... 280

271

time of election .....

280

canvass of returns .

280

271

certificate if constitution adopted .

280

271

proclamation by the President..

271 admission as State ......

two Representatives to be elected .

272

election of, and other officers when con-

stitution is voted on .....

272 grant of lands for common schools .

281

lands excluded from selection..

272

preservation of Casa Grande, parks, etc.

nonmineral lands for buildings and pay-

272

ment of bonds .....

273 university lands vested in new State..

additional grants; sectarian institutions excluded .....

Territorial grants confirmed to State....

274 five per cent fund for support of common

schools ....

274 appropriation for common schools; pay-

ment, etc ....

274 disposal of educational lands ; leases...

lands in lieu of internal improvements, and

275

swamp-land grants ....

275

distribution ; allotment to agricultural

275

colleges continued.......

commission to select lands granted .... 276 mineral lands exempted from grants..

276 eastern and western judicial districts con-

276

stituted; boundaries..........

277

courts: attached to ninth circuit..

officers, terms, etc ....

determination of pending appeals, etc...

277

succession of courts; transfer of cases, etc.

INDEX.

3313

¢¢ 33

Admission of New States - Continued . constitutional convention to provide for full State government....... Congressional districts ..
State government in abeyance till admission...
legislature to assemble and elect Senators if constitution ratified .....

Page. 285 285 285 285

certifying election of Senators and Repre-

sentatives ...

285

operation of State government, laws, etc... 285

appropriation for election and convention

expenses...

285

excess to be paid by State ..

285

expenditures under Secretary of the In-

terior....

285

Adrian Brick and Tile Machine Company, deficiency appropriation for letter boxes... 658

Adshead, John,

pension increased ..

2423

Adulterations of Food,

appropriation for investigations of ..... 685, 1271

Adulterations of Food, Drugs, etc. (see also

Pure Food Act),

provisions for punishing ..

768

Advertisements,

encouraging importation of alien contract

labor, forbidden ..........

900

exception as to States, etc.

900

of transportation company, etc. , inviting

alien immigration, forbidden ...

900

penalties...

900

Advertising, D. C., appropriation for..

489, 1126

African Slave Trade, Bureau for Repression of,

appropriation for annual contribution... 291, 920

Agate Bay, Minn. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1101

Age Pensions,

62 years and over made a permanent spe-

cific disability..

133, 1406

allowed at 62, for service in civil and Mexi-

can war; rating ..

879

Agnew, Jane (widow),

pension..

2670

Agey, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2370

Agricultural and Mechanical College, Okla., lands reserved for ; disposition ..
indemnity grant of lands to... Agricultural Bank, Philippine Islands,
guaranty by Philippine Commission of income on capital ...
company designated... loans solely for assisting agriculture...
maximum ; interest ... regulations, reports, etc. guaranty payments a lien, to be paid from
net profits.... dividends, excepted . repayment on liquidation.. restriction on real estate holdings..

273 275
1282 1282 1282 1282
1282
1283 1283 1283 1283

Agricultural Colleges,

appropriation for maintenance, etc., by

States and Territories, increased .... 1281

method of payment..

1282

course for teachers..

1282

Agricultural Department (see Department of

Agriculture ) .

Agricultural Experiment Stations,

annual appropriations to States and Terri-

tories for, increased..

63

general provisions..

63

apportionments misapplied, etc. , to be

replaced by State or Territory ...... 63

Agricultural Experiment Stations - Cont'd . Page.

annual appropriations; limit for buildings,

land, etc..

64

reports of operations, etc. , required .....

64

annual certificate of compliance by States

and Territories...

64

Congressional action in case of failure .

64

annual report to Congress of operations.... 64

allotment of increased annual appropria-

tions ...

696

Agricultural Experiment Stations, Depart-

ment of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries, office of.. 692, 1278

for expenses; publications, etc.

693, 1278

for Alaska, Hawaii , and Porto Rico ... 693, 1278

forreports, etc. , on farmers' institutes. 693,1279

for nutrition investigations .....

694, 1279

for irrigation and drainage investigations 694, 1279

Agricultural Industry,

appropriation for experiments and re-

searches bearing upon.....

63

Agricultural Lands in Forest Reservations,

provisions for opening to homestead en-

tries ...

233

Agricultural Literature,

appropriation for preparation and distribu-

tion of card index to............ 692, 1278

Agricultural Products,

appropriation for expenses extending for-

eign markets for..

691, 1276

Agricultural Report,

appropriation for printing and binding.. 760, 1367

Agriculture,

proclamation reserving lands to Indians in

Uintah Indian Reservation , Utah,

for...

3141

Agriculture, International Institute of, deficiency appropriation for quota, etc.... 635

Aguascalientes , Mexico,

classification and salary of consul.............

100

Agur, Thomas A. ,

pension increased ..

1821

Aids to Navigation ( see Light-Houses, Beacons, and Fog Signals).
Aiken, S. C.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for.

795

Aikin, Emma C. (widow),

pension.. Airey, Charles W.,

2584

pension increased ...

2575

Aix la Chapelle, Germany,

classification and salary of consul.

99

appropriation for clerk hire....

294, 924

Akerley, Ebenezer W.,

pension increased ..

1978

Akin, Thomas, pension increased ...

2617

Alabama ,

homesteaders may transfer entries can-

celed by grants to railroads...

1408

retention of tract ; option of holder unaer

railroads.

1409

selections on relinquishment..

1409

public lands to be reclassified ; homestead

entries....

88888888

appropriation for expenses...

Alabama Northern Judicial District,

district judge authorized for; residence.... 931

deficiency appropriation for....

1390

terms of court, Birmingham ..

114

assignment ofjudge to hold term.

114

TEI

butuna I fuchana te

I ZAPI HNC

Granng malus sulen Burne

anean out Grier hairva

Imounes mer a fonte

a. TAERGOL V MK i

ferd

3Z9RMR2CR

Tr

minary surgica

2

TAH ...

541

fires CHINES TO THE TIME IT CARDS SUN..

SHEELACTE Bert THRASH L

I 20 RUG TE HÊH TE STATE

in som an

fur survey of zal. Fartatika T JHICA

Free UK

...

ár

+Ijer les sache » ATA

BL ..

Sencat AL 1. PLOIE sta . irang VER L ---

ir san

...

for fen las

fur geng alarm im ir ouac I

fr moon É PHILSHER TINGS I BELIE But É AUCUN IL

fr asta day wiocia ár

e

..

fe

fr entre 11

me.

áve toe wat jull Farma. for

for underna Iene te ÔN

jmy mom

fro

SD Te269...

SCT accrenate is Avaging

Stro fre meter..

for mening brown pipis bucur r

T Desgin fenes provided for qulda
22 -

qsk Dal og for voters. war dera fé cé-

in

ng tanta povsorta do-

the yard duties and autACHT .
Twed as priim.

1.4

-



SUIS TE BEVOLLLTthem, sum jackress. Juster DC TRUSTUS....
inspect É tuls and Num abcllubed for
hic tecore mapped. Some gand INTER
Ticense jers Prot

WING THE DA

DO KIA Z KRE SONGS 130 JELÍN

Cubosing officer to DET PITUTES travel and loving expenses Lived

Meciskach incas even certala civie sue of Generates coll de cetinens of Soome...

141 14 2543

MAX

DAT mo

Tamama Mines Batting exempt from tax

time expanded the creolering by Alaska

Alaska Short Line hallway and Navign-

the Company..

Commel Cary and Schemen River Rail-

rand Company...

4.1225

Taider Marshal Pass and Nogthern

Radmoed Comey...

915

waters of endladed in fourth grest coasting

decic ..

190

Darbs and Condo Bunday appergration fte surveys, etc., to mark. Re

Alcica Central Balvey Company

me enended ir omplaing road in Alseks..

Alte Fund access the licenses

side of towns to be 192

we go to be worn b = BMI zra

RR

INDEX.

3315

Alaska Fund- Continued .

Page.

distribution for schools, insane persons,

roads, bridges, and trails.........

192

inspectors to collect, appointed by mar-

shal..

192

use by board of road commissioners .

192

allowance for travel and living expenses of

commissioners ...

193

Alaska Pacific Railway and Terminal Com-

pany, may bridge Copper River at Childs Glacier. 804

build trestle, Whale Island to mainland,

Controller Bay, Alaska .......

803

Alaska Salmon Fisheries,

license tax on business on output ..

478

rebate for fry liberated ; rate.

478

determination of fry liberated .

478

license tax, issuance of certificates; receiv--

able for tax

479

prohibition on maintaining fixed obstruc-

tions to spawning grounds....

479

laying seines , etc., across sálmon streams . 479

weekly close season for catching salmon

except by rod , etc .............

479

preserves for spawning grounds ..

480

closing, etc., of streams authorized when

catch exceeds production ..

480

notice to parties interested ; effect..

480

not applicable to streams fully stocked

artificially ..

480

canning 48 hours after killing, unlawful... 480 wanton destruction, etc. , of food fishes

unlawful ....

480

misbranding fish products unlawful ; terms

permitted ..

480

annual reports from canneries, hatcheries ,

etc., required..

480.

catching, etc., fish of all kinds, except by

rod, etc. , subject to this act ...

480

enforcement by officials of Department of

Commerce and Labor; estimates.... 480

penalties for violations; seizure of vessels.. 481

prosecutions; proceedings...

481

Alaska Short Line Railway and Navigation

Company,

time extended for constructing road in

Alaska..

610

Alaskan Seal Fisheries,

appropriation for protecting .

702, 1309

for agents.. for food to natives.

721 , 1329 721, 1329

deficiency appropriation for janitors ... 42, 1393

Alban, William H.,

pension increased..

1556

Albany, Ga.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .. appropriation for..

778 792, 1295

Albany Power and Manufacturing Company,

may dam, etc. , Flint River at Porter

Shoals, Ga ...

878

Albany Railroad Bridge Company

may reconstruct bridge across Mississippi

River, Clinton , Iowa..

879

Albemarle Sound, N. C. ,

appropriation for improvement of water

route from Norfolk, Va. , to ......

1083

Albemarle Street NW. , D. C.,

condemnation proceedings for extending.. 1225

appropriation for..

1226

deficiency appropriation for extending.

641

Albert, John,

pension increased ..

1834

Albertson, Ambrose D. ,

pension increased .

2362

Albuquerque, Ariz., terms of court ..

Page. 283

Albuquerque, N. Mex., appropriation for Indian school ..

358, 1040

construction of public building authorized

at..

777

appropriation for..

791

lands granted to, for public park, etc ...

227

Alcohol (see also Denatured Alcohol) ,

transfer without payment of tax to central

denaturing bonded warehouses ..... 1250 Alcoholic Liquors,

provisions against traffic in constitution of

Oklahoma..

269

Alden, Charles H., pension increased .
Alden, Emily J. (widow),
pension... Alden, John A. ,
pension increased ...

2722 1937 2143

Alden William Seymour,

pension increased.

2645

Alderman, Jesse,

pension increased ..

1828

Aldred, Emma (widow),

pension...

1534

Alarich, Julia G. (widow),

pension...

1781

Aldrich, Lumbard B. ,

pension increased .

1492

Aldrich, Truman,

pension increased ...........

1906

Ale,

constitutional restrictions of sale, etc., in

Oklahoma ...

269

Alexander, George B. D. ,

pension increased ..

1792

Alexander Place, D. C.,

vacation of; reversion ..

885

Alexander, Rebecca A. (widow), pension increased ..
Alexander, Thomas C., pension increased .
Alexandretta, Syria, classification and salary of consul..
Alexandria, Minn.,

2143 2054
100

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for ....

793, 1295

Algeciras, International Conference,

general act for reforms in Morocco, con-

cluded at..

2905

Alger, Russell A. , late a Senator, deficiency appropriation for pay to widow . 1394

Algiers, Africa,

classification and salary of consul...

100

Algiers Naval Station, La. (see New Orleans).

Algoma ( Ahnapee) , Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1101

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made ...

1118

Alien Contract Labor, excluded from admission ....
importation of, unlawful; penalty.. Alienation Restrictions , Indians,
continuing after expiration of trust period . not applicable to Indian Territory lands.
Aliens (see also, Citizenship and Immigration Act),
appropriation for exclusion of, detrimental to labor conditions ....
provisions for naturalization of.
fishing in Alaskan waters by, prohibited, except by rod , etc..
regulations of immigration of..

899 900
326 326
1330 596 264 898

3312

INDEX .

1)

Adjutant-General's Department, Army, name of Military Secretary's Department changed to... senior officerto be The Adjutant-General, others Adjutant-General
Adjutant-General's Office, War Department, name of Military Secretary's Office changed to..
Adkins, Jackson,
pension... Admission of New States (see also Arizona and
Oklahoma) ,
Oklahoma to comprise Oklahoma and Indian Territories ..
Indians' rights not impaired . constitutional convention provisions .
qualifications of voters .. election districts, Oklahoma..
Osage Indian Reservation.. Indian Territory . conduct of elections ..
in Indian Territory and Osage Reservation ..
Guthrie to be temporary capital , etc .. convention proceedings ..
constitutional provisions required ; civil rights...
religious freedom; polygamy prohibited . liquor prohibition in present Indian
Territory and other Indian lands ... sales, etc., permitted .... disclaimer as to public and Indian lands . equality of taxation, etc ... assumption of Territorial debts and lia-
bilities....
maintenance of public schools . right of suffrage .. election for action on constitution. canvass of returns ..
certifying result .. proclamation by the President . admission as State... appropriation for election and convention
expenses.. five Representatives to be elected . Congressional districts ....
election of Representatives and State officers at time of constitution election..
sections of public lands in Oklahoma granted for common schools ...
appropriation for common schools in lieu of
Indian Territory lands... for lands embraced in parks, etc. , ex-
' cluded .. grants for universities, etc..
public institutions and buildings . mineral and oil land provisions ; leases, etc. disposal by State of common school lands..
university and public institutions lands . five per cent fund for support of common
schools...
grants in lieu of internal improvements , and swamp-land grants..
eastern and western judicial districts constituted ..
officers, terms, etc .. cognizance of crimes and offenses ..
determination of pending appeals and writs of error, etc ..
cases transferable to Federal courts .. cases in State courts .
'supreme court, jurisdiction, etc.. courts of original jurisdiction, records,
etc....
pending causes to be proceeded in.....

Page.
1158
1158
1158
2186
267 267 268 268 268 268 268 268
268 269 269
269 269
269 270 270 270
270 270 271 271 271 271 271 271
271 271 271
272
272
272
272 273 273 273 274 274
274
274
275 275 275
276 276 276 277
277 , 277

Admission of New States-Continued .

Page.

constitutional convention may provide for

full State government..

277

to remain in abeyance until admitted

into the Union ..

277

election of Senators , etc.

277

operation of State government, etc..

277

terms of this act to be accepted by consti-

tutional convention ..

278

Arizona to comprise Arizona and New

Mexico Territories..

278

constitutional convention provisions .

278

apportionment of delegates......

278

ballots; vote on united statehood .

278

certifying results of election ...

278

if majority in each Territory is for

union, State may be admitted ..

278

failure, if vote in either Territory is

against union.....

278

proclamation for election ; requirements . 278

conduct of election under Territorial ·

laws ....

279

certifying returns of vote in Arizona if

for union

279

call for convention if New Mexico also

votes for union ..

279

vote on adoption of constitution .

279

convention proceedings ; date ; duties ..

279

general principles..

279

constitutional provisions required ; civil

rights...

279

religious freedom; polygamy, and liquor

to Indians prohibited ..

279

disclaimer as to public and Indian lands . 279

equality of taxation ; Indian and Gov-

ernment lands exempt..

.279

assuming debts of Territories ..

280

maintenance of public schools..

280

right of suffrage; qualifications for office. 280

capital at Santa Fe until 1915 ...

280

submission of constitution to the people... 280

time of election.....

280

canvass of returns.

280

certificate if constitution adopted .

280

proclamation by the President ..

280

admission as State....

281

two Representatives to be elected .

281

election of, and other officers when con-

stitution is voted on....

281

grant of lands for common schools ..

281

lands excluded from selection ..

281

preservation of Casa Grande, parks, etc. 281 nonmineral lands for buildings and pay-

ment of bonds ....

282

university lands vested in new State .

282

additional grants ; sectarian institutions

excluded ..

282

Territorial grants confirmed to State..........

282

five per cent fund for support of common

schools ..

282

appropriation for common schools; payment, etc...
disposal of educational lands ; leases .. lands in lieu of internal improvements, and
swamp-land grants .. distribution ; allotment to agricultural
colleges continued ..
commission to select lands granted . mineral lands exempted from grants .. eastern and western judicial districts con-
stituted; boundaries ... courts; attached to ninth circuit..
officers, terms , etc ... determination of pending appeals, etc.. succession of courts ; transfer of cases, etc.

282 282
283
283 283 283
283 283 283 , 284 284

INDEX .

3313



Admission of New States -Continued.

Page.

constitutional convention to provide for

full State government...

285

Congressional districts..

285

State government in abeyance till admis-

sion .

285

legislature to assemble and elect Senators

if constitution ratified....

285

certifying election of Senators and Repre-

sentatives..

285

operation of State government, laws, etc... 285

appropriation for election and convention

expenses..

285

excess to be paid by State.

285

expenditures under Secretary of the In-

terior....

285

Adrian Brick and Tile Machine Company,

deficiency appropriation for letter boxes... 658

Adshead, John,

pension increased ..

2423

Adulterations of Food,

appropriation for investigations of ..... 685, 1271

Adulterations of Food, Drugs , etc. (see also

Pure Food Act),

provisions for punishing ..

768

Advertisements,

encouraging importation of alien contract

labor, forbidden...

900

exception as to States, etc..

900

of transportation company, etc. , inviting

alien immigration, forbidden ..

900

penalties....

900

Advertising, D. C., appropriation for ..

489, 1126

African Slave Trade, Bureau for Repression of,

appropriation for annual contribution ... 291, 920

Agate Bay, Minn. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1101

Age Pensions,

62 years and over made a permanent spe-

cific disability.

133, 1406

allowed at 62, for service in civil and Mexi-

can war; rating ..

879

Agnew, Jane (widow),

pension..

2670

Agey, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2370

Agricultural and Mechanical College, Okla.,

lands reserved for; disposition ..

273

indemnity grant of lands to..

275

Agricultural Bank, Philippine Islands,

guaranty by Philippine Commission of

income on capital..

1282

company designated ...

1282

loans solely for assisting agriculture ..

1282

maximum ; interest..

1282

regulations, reports , etc ..

1282

guaranty payments a lien, to be paid from

net profits....

1283

dividends, excepted ..

1283

repayment on liquidation..

1283

restriction on real estate holdings ..

1283

Agricultural Colleges,

appropriation for maintenance, etc. , by

States and Territories, increased... 1281

method of payment...

1282

course for teachers...

1282

Agricultural Department (see Department of Agriculture ) .

Agricultural Experiment Stations,

annual appropriations to States and Terri-

tories for, increased .

63

general provisions ..

63

apportionments misapplied, etc., to be

replaced by State or Territory ..........

63

Agricultural Experiment Stations- Cont'd .
annual appropriations; limit for buildings, land, etc..
reports of operations, etc. , required .. annual certificate of compliance by States
and Territories...
Congressional action in case of failure . annual report to Congress of operations... allotment of increased annual appropria-
tions ...

Page.
64 64
64 64 64
696

Agricultural Experiment Stations, Depart-

ment of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries, office of.. 692, 1278

for expenses; publications , etc ..

693, 1278

for Alaska, Hawaii, and Porto Rico... 693, 1278

forreports, etc. , on farmers' institutes . 693,1279

for nutrition investigations....

694, 1279

for irrigation and drainage investigations 694, 1279

Agricultural Industry,

appropriation for experiments and re-

searches bearing upon..

63

Agricultural Lands in Forest Reservations,

provisions for opening to homestead en

tries ..

233

Agricultural Literature,

appropriation for preparation and distribu-

tion of card index to........

692, 1278

Agricultural Products,

appropriation for expenses extending for-

eign markets for...

691 , 1276

Agricultural Report,

appropriation for printing and binding.. 760, 1367

Agriculture,

proclamation reserving lands to Indians in Uintah Indian Reservation , Utah,

for....

3141

Agriculture, International Institute of,

deficiency appropriation for quota, etc.... 635

Aguascalientes, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul...................

100

Agur, Thomas A. ,

pension increased .

1821

Aids to Navigation ( see Light- Houses, Beacons, and Fog Signals).
Aiken, S. C.,

acquiring site for public building at, thorized ..
appropriation for.. Aikin, Emma C. (widow),
pension... Airey, Charles W.,
pension increased.. Aix la Chapelle, Germany,
classification and salary of consul... appropriation for clerk hire....

au784 795
2584
2575
99 294, 924

Akerley , Ebenezer W.,

pension increased .

1978

Akin, Thomas,

pension increased .....

2617

Alabama,

homesteaders may transfer entries can-

celed by grants to railroads....

1408

retention of tract; option of holder under

railroads .

1409

selections on relinquishment..

1409

public lands to be reclassified ; homestead

entries...

appropriation for expenses..

Alabama Northern Judicial District,
district judge authorized for; residence .... deficiency appropriation for..
terms of court, Birmingham.. assignment ofjudge to hold term .

931 1390
114 114

888888 88

3314

INDEX .

Alabama Power Company,

Page.

may dam Coosa River, Ala., at Lock and

Dam No. 12 ....

1288

Alabama River, Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of....

1087

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1111

Alabama, Tennessee and Northern Railroad

Company,

may bridge Tombigbee River at Stones

Ferry, Ala...

849

Alameda, Cal.,

cooperation with mayor, relief of earth-

quake sufferers ...

827

Alaska,

appropriation for salaries, government in . 416, 963

for contingent expenses...

416, 963

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc ... 434, 979

for extension, etc. , military telegraph

system..

241 , 1159

for military roads, etc

254, 1171

for surveys, etc. , boundary between Can-

ada and....

292, 922

for relief and protection of shipwrecked

seamen..

295, 925

for survey of trail, Fairbanks to Council

City

316

for emergency mail service....

472, 1211

for agricultural experiment stations ; live

stock...

693, 1279

for repairs, etc., to buildings, Sitka.. 699, 1306

for lighting waters of...

713, 1320

for survey of coasts. for steam launch, salmon culture . for fish hatcheries ...

714, 1322 721 1329

for protecting salmon fisheries ..

721, 1329

for education of natives...

729, 1337

allowance to special agents , etc. for support of reindeer...
transfer to missions ..

729
730, 1338 730

sale of surplus males....

1338

for additional day schools for natives,

supervision..

1338

for care, etc., of insane.

731 , 1388

for court-house and jail at Nome..... 751 , 1358

for court-house and jail, Fairbanks ..

751

for jail, Valdez............

751

for incidental expenses, court officials. 752, 1359

for traveling expenses, court officials . 752, 1359

for investigating mineral resources ...... 1336

for miscellaneous court expenses ...... 1361

deficiency appropriation for investigating

mineral resources..

37

for surveyor-general ..

47

for reindeer....

654

for surveyor-general, removing office to

Juneau...

654

for returning Indian pupils home from

Carlisle School ..

655

for jail......

656

for Delegate from .

661

for court expenses ..

1390

Delegate from, provided for; qualifica-

tions ...

169

allowance in lieu of mileage , etc ...

170

time for election ; service at first election. 170

qualifications for voters ......

170

voting places in towns; election of offi-

cers, polls, notices ....

170

in recording districts; precincts, no-

tices, judges....

171

election boards, duties and authority .

171

duties of clerks .....

172

watchers allowed at polls..

172

filling vacancies on day of election... 172

voting hours ; form of ballots ....

172

Alaska-Continued .

Page.

depositing ballots; challenges

172

oath required if challenged ; penalty

for false swearing..

173

canvass of result; duplicate certificates,

contents ...

173

certificate, etc. , to governor..

173

to clerk of district court..

173

preservation of documents ..

173

canvassing board, officers constituting

173

public canvass of returns..

173

acceptance of certificate from clerk of

the court ....

173

declaration of election ; delivery of cer-

tificate ....

173

publication and posting notices....

174

rent of polls; compensation to election

officers ..

174

expenses to be paid by district court ... 174

punishment for illegal acts by voters, etc. 174

by election officers...

174

fishing in waters of, by aliens, prohibited .. 263

exceptions, rod, etc ..

263

sales of, lawfully taken; alien laborers... 263

punishments for violations..

264

prosecutions ; seizure, etc ..

264

homestead allotments to natives ; restric-

tions .....

197

inspector of hulls and boilers abolished for

collection district...

106

provided for Juneau and Saint Michaels . 106

land districts created, Nome and Fair-

banks .....

1232

license fees collected outside of towns to

constitute "Alaska fund " .

192

distribution of...

192

inspectors for collecting ..

192

road commissioners ; composition of board;

duties ...

192

laying out roads; bids if work costs over

$20,000..

192

disbursing officer to pay expenses..

193

travel and living expenses allowed mem-

bers ..

193

Metlakahtla Indians given certain civic

rights...

1411

mining claims, annual labor requirements . 1243

fees to recorders..........

1243

sale of Government coal to citizens of Nome,

authorized ..

59

salmon fishery regulations..

478

teachers , etc., may assign pay; reimburse-

ment for expenses..

824

Tanana Mines Railroad exempt from taxa-

tion ; conditions, etc .. time extended for completing by Alaska
Central Railway; additional grant .. Alaska Short Line Railway and Naviga-
tion Company.

1233 798 610

Council City and Solomon River Rail-

road Company..

6, 1225

Valdez, Marshall Pass and Northern

Railroad Company..

915

waters of, included in fourth great coasting

district ....

190

Alaska and Canada Boundary,

appropriation for surveys , etc. , to mark. 292, 922

Alaska Central Railway Company,

time extended for completing road in

Alaska...

798

additional grants.

799

Alaska Fund,

moneys from licenses outside of towns to be

known as.

192

INDEX .

3315

Alaska Fund-Continued .

Page.

distribution for schools, insane persons,

roads, bridges, and trails...

192

inspectors to collect, appointed by mar-

shal ...

192

use by board of road commissioners ..

192

allowance for travel and living expenses of

commissioners...

193

Alaska Pacific Railway and Terminal Com-

pany, may bridge Copper River at Childs Glacier. 804

build trestle, Whale Island to mainland,

Controller Bay, Alaska..........

803

Alaska Salmon Fisheries,

license tax on business on output ..

478

rebate for fry liberated ; rate.

478

determination of fry liberated .

478

license tax , issuance of certificates ; receiv--

able for tax

479

prohibition on maintaining fixed obstruc-

tions to spawning grounds....

479

laying seines, etc., across sálmon streams . 479

weekly close season for catching salmon

except by rod , etc ....

479

preserves for spawning grounds ..

480

closing, etc., of streams authorized when

catch exceeds production ..

480

notice to parties interested ; effect..

480

not applicable to streams fully stocked

artificially ..

480

canning 48 hours after killing, unlawful... 480

wanton destruction , etc. , of food fishes

unlawful...

480

misbranding fish products unlawful ; terms

permitted ..

480

annual reports from canneries, hatcheries,

etc., required ..

480.

catching, etc., fish of all kinds, except by

rod, etc. , subject to this act ..

480

enforcement by officials of Department of

Commerce and Labor; estimates .. 480

penalties for violations ; seizure of vessels .. 481

prosecutions ; proceedings ..

481

Alaska Short Line Railway and Navigation

Company,

time extended for constructing road in

Alaska .

610

Alaskan Seal Fisheries,
appropriation for protecting.. for agents.... for food to natives .

702, 1309 721, 1329 721, 1329

deficiency appropriation for janitors ... 42 , 1393

Alban, William H.,

pension increased..

1556

Albany, Ga.,

acquiring site and erecting public building 1

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for..

792, 1295

Albany Power and Manufacturing Company, may dam, etc. , Flint River at Porter

Shoals, Ga...

878

Albany Railroad Bridge Company

may reconstruct bridge across Mississippi

River, Clinton, Iowa....

879

Albemarle Sound, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of water

route from Norfolk, Va. , to ......

1083

Albemarle Street NW. , D. C.,

condemnation proceedings for extending.. 1225

appropriation for..

1226

deficiency appropriation for extending... 641

Albert, John,

pension increased..

1834

Albertson, Ambrose D. ,

pension increased .

2362

Albuquerque, Ariz. , terms of court ..

Page. 283

Albuquerque, N. Mex., appropriation for Indian school ..

358, 1040

construction of public building authorized

at...

777

appropriation for..

791

lands granted to, for public park, etc.

227

Alcohol (see also Denatured Alcohol),

transfer without payment of tax to central

denaturing bonded warehouses ..... 1250 Alcoholic Liquors,

provisions against traffic in constitution of

Oklahoma..

269

Alden, Charles H.,

pension increased .

2722

Alden, Emily J. (widow),

pension..

1937

Alden, John A.,

pension increased ..

2143

Alpdeenns,ioWnililnicarmeasSeedy.mour,

2645

Alderman, Jesse,

pension increased .

1828

Aldred, Emma (widow),

pension..

1534

Aldrich, Julia G. (widow),

pension..

1781

Aldrich, Lumbard B.,

pension increased .

1492

Aldrich, Truman,

pension increased .

1906

Ale,

constitutional restrictions of sale, etc., in

Oklahoma..

269

Alexander, George B. D.,

pension increased..

1792

Alexander Place, D. C.,

vacation of; reversion ..

885

Alexander, Rebecca A. (widow),

pension increased..

2143

Alexander, Thomas C. ,

pension increased .

2054

Alexandretta, Syria,

classification and salary of consul............

100

Alexandria, Minn.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

779

appropriation for.. Algeciras, International Conference,

793, 1295

general act for reforms in Morocco, con-

cluded at..

2905

Alger, Russell A. , late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow. 1394

Algiers, Africa,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Algiers Naval Station, La. (see New Orleans).

Algoma (Ahnapee) , Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1101

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made ..

1118

Alien Contract Labor,

excluded from admission..

899

importation of, unlawful ; penalty..

900

Alienation Restrictions, Indians,

continuing after expiration of trust period . 326 not applicable to Indian Territory lands . 326

Aliens (see also, Citizenship and Immigration

Act) ,

appropriation for exclusion of, detrimental

to labor conditions ...

1330

provisions for naturalization of.

596

fishing in Alaskan waters by, prohibited ,

except by rod , etc ..

264 .

regulations of immigration of..

898

3316

INDEX.

Aliens Continued . classes excluded ..

Page. 898

deportation of, illegally arriving .

904

illegally entered, etc ..

904

found in violation of law.

905

entering, except at sea ports or designated

prace unlawful ; "deportation ....... 908

All Souls Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded .

869

Allbright, Samuel,

pension increased..

1812

Allee, Mildred L. (widow) ,

pension increased..

2622

Allegheny County, Pa.,

may bridge Allegheny River, from Oak-

mont to Hulton Ferry..

848

Allegheny River, Pa.,

appropriation for improvement of, at Herr

Island dam..

738

Dams Nos. 2 and 3 .

1081

bridge authorized across, by Armstrong

County, Pa....

1234

Oakmont to Hulton Ferry.

848

Allen, Andrew P.,

pension increased ..

1779

Allen, Carrie May (daughter),

pension...

2769

Allen, Charles L.,

duplicate bond issued to.....

1940

Allen, David H. ,

pension increased ..

1798

Allen, Delight A. (widow),

pension increased...

1856

Allen, Ethan,

pension increased..

1903

Allen, George H.,

pension increased .

2698

Allen, Henry,

pension increased .

1464

Allen, Hiram W.,

appropriation for payment to widow ; con-

dition...

350

Allen, James L.,

pension increased .

2294

Allen, Joseph H.,

pension increased .

1921

Allen, Josiah F.,

pension increased .

1751

Allen, Lissie D. (widow) ,

pension increased..

2500

Allen, Mary E: (widow),

pension increased..

2421

Allen, Nancy N. (widow) ,

pension increased...

1814

Allen, Rachel (widow),

pension increased .

2043

Allen, Rufus C..

pension increased :.

2263

Allentown, Pa..

appropriation for public building.

697

limit of cost increased , public building..

773

appropriation for..

789

Alley, Shadrack H. J.,

pension increased .

2592

Alleys, D. C.,

appropriation for grading.

490, 1128

for condemnation, etc.

491, 1128

for opening, etc., reimbursement .. 491, 1128

for repairs...

492, 1129

deficiency appropriation for condemning,

Ingleside..

643

Allhands, Mary J. (undow),

pension increased..

1591

Alus-Chalmers Company,

refund of penalty..

2314

Allis, Farrie M. (widow),

Page.

pension increased...

1736

Allison, George W.,.

pension increased .

1689

Allison, John H.,

pension increased .

2260

Allison, Joseph M.,

pension increased .

1944

Allotment in Severalty to Indians (see Lands in

Severalty to Indians) .

Alloway Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of, restric-

tion ..

1080

Allyn, Lucie A. (widow),

pension increased...

2766

Almshouse, D. C. (see Washington Asylum) .

Alpena, Mich. , appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1097

acquiring site and erecting public building

at .

779

appropriation for .

793, 1295

Alspach, Henry W.,

pension increased..

2490

Alspaugh, John,

military record corrected ..

2153

Alsup, John F.,

pension increased .

1934

Altamaha River, Ga. ,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1085

Alton, Ill.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for.

792, 1295

Alva, Okla. ,

act of legislature appropriating for North-

western Normal School at, ratified.. 454

Alves, John,

pension increased ..

1595

Ambassadors, appropriation for salaries..

286, 916

not to be paid officials receiving other

salaries ...

287, 917

Ambrose Channel, New York Harbor,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ..

736, 1077, 1344

suction dredges .

1077

for light-vessel..

1317

additional lights for; vessel at sea entrance. 322

light-house Staten Island , and raising

West Bank light .....

322

two range lights on the bend .

moving North Hook beacon light.

tank light-vessel .

gas illuminant beacon, Craven Shoal ..

gas buoys....

322.

temporary structures for West Bank

and North Hook lights .

322

appropriation for.

710, 711

vessels of deep draft may be restricted to

daylight navigation ...

1077

Amburn, Allen,

pension increased .......

1449

Amell, Josephine, Indian Allottee.

fee-simple title to..

357

Amende, Frederick A. ,

pension increased....

1603

America, Settlement of,

invitation to foreign nations to participate

in tercentenary of, by English-

speaking people at Jamestown, Va. 2997

American Cross of Honor. D. C. , The,

incorporated ; purposes, etc...

161

American Ephemeris, Nautical Almanac and,

appropriation for preparing...

425, 971

INDEX.

3317

American Ethnology,

Page.

appropriation for researches..

704, 1310

for protecting Casa Grande Ruin, Ariz .. 1310

for printing and binding reports and

bulletins...

760, 1367

American Historical Association,

appropriation for printing and binding

Annual Report.

760, 1367

American National Bank, Bluefield, W. Va. , removal from Graham, Va. , to, authorized . 13

American National Bank, Graham , Va.,

authorized to move to Bluefield, W. Va.' ;

proceedings..

13

American Philosophical Society,

additional Franklin medals for, authorized. 615

American Register,

gra66nted " Homeward Bound," bark..

808

'Marie," steamer..

881

"Mariechen," bark.

1251

"Success," steamer..

881

"Waturus," steam yacht .

799

American Republics,

deficiency appropriation for expenses,

third International Conference...

118

treaty between, for arbitration of pecuniary

claims...

2845

American Republics , International Bureau of,

appropriation for expenses.

291, 921

for site and contribution to building for. 758

American Seamen,

appropriation for life-saving testimonials,

rescuing shipwrecked .. for relief and protection of..

290, 919 295, 925

deficiency appropriation for relief, etc. ,

of...

27, 667, 1405

for services to vessels and .

48, 667, 1403

American Vessels,

deficiency appropriation for services to,

and seamen........

48, 667, 1403

Americus, Ga.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized

778

appropriation for..

792, 1295

Ames, Elizabeth A. (widow), pension..

2164

Ames, Hugh F.,

pension increased .

2051

Amis, James F.,

pension increased .

1948

Amite River, La.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1089

Ammunition, Army, appropriation for small arms. for artillery

257, 474 463, 1059, 1060

for practice..

463, 1060

for altering to rapid-fire field material .. 1060

for seacoast cannon, insular possessions . 1061

Amos, Joseph,

pension increased ..

2333

Amoy, China,

classification and salary of consul .....

99

Amsterdam, N. Y.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for.

795

Amsterdam, Netherlands,

classification and salary of consul .

99

Anacostia and Potomac River Railroad,

to pay part of cost of new bridge and

approaches..

493

change of line authorized

493

removal of old tracks ; paving..

493

underground conduits, etc. , when

notified .....

494

additional payment toward cost of bridge . 494

VOL XXXIV, PT 346

66 888888

Anacostia Bridge, D. C.,
appropriation for reconstructing .. for approaches... condemnation of land for extending Monroe street ...
contract for constructing approaches, etc.
expense payable by Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
proceedings to enforce .. street railroad to pay part of cost of
bridge , etc.. extension of tracks .

Page. 492 492
492
493
493 493
493 493

for operating; time extended for com-

pleting..

1130

Anacostia River, D. C.,

appropriation for improvement of ...

1082

report from Commissioners of District of

Columbia directed , on improving

flats of.

2829

Anahauc Channel, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1091 Anarchists, etc.,

admission of alien , excluded .

899

naturalization denied to...

598

not permitted to enter United States .... 908

penalty for aiding unlawful entrance ... 909

Anchorage Regulations, New York, etc.,
appropriation for enforcing... Anclote River, Fla. ,

702, 1309

appropriation for improvement of........ 1086

Anderson, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

2245

Anderson, Charles M.,

appointed on Board of Managers, Volun-

teer Soldiers' Home..

828

Anderson, Elizabeth A. ( widow),

pension increased..

2104

Anderson, Emma C. (widow), pension..

1672

Anderson, Francis, pension increased .

1 2366

Anderson, George,

pension increased .

2327

Anderson Guaranty and Trust Company,

may dam Savannah River at McDaniel

Shoals ..

1238

Middleton Shoals.

1239

Turner Shoals..

1239

Anderson, John C.,

pension increased .

1790

Anderson, John H. ,

pension increased .

2068

Anderson, Samuel F. ,

pension increased ..

2324

Anderson, S. C. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

781

appropriation for.... Anderson, William E.,
pension increased .

793, 1295 1848

Anderson, William H.,

pension increased ..

2286

Anderson, William Oliver,

pension increased .

2541

Andersonville Shoals,

dam, etc. , authorized across Savannah

River at.....

1240

Andrew, Elias,

pension increased .

2016

Andrews, Albert C.,

pension increased .

1649

Andrews, Benjamin F.

pension increased ..

2166

3318

INDEX .

Andrews, J. F., and others, may construct dams, etc. , across Bear
River, Tishomingo County, Miss .... Andrews, Oscar,
pension increased .... Andrews, Samuel L.,
pension increased .

Page. 929 2628 1550

Ange, Louise, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

374

Angel, David,

pension increased .

2472

Angel Island, Cal., appropriation for immigrant station ....... 710

Angle, William,

deficiency appropriation for moiety, im-

migration law fine

660

Animal Breeding and Feeding,

appropriation for experiments in ..

674, 1260

Animal Industry Bureau, Department of

Agriculture, appropriation for salaries..

672, 1258

for general expenses.. for quarantine districts .

673, 1259 673, 1259

for horse inspection ...

673, 1259

for collecting information of cattle dis-

eases, etc ...

673, 1259

for suppressing contagious diseases of

live stock...

673, 1259

for experiment station , Bethesda, Md . 673, 1259

for quarantine stations, etc.; leaves of

absence...

673, 1259

for inspection, etc. , of dairy products for

export..

674, 1259

for instructions to dairy industry in

Southern States ...

674

for investigating infectious diseases of

domestic animals, Minnesota, etc. 674, 1260

for purchase oftuberculin serums, etc. 674, 1260

for experiments in breeding and feed-

ing...

674, 1260

for interstate, etc. , meat and meat ani-

mal inspection...

674, 1260

for emergency fund, southern cattle fever

ticks ...

696, 1281

deficiency appropriation for meat and pork

inspection..

42

for expenses.

48, 669, 1403

Animals (see also Cattle),

appropriations for suppressing diseases

of...

673, 1259

Animals, D. C. , Wild,

prohibition of unauthorized hunting, etc.. 808 Animals in Interstate Transit,

conveying, more than 28 hours without un-

loading, forbidden ..

607

express and car companies and common

carriers included ..

607

extension permitted...

608

estimating time; provision for sheep .

608

feeding and watering, when unloaded.

608

by owner, or carrier.

608

lien, etc., if by carrier..

608

owner or shipper may furnish food .

608

penalty for noncompliance ; recovery .

608

provisions not applicable if proper food,

opportunity for rest, etc., afforded

on car, etc.

608

former laws repealed .

608

Ann Arbor, Mich. ,

construction of public building authorized

at .

777

appropriation for. Annaberg, Germany,
classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire...

791, 1295
99 294, 924

Annapolis , Md. (see Naval Academy).

Pige.

Anpaodutawin, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

374

Anshutz, Henry T. ,

pension increased .

1507

Anslow, John,

pension increased .

2454

Anthony, Charles H. ,

pension increased .

2459

Anthony, John E.,

pension increased .

2691

Anthony, John L.,

pension increased .

2272

Antietam Battlefield, Md.,

appropriation for care, etc ..

741, 1346

Antigua, West Indies, classification and salary of consul ........ 100

Antiquities, American,

penalty for unauthorized excavating, etc. ,

on public lands .

225

lands containing, to be set apart by procla-

mation...

225

relinquishment of private claims.

225

issue of permits to excavate, etc..

225

preservation of objects in public muse-

ums..

225

regulations to be published .

225

Antitrust Laws,

appropriation for enforcing.. balances available..

705, 752, 1359 705

for enforcing.....

752, 1359

deficiency appropriation for examinations

into violations of..

119

immunity of witnesses in cases under.

798

Antrim, Jeremiah Y. ,

pension increased ..

2187

Antwerp, Belgium, classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire...

293, 924

Apache, etc., Indian Reservations, Okla.,

proclamation opening to homestead entry

pasture and wood reserves in ..

3233

Apache, etc., Indians, Ariz . and N. Mex.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of; balance

available..

332, 1021

deficiency appropriation for.

47

Apache, etc. , Indians, Okla., appropriation for support, etc., of... 361 , 1043

Apache Indians, Okla., town sites set aside on the common lands of. 80

Apalachicola Bay, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1086

Apalachicola River, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1087

Apgar, George M.,

pension increased ..

1796

Apia, Samoan Islands,

classification and salary of consul .

99

Appalachian Mountains, Southern,"
appropriation for survey, etc., and report on watersheds, as a forest reserve... 1281
Appanoose County, Iowa, transferred from southern to eastern divi-

sion , southern judicial district ...... 127

Appeals, Interlocutory Orders ,

may be taken to circuit court of appeals;

effect, etc...

116

Appleton, Wis.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for.

796

Appliances for Disabled Soldiers,
appropriation for furnishing. Appomattox River, Va. ,
appropriation for improvement of .

745, 1350 .... 1082

INDEX

3319

Appoquinimink River, Del. ,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of......... 1081

Appraisers, Customs, appropriation for meetings of local.... 708, 1315

deficiency appropriation for meetings of

local ...

28

additional assistants, at New York .

874

special deputy, and deputies authorized;

duties

874

salary of, Chicago, fixed ..

763

at New York, increased..

1373

Appropriation Bills, General,

F committees reporting, to follow order of

year preceding..

448

Appropriations (see also Deficiency Appro-

priations ),

appropriation for preparing statement

of...

759, 1364

for general deficiencies.

634, 1371

for urgent deficiencies .

27, 118, 841, 885

United States courts, and opening Indian

reservations ....

205

for pensions.... for the support of the Army... for diplomatic and consular service .. for Indian Department...

133, 1406 240, 1158 286, 916 325 , 1015

for legislative, executive, and judicial ex-

penses...

389, 935

for fortifications ..

462, 1058

for postal service.

467, 1205

for District of Columbia.

482, 1119

for the Military Academy .

521, 1063

for the naval service....

553, 1176

for Department of Agriculture .

669, 1256

for sundry civil expenses..

697, 1295

for public buildings, sites, construction,

etc ....

789

for river and harbor improvements.

1073

expenses in excess of, forbidden..

49

* * ** ** * * * * 88 £

voluntary, or service in excess of, au-

thorized, forbidden....

49

for contingent expenses, etc. , to be allotted

to prevent deficiencies...

49

written waiver only in unforeseen emer-

gencies; report....

49

punishment for violation.

49

estimates for regular, to follow arrangement

of previous year..

448

changes to be submitted by notes...

448

committees reporting, to follow order of

preceding year...

448

annual estimates to include all require-

ments ....

448

restriction on additional or special rc-

quests.....

449

specific terms required in any act to carry. 764

annual, for State and Territorial experiment

stations increased ..

63

for militia increased .

449

permanent annual, for education of the

blind .

460

for meat inspection expenses..

679

for minor coinage metal, increased

132

for damages extending Rhode Island ave-

nue, D. C.

16

for condemnation expenses, extending

Rhode Island avenue, D. C ....

17

for damages extension of Euclid street ,

D. C...:

238.

for expenses extending Euclid street, D. C. 238

for condemnation, expenses, etc. , extension,

of Kalorama road..

616

widening Bladensburg road , D. C.

844

extending Seventh, Sixth, and, Franklin

streets NE. , D. C ...

844

Appropriations -Continued , appropriation for widening Columbia road, D. C .....

extending Second and W streets NW. , D. C ..

extending Meridian place NW . , D. C.

extending Geneseo place and Summit place, D. C.....
extending Twenty-third street NW.. D. C ..

opening Macomb street NW. , D. C
extending Seventeenth street NW ., D. §. . opening highway Water Side drive to

Park road, D. C ... extending Fessenden street NW., D. C.. extending Kenyon street NW. , D. C. extending Harvard street NW. , D. C ... extending Fourth street NE. , D. C extending School street, D. C ..

opening Warren and Forty-sixth streets NW., D. C........
opening parkway to Rock Creek Park from Sixteenth street, D. C ....
extending T street NW. , D. C ....

extending New Hampshire avenue, D. C extending Forty-fifth street NW. , D. C .. extending W and Adams streets NW. ,
D. C......

extending Park place NW,, D. C .. extending Monroe street , D. C extending Albemarle street, D. C opening Mills avenue, D. C... for Isthmian Canal...

for purchase of coal claims, Batan Island, Philippines....
for marking graves of Confederates who died in Northern hospitals or prisons
for expenses, opening Colville Indian Reservation, Wash....

for bridge across Tongue River, Fort
Keogh, Mont...
· for reclassifying public lands in Alabama.. for purchase of four field guns, etc. , from Connecticut ...

for puebxlpic crematorium, D. C...

for

appraising, etc., part of

Brule Reservation ..

for improving mouth of Columbia River. Oreg. and Wash...

for bringing home remains of naval officers, etc., dying abroad...

for naval and postal service, San Francisco earthquake...
for expenses denatured alcohol act..

for monument to Commodore John Barry.. battlefield of Princeton, N. J.. to John Paul Jones...

landing of the Pilgrims, etc. , Provincetown, Mass..

for per capita, Fox and Sac Indians, Rich-

ardson County, Nebr .... for drainage assessments, Fox and Sac In-
dians, Richardson County, Nebr ...

for drainage assessments, lands of Iowas, Richardson County, Nebr ....
for Oklahoma election and constitutional convention expenses..

for common schools , Oklahoma, in lieu of

Indian Territory lands.. for benefit of common schools, Arizona... for Arizona election and constitutional con-
vention expenses...

for Kings Mountain battle ground monument...
for national quarantine expenses..

Page.
845
845 846
846
847 853 855
855 856 856 857 857 882
994
1001 1001 1004 1005
> 1008 1012 1222 1226 1244
5
23
56
82
88 88
106 124
125
131
132
168 218 224 224 224
225
263
263
263
271
272 282
285
286 301

3320

INDEX .

Appropriations-Continued . for traveling expenses of the President.... for 5 per cent of proceeds of public lands, to California for common schools .... for expenses, naturalization act ; restriction removed .. for lands in Utah from Le Grand Young.. for medals to volunteers serving beyond enlistment, to suppress Philippine insurrection ....
for damages, change of grade, etc. , on line of Philadelphia, Baltimore and
Washington Railroad , Washington , D. C. , from District revenues . for expenses, preservation of Niagara Falls, etc. for expenses Government exhibit. James-
town Exposition ............. for buildings, Government exhibit , James-
town Exposition... for piers and basin for small craft, James-
town Exposition.... for aid to Jamestown Exposition Company. for permanent pier, Jamestown Island ;
present pier. for policing, accommodation of visitors,
etc. , Jamestown Island .. for exhibit of progress of negro race, James-
town Exposition... for expenses, New York postal situation
commission ...
for relief of sufferers, San Francisco earth-
quake and conflagration...... made available for medical supplies for further relief of earthquake sufferers ;
extra expenses .... for preparing site, etc. , Longfellow statue. for commission on Delaware and Chesa-
peake Canal... for Digest of Customs Laws and Decisions . for additional expenses, Interstate Com-
merce Commission.. for transfer of school fund Saint Helena and
Saint Luke parishes to South Carolina ....
for customs boarding boat, Galveston, Tex . for refund of certain internal-revenue
taxes . for expenses Rosebud Indian Reservation
lands ..
for monument to Commodore Sloat, Monterey, Cal....
for immigrant station, New Orleans, La.. for monument, Tippecanoe battle ground,
Ind ..... for monument at Chalmette, La. , to com-
memorate battle of New Orleans, 1812 ..... for immigrant station at Galveston, Tex . for Columbus Memorial.. for immigrant station, Charleston, S. C. for site , etc., Stephenson Grand Army Memorial, D. C ..
Aqueduct Bridge, D. C., appropriation for reconstructing pier No. 1 ; balances for repairs, etc ..

Page. 454 518 606 613
621
625 628 764 765 765 766 766 766 767 786 827 827 828 830 835 840 840
893 1011 1221 1231 1408 1409 1410
1411 1412 1413 1415 1424
1130

Aqueduct, Washington (see Washington Aqueduct ) .

Aquia Creek, Va . , preliminary examination of, to be made.. 1117

Aransas Pass, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ....

737, 1091

Aransas Pass, Tex. -Continued .

Page.

appropriation for improvement of Turtle

Cove channel to Corpus Christi, from ;

contracts

1091

for improvement of inland waterway to

Pass Cavallo ; contracts ..

1091

Arapaho and Cheyenne Indians, Okla., appropriation for support, etc. , of.......... 362, 1043

Arapaho Indians, Northern Cheyenne and,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with. 354, 1035

Arbitration,

appropriation for expenses of, railway em-

ployees' differences...

705, 1311

international treaty for submitting pecun-

iary claims to.

2845

Arbitration, International Bureau, Permanent Court of,

appropriation for share of expenses...... 291 , 921 Arcadia, Mich.,
appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1097

Archæological Institute of America, D. C.,

incorporated; powers and duties ...

203

Archer, Howard William (son) ,

pension...

2387

Archer, Martha G. (widow),

pension increased ..

1560

Archquette, William, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to.
Archuleta, Antonio,
pension.. Ardmore, Okla.,
terms of court .

381 2485 275

Arey, Henry,

pension increased .

2458

Argentine Republic, appropriation for minister to .
for secretary of legation....

286, 916 287, 917

Arid Lands, Nebr., provisions for entry of, extended ..

..... 1224

Arizona Eastern Judicial District,

created; to comprise present Territory of

New Mexico ....

283

judge, attorney, marshal, and clerk to be

appointed ...

283

court at Albuquerque ; attached to ninth

circuit....

283

Arizona, State of, inhabitants of Arizona and New Mexico

Territories may form....

278

constitutional convention; apportionment

of delegates..

278

question of united statehood submitted .. 278

if each Territory is in favor, State may

be admitted

278

if either Territory opposes, measure fails . 278

proclamations by governors for election... 278

conduct of election ; returns ...

279

if result in Arizona favorable, returns to

be sent to Santa Fe .....

279

if result in New Mexico also favorable,

convention to be called .....

279

powers, etc., of convention ; qualifica-

tions of voters ..

279

meeting of convention at Santa Fe ; date ;

duties ..

279

adoption of Constitution of the United

States; general principles.....

279

constitutional provisions required ; relig-

ious freedom...

279

polygamy, and giving, etc. , Indians

liquor, prohibited

279

disclaimer as to public and Indian lands. 279

equality of taxes on property of nonresi-

dents ...

279

INDEX.

3321

Arizona, State of-Continued . constitutional provisions required; exemption of Government and Indian lands exception if Indians hold in fee
simple.. assuming debts of Territories.

Page.
280
280 280

maintenance of nonsectarian public

schools in English.....

280

other languages may be taught....

280

right of suffrage; qualification for office. 280

capital at Santa Fe till 1915 ..

280

submission of constitution to people ; time

of election...

280

canvass of returns; canvassing board ..

280

certificate if adopted..

280

proclamation by the President.

280

admission as State....

281

deposit of constitution, etc...

281

two Representatives and State officers to be

elected when constitution is voted

on ...

281

grant of sections 13 , 16, 33, and 36 for com-

mon schools; indemnity selections .. 281

lands excluded ; preservation of Casa

Grande, etc....

281

control of excluded lands; process ,

etc. , permitted.....

281

indemnity selections..

282

grant for public buildings and payment of

bonds ...

282

university lands to Arizona Territory vested

in State....

282

additional grant; sectarian institutions

excluded ...

282

Territorial grants confirmed to State...

282

permanent school fund from 5 per cent of

sales of public lands in....

.282

appropriation for common schools .

282

investment of fund ...

282

disposal of educational lands; leases .

282

lands in lieu of internal improvements and

swamp-land grants ....

283

allotment; appropriations for agricultu-

ral, etc., colleges continued ..

283

commission to select granted lands .

283

mineral lands excepted from grants; in-

demnity selections ..

283

eastern and western judicial districts cre-

ated ; boundaries...

283

courts at Albuquerque and Phoenix .

283

attached to ninth círcuit..

283

officers, terms, etc .....

283

jurisdiction, etc. , of courts and officials . 284

determination of pending appeals, etc .. 284

succession of courts..

284

transfer of pending Federal cases ; other

cases ..

284

constitutional convention to provide for

election of full State government,

etc ....

285

Congressional districts .

285

State government in abeyance till admis-

sion...

285

legislature to assemble and elect Senators

if constitution ratified ...

285

certifying election of Senators and Repre-

sentatives...

285

operation of State government, laws, etc .. 285

appropriation for election and convention

expenses ; excess by State ....

285

Arizona Territory,

appropriation for salaries, government in 416, 963

for contingent expenses..

416, 963

for legislative expenses...

416, 963

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc ...... 434, 980

Arizona Territory-Continued . appropriation for Indian service in

Page. 332, 1021

for support, etc., of Apaches, etc. , in New

Mexico and

332, 1021

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in ..

332, 1021

deficiency appropriation for western Navajo

Indian school ..

38

for additional associate justice..

41

for Indians, New Mexico and

47

for prosecuting Indians in...

1403

act of legislature for bridge at Florence

ratified ..

1054

allotment to Indians on Moqui Indian

Reservation...

1021

assumption of debts. etc. , by State .

280

Baboquivari Forest Reserve, established .. 3251

Black Mesa Forest Reserve, boundaries

enlarged..

3218

Chiricahua Forest Reserve, enlarged .

3244

claims for prosecution of Indians to be ex-

amined ..

1376

Grand Cañon Forest Reserve, area ex-

tended ...

3009

Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, area modi-

fied ..

3223

declared a game preserve..

3263

Huachuca Forest Reserve , established. 3255

Montezuma National Monument set apart . 3265

Petrified Forest National Monument set

apart..

3266

Phoenix, authorized to purchase plant of

Phoenix Water Company..

1414

Pinal Mountains Forest Reserve, estab-

lished ..

2991

quorum of justices of supreme court when

two or more are disqualified .

466

resurvey of certain townships in.

726

rights of way of railroads through lands re-

served for, confirmed ..

481

lands to be disposed of subject to ease-

ment ...

481

Tonto Forest Reserve, established .

3166

Tumacacori Forest Reserve, established ... 3263

Arizona Western Judicial District,

created; to comprise present Arizona Ter-

ritory..

283

judge, attorney, marshal , and clerk to be

appointed..

283

court at Phoenix ; attached to ninth cir-

cuit ..

283

Arkansas,

bridges authorized across Ouachita, etc. ,

rivers in.....

1

Arkansas, Louisiana and Gulf Railway Company,

may bridge Bayou Bartholomew, La ...... 1003 Arkansas River,

appropriation for improvement of; appor-

tionment .....

1092

examination at Muscogee , etc ..

1092

bridge authorized across, at Pine Bluff,

Ark.....

50

Van Buren, Ark

21

grant of Royal Gorge Canon , to Canon City,

Colo ..

238

Arkansas Western Judicial District,

transfer of civil cases to divisions of, per-

mitted ....

206

criminal cases to Fort Smith from other

divisions allowed in certain cases.. 207

Arlington National Cemetery, Va.,

appropriation for burial of indigent soldiers

in....

740, 1346

for expenses; new stable ..

741

3322 .

INDEX.

Arlington National Cemetery , Va . -Cont'd. Page.

appropriation for improving addition to... 1347

Arlington, Va. ,

appropriation for experimental farm . , 680, 1266

Armament of Fortifications, 1

appropriation for..

463, 1059

Armell, Louis, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

356

Armistead, John G. H.,

pension increased .

2322

Armor and Armament, Navy,

appropriation for new vessels , of domestic

manufacture .

583, 1204

restriction on contracts..

583

Armories (see Arsenals and Armories).

Arms, Alice A. (urdow), pension increased .
Arms, Ammunition, etc., proclamation prohibiting export to Santo Domingo of..
Armstrong, Andrew J., pension increased
Armstrong, Charles H., appropriation for..
Armstrong County, Pa. , bridge authorized across Allegheny River, by..
Armstrong, Hiram F., pension increased
Armstrong, John, pension increased .
Armstrong, Maynard C. , Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed ..
Armstrong Thomas, pension increased ..
Army (see also War Department) ,

1829
3183 2532 351
1234 1430 1429 346 2001

appropriation for support of the.. for all contingencies..

240, 1158 240, 1158

for Army War College.

240, 1158

for contingent expenses, military infor-

mation division .. for military service schools .

240, 1158 240, 1158

for contingent expenses, military de-

partments, etc..

240, 1158

Military Secretary's Department to

be Adjutant-General's Department ;

title of officers ..

1158

for submarine defense school .

240, 1159

for signal service expenses..

241, 1159

maintenance of telegraph lines and

cables ...

241 , 1159

extension of Alaska lines from receipts ;

estimates ..

241, 1159

for pay of line officers; longevity.. 241, 1159

assignment of pay accounts per-

mitted ..

241 , 1159

office of Lieutenant-General to cease

on vacancy; retired list not affected . 1160 allowances for service at Jamestown

Exposition...

1160

for pay of enlisted men .

241, 1160

extra to expert riflemen, sharpshooters ,

and marksmen .

241

deduction from retired enlisted men

for Soldiers' Home repealed ....

242

noncommissioned officers, etc. , for re-

cruit and prison companies............ 1160

for longevity...

242, 1160

detachment for recruiting depots and

prisons ....

242

for Engineer battalion. for Ordnance Corps ..

242, 1160 242, 1160

for quartermaster-sergeants ..

242, 1160

for post commissary-sergeants..

242, 1160

for electricians, Artillery Corps ......... . ... ... ... ...... 242

Army-Continued .

Pag .

appropriation for Signal Corps

242, 1160

for Hospital Corps.

243, 1161

for clerks, messengers, etc. , at head-

quarters..

243, 1161

for pay of staff, etc. , officers ; Military Sec-

retary's Department ; longevity.. 243, 1161

promotion of major......

1161

Inspector-General's Department ; lon-

gevity ..

244, 1161

Engineer Corps ; longevity .

244, 1162

Ordnance Department; longevity.. 244, 1162

Quartermaster's Department; longev-

ity

244, 1162

Subsistence Department ; 1 »>ngevity 244, 1162

Medical Department ; longevity... 244, 1162

Pay Department ; longevity!:

244, 1162

Judge - Advocate - General's Depart-

ment; longevity ...

244, 1162

Signal Corps.

244, 1162

Bureau of Insular Affairs; detail .

1162

for retired pay, officers ; longevity ... 245, 1162

pay of colonels and lieutenant-colonels

on active duty...

245

limitation on retirement of officers

above colonels ..

245

brigadier-generals with civil war serv-

ice to be retired as major-generals;

condition ....

1163

for retired pay, enlisted men .

245, 1163

for hospital matrons; nurses for veterinarians ; longevity . for dental surgeons... for contract surgeons..

245, 1163 245, 1163 245, 1163 245, 1163

for paymasters' clerks and messengers . 245, 1163

traveling expenses.. for courts-martial, etc. , expenses

245, 1163 245, 1163

*for officer in charge public buildings and

grounds, D. C ..

245, 1163

for commutation of quarters, officers .. 245, 1163

for travel allowance, enlisted men on

discharge..

245, 1163

for undrawn clothing, enlisted men .. 245, 1163

for interest on soldiers ' deposits... 245 , 1163

transfer of fund for back deposits .

245

soldiers' savings to be a separate fund ;

repayment....

246

clothing balances to be paid from reg-

ular pay fund..

246

for translator, etc. , military informa-

tion....

246, 1163

for expert accountant .

246, 1163

for extra-duty pay, enlisted men artillery

and ordnance service ..

246

for extra-duty pay, enlisted men artil-

lery and ordnance service, at sea-

coast fortifications ...

1163

switch-board operators at posts ..

1163

for mileage, officers and contract sur-

geons ....

246, 1163

allowance; transportation requests.

246

travel over land-grant roads...

246

deduction from mileage when traveling

on transportation orders, etc...

247

when station of officer is changed while

on leave...

247

sea-travel allowances ; restriction ...... 247

for 20 per cent, enlisted men; computa-

tions ...

... 247, 1164

for 10 per cent, officers; computations . 247, 1164

availability of current appropriations. 247

for computer, artillery board .... 247, 1164

for loss by exchange, disbursements

abroad..

247, 1164

INDEX .

3323

Army-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for subsistence, etc. , National

Guard officers attending' army

schools ..

1164

for Porto Rico Provisional Regiment . 247, 1164

for Philippine Scouts...

248, 1164

allowance for service by men in Reg-

ular Army..

248

division of annual and monthly com-

pensation....

248

all above, except mileage, to be ac-

counted as pay of the Army...... 248, 1164

for encampments of militia with regu-

lars ..

247, 1164

payments to militia after muster.

249

for flags for decorating graves Memorial

Day...

1165

for claims for damages, war with Spain,

etc

1165

for Subsistence Department ; supplies . 249, 1165

emergency ration ....

1165

extra-duty pay; civilian employees . 249, 1165

for commutation of rations, etc ....... 249, 1165

useof disbursing funds for paying small

amounts .....

1166

for transport service ; special diet rations,

ice, etc....

250, 1166

for prizes for bakers and cooks.

250, 1166

for Quartermaster's Department ; regular

supplies.....

250, 1166

post bakeries ; ice machines ; laun-

dries; schools, etc ..

253, 1166

forage; stationery.. fuel to officers ....

250, 1166 250

heat and light to officers..

1167

printing; use of ice machines, etc .. 250, 1167

for equipment of post schools .

251, 1167

for incidental expenses

251, 1167

extra-duty pay; interments . horse expenditures....

251, 1167 252, 1168

for horses; purchases at posts...... 252, 1168

use of Fort Keogh Reservation, Mont. ,

forhorse breeding station.....

252

for barracks and quarters..

252, 1168

extra-duty pay ..

252, 1168

assignment of rooms to officers; com-

mutation ..

1168

civilian employees ; limitation .. for additional land, Texas..

252, 1169 252

Fort Taylor, Key West, Fla ..

1169

permit for embankment, etc., Key

West, Fla...

1169

for post exchanges .. Presidio of San Francisco, Cal.

253, 1169 253

for transportation... division of estimates..

253, 1169 1169

transport service ; sale restricted ... 253, 1170

on land-grant roads ...

253, 1170

restriction on use of transports ,. 254, 1170

leaves of officers in the Philippines . 1171

for roads, etc. , in Alaska ..

254, 1171

for shelter in the Philippines...

254, 1171

for clothing and camp and garrison equi-

page

254, 1171

indemnity for destroyed clothing.. 254, 1171

for post hospitals, construction , repairs,

etc ...

254, 1171

Fort D. A. Russell, Wyo. , Columbus

Barracks, Ohio, and Jefferson Bar-

racks, Mo ....

{ 255

treatment of Navy and Marine Corps

at Fort Bayard, N. Mex ....! .

1172

for quarters, hospital stewards ..

255, 1172

for shooting ranges, etc ..

255, 1172

Army-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for Army War College , main-

tenance .

255, 1172

forMedical Department ; supplies, etc. 255, 1172

preventing spread of epidemics.... 255, 1172 limitation on all Government con-

tracts

255

rules for patients, Fort Bayard , N.

Mex .

255

use of fund from sales of supplies ..

256

care of insane in Philippines ..

1173

Medical Museum ; library..

256, 1173

for Engineer Department ; expenses,

etc ..

256, 1173

school, Washington, D. C.;
ings.. chaplain authorized .

build256, 1173 256

equipment of troops . services ..

256, 1174 257, 1174

for Ordnance Department; expenses , 257, 1174

for ammunition for small arms, etc ... 257, 1174

for firing morning and evening gun.. 257, 1174

for small -arms target practice; marks-

men's medals, prizes, etc..

257, 1174

for field artillery for militia ; balances

available ..

257, 1174

for manufacture, etc. , of arms.

257, 1174

furnishing militia with new type of

small arm..

1174

for repairing and preserving ordnance

stores ..

257, 1175

for ordnance stores ..

257, 1175

for infantry, etc. , equipments .. for Benicia Arsenal, Cal...

257, 1175 257

for general depot , Fort Mason, Cal.; con-

struction contracts ....

257

for annual rifle contests, trophy, etc. 258, 1175

for fire control, field batteries ...

1175

ordnance appropriations available for

two years..

1175

for meetings, National Board for Promo-

tion of Rifle Practice .....

258

use of funds from stores, etc. , trans-

ferred to Philippines ....

258

expenses of procuring ordnance stores ;

reimbursement ...

258

purchase of supplies, etc. , in open mar-

ket; limit....

258

for marking, etc., graves of soldiers and

sailors, Crab Island, Lake Cham-

plain...

258

for road, etc., Balls Bluff cemetery, Va.;

acceptance of land ...

258

for reservation, Nahant, Mass ..

259

for road to cemetery, Salisbury, N. C... 259 for monument, etc. , Moores Creek, N. C.. 259

acceptance of burial place of Andrew

Johnson as national cemetery .

259

for road to Fredericksburg national ceme-

tery, Va .....

259

for marking places where soldiers fell in

Cuba and China..

1175

loan of tents, etc. , for Jamestown Ex-

position...

1175

loan of tents, etc. , for Kingston suffer-

ers ratified..

1175

for pensions... for fortifications ..

133 , 1406 462, 1058

for Military Academy .
for powder factory.. for armories and arsenals .

521, 1063 464
731, 1339

for marking civilian graves in post ceme-

teries ....

741

for bringing home remains of officers,

etc.

741 , 1347

3322.

INDEX.

Arlington National Cemetery, Va. -Cont'd . Page, appropriation for improving addition to ... .1347

Arlington, Va.,

appropriation for experimental farm ... 680, 1266

Armament of Fortifications,

appropriation for..

463, 1059

Armell, Louis, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Armistead, John G. H. ,

pension increased .

2322

Armor and Armament, Navy,

appropriation for new vessels , of domestic

manufacture ...

583, 1204

restriction on contracts..

583

Armories (see Arsenals and Armories) .

Arms, Alice A. (urdow) ,

pension increased .

1829

Arms, Ammunition, etc.,

proclamation prohibiting export to Santo

Domingo of.

3183

Armstrong, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

2532

Armstrong, Charles H.,

appropriation for..

351

Armstrong County, Pa.,

bridge authorized across Allegheny River,

by.

1234

Armstrong, Hiram F.,

pension increased

1430

Armstrong, John,

pension increased .

1429

Armstrong, Maynard C. , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

346

Armstrong Thomas,

pension increased ..

2001

Army (see also War Department),

appropriation for support of the..

240, 1158

for all contingencies.

240, 1158

for Army War College..

240, 1158

for contingent expenses, military infor-

.mation division ...

240, 1158

for military service schools ..

240, 1158

for contingent expenses, military de-

partments, etc ..

240, 1158

Military Secretary's Department to

be Adjutant-General's Department ;

title of officers ....

1158

for submarine defense school ..

240, 1159

for signal service expenses...

241, 1159

maintenance of telegraph lines and

cables...

241 , 1159

extension of Alaska lines from.receipts;

estimates...

241, 1159

for pay of line officers ; longevity .... 241 , 1159

assignment of pay accounts per-

mitted ...

241 , 1159

office of Lieutenant-General to cease

on vacancy; retired list not affected . 1160

allowances for service at Jamestown

Exposition...

1160

for pay of enlisted men..

241, 1160

extra to expert riflemen , sharpshooters ,

and marksmen ....

241

deduction from retired enlisted men

for Soldiers' Home repealed ....

242

noncommissioned officers, etc. , for re-

cruit and prison companies..

1160

for longevity ...

242, 1160

detachment for recruiting depots and

prisons .... for Engineer battalion..

242 242, 1160

for Ordnance Corps ..

242, 1160

for quartermaster-sergeants .

242, 1160

for post commissary-sergeants ..

242, 1160

for electricians, Artillery Corps .......

242

Army-Continued .

Pag .

appropriation for Signal Corps

242, 1160

for Hospital Corps ...

243, 1161

for clerks, messengers, etc. , at head-

quarters ..

243, 1161

for pay of staff, etc. , officers ; Military Sec-

retary's Department ; longevity .: 243, 1161

promotion of major..

1161

Inspector-General's Department ; lon-

gevity...

244, 1161

Engineer Corps ; longevity .

244, 1162

Ordnance Department; longevity.. 244, 1162

Quartermaster's Department; longev-

ity ....

244, 1162

Subsistence Department: Ingevity 244, 1162

Medical Department ; longevity ... 244, 1162

Pay Department ; longevity : . 244, 1162

Judge - Advocate - General's Depart-

ment; longevity ..

244, 1162

Signal Corps...

244, 1162

Bureau of Insular Affairs; detail .

1162

for retired pay, officers; longevity ... 245, 1162

pay of colonels and lieutenant-colonels

on active duty.

245

limitation on retirement of officers

above colonels ..........

245

brigadier-generals with civil war serv-

ice to be retired as major-generals;

condition.....

1163

for retired pay, enlisted men .

245, 1163

for hospital matrons; nurses

245, 1163

for veterinarians; longevity .

245, 1163

for dental surgeons.......

245, 1163

for contract surgeons..

245, 1163

for paymasters' clerks and messengers . 245, 1163

traveling expenses ....

245, 1163

for courts-martial, etc. , expenses

245, 1163

*for officer in charge public buildings and

grounds, D. C ..

245, 1163

for commutation of quarters, officers .. 245, 1163

for travel allowance, enlisted men on

discharge...

245, 1163

for undrawn clothing, enlisted men .. 245, 1163

for interest on soldiers' deposits ..

245, 1163

transfer of fund for back deposits .

245

soldiers' savings to be a separate fund ;

repayment ....

246

clothing balances to be paid from reg-

ular pay fund ...

246

for translator, etc. , military informa-

tion .....

246, 1163

for expert accountant.

246, 1163

for extra-duty pay, enlisted men artillery

and ordnance service ..

246

for extra-duty pay, enlisted men artil-

lery and ordnance service, at sea-

coast fortifications ...

1163

switch-board operators at posts ..... 1163

for mileage, officers and contract sur-

geons ...

246, 1163

allowance; transportation requests.... 246

travel over land-grant roads..

246

deduction from mileage when traveling

on transportation orders, etc ......

247

when station ofofficer is changed while

on leave.....

247

sea-travel allowances ; restriction ..... 247

for 20 per cent, enlisted men ; computa-

tions ..

247, 1164

for 10 per cent, officers ; computations. 247, 1164 availability of current appropriations. 247
for computer, artillery board ....... 247, 1164

for loss by exchange, disbursements

abroad ..

.... 247, 1164

INDEX.

3323

Army-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for subsistence, etc. , National

Guard officers attending' army

schools ....

1164

for Porto Rico Provisional Regiment . 247, 1164

for Philippine Scouts....

248, 1164

allowance for service by men in Reg-

ular Army..

248

division of annual and monthly com-

pensation...

248

all above, except mileage, to be ac-

counted as pay of the Army.

248, 1164

for encampments of militia with regu-

lars ..

247, 1164

payments to militia after muster .

249

for flags for decorating graves Memorial

Day..

1165

for claims for damages, war with Spain,

etc

1165

forSubsistence Department ; supplies . 249, 1165

emergency ration ..

1165

extra-duty pay; civilian employees . 249, 1165

for commutation of rations, etc.

249, 1165

use of disbursing funds for paying small

amounts .....

1166

for transport service ; special diet rations,

ice, etc...

250, 1166

for prizes for bakers and cooks ..

250, 1166

for Quartermaster's Department ; regular

supplies......

250, 1166

post bakeries; ice machines ; laun-

dries; schools, etc ..

253, 1166

forage; stationery .

250, 1166

fuel to officers ..

250

heat and light to officers..

1167

printing; use of ice machines, etc .. 250, 1167

for equipment of post schools .

251, 1167

for incidental expenses ..

251, 1167

extra-duty pay; interments .. horse expenditures... for horses; purchases at posts .....

251, 1167 252, 1168 252, 1168

use of Fort Keogh Reservation, Mont.,

for horse breeding station..

252

for barracks and quarters...

252, 1168

extra-duty pay.....

252, 1168

assignment of rooms to officers; com-

mutation

1168

civilian employees ; limitation .. for additional land, Texas...
Fort Taylor, Key West, Fla.

252, 1169 252 1169

permit for embankment, etc. , Key

West, Fla ..

1169

for post exchanges.. Presidio of San Francisco, Cal.

253, 1169 253

for transportation... division of estimates...

253, 1169 1169

transport service ; sale restricted ... 253, 1170

on land-grant roads ....

253, 1170

restriction on use of transports .. 254, 1170

leaves of officers in the Philippines

1171

for roads, etc., in Alaska .... for shelter in the Philippines....

254, 1171 254, 1171

for clothing and camp and garrison equi-

page

254, 1171

indemnity for destroyed clothing.. 254, 1171

for post hospitals, construction , repairs,

etc..

254, 1171

Fort D. A. Russell , Wyo. , Columbus

Barracks, Ohio, and Jefferson Bar-

racks, Mo....

255

treatment of Navy and Marine Corps

at Fort Bayard, N. Mex

1172

for quarters, hospital stewards .

255, 1172

for shooting ranges , etc.

255, 1172

Army -Continued .

Page.

appropriation for Army War College , main-

tenance ..

255, 1172

forMedical Department; supplies, etc. 255, 1172

preventing spread of epidemics .... 255, 1172 limitation on all Government con-

tracts .

255

rules for patients, Fort Bayard , N.

Mex .

255

use of fund from sales of supplies .

256

care of insane in Philippines .

1173

Medical Museum ; library .

256, 1173

for Engineer Department ; expenses,

etc ..

256, 1173

school, Washington, D. C.; build-

ings . chaplain authorized .

256, 1173 256

equipment of troops . services .

256, 1174 257, 1174

for Ordnance Department ; expenses , 257, 1174 for ammunition for small arms, etc ... 257, 1174

for firing morning and evening gun.. 257, 1174 for small-arms target practice ; marks-

men's medals, prizes, etc..

257, 1174

for field artillery for militia ; balances

available ..

257, 1174

for manufacture, etc. , of arms.

257, 1174

furnishing militia with new type of

small arm..

1174

for repairing and preserving ordnance

stores ...

257, 1175

for ordnance stores ..

257, 1175

for infantry, etc. , equipments .. for Benicia Arsenal, Cal ..

257, 1175 257

for general depot, Fort Mason , Cal.; con-

struction contracts ........

257

for annual rifle contests, trophy, etc. 258, 1175

for fire control, field batteries ..

1175

ordnance appropriations available for

two years...

1175

for meetings, National Board for Promo-

tion of Rifle Practice ....

258

use of funds from stores , etc. , trans-

ferred to Philippines ...

258

expenses of procuring ordnance stores ;

reimbursement ....

258

purchase of supplies, etc. , in open mar-

ket; limit..

258

for marking, etc. , graves of soldiers and

sailors, Crab Island, Lake Cham-

plain....

258

for road, etc., Balls Bluff cemetery, Va.;

acceptance of land ...

258

for reservation , Nahant, Mass .

259

forroad to cemetery, Salisbury, N. C... 259

for monument, etc. , Moores Creek, N. C .. 259

acceptance of burial place of Andrew

Johnson as national cemetery ...

259

for road to Fredericksburg national ceme-

tery, Va....

259

for marking places where soldiers fell in

Cuba and China ...

1175

loan of tents, etc. , for Jamestown Ex-

position....

1175

loan of tents, etc. , for Kingston suffer-

ers ratified..

1175

for pensions... for fortifications .

133, 1406 462, 1058

for Military Academy.
for powder factory.... for armories and arsenals...

521 , 1063 464
731, 1339

for marking civilian graves in post ceme-

teries .....

741

for bringing home remains of officers,

etc..

741, 1347

3324

INDEX .

Army-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for bringing home remains

of civilians and discharged sol-

diers for construction of posts, etc.

741, 1347 742, 1348

for military prison Fort Leavenworth,

Kans...

743

for additional subsistence and quarter-

masters' supplies for relief of earth-

quake sufferers on Pacific coast ..

827

made available for medical supplies

827

for further supplies ; extra expenses..

828

deficiency appropriation for arrears of pay,

war with Spain and in the Philip-

Army Continued . retirement of Freeman V. Walker to be re-
examined .. sale of coal to citizens of Nome, Alaska,
authorized.. Army and Navy Union,
badges may be worn on public occasion... Army General Hospital, D. C.,
deficiency appropriation for construction, etc ...
Army Supplies, appropriation for general depot, Fort Mason, Cal...

Page. 451 59 1423
32
257

pines ....

28

for general hospital, D. C ..

32

for military prison, Fort Leavenworth,

Kans .. 32

for national trophy, etc. , rifle contests .. 32

for mileage, officers, etc..

32, 645, 843

restriction to officers on leave..

32

for Quartermaster's Department..

33,

46,645, 666, 668, 1381, 1401 , 1404

for pensions...

39, 47, 1389, 1403

for Signal Service .

46,645, 1382

for pay.

46, 665, 668, 1381, 1401 , 1404

service in Cuba..

1381

artillery increase. for subsistence .. forMedical Department. for Ordnance Department..
for Washington Barracks..
for replacing Signal Service

1381
46, 646, 666, 1401 46 , 646, 1401
46, 1401 , 1404
120 stores de-

stroyed, San Francisco earthquake . 645

for books, judge-advocate's office, San

Francisco ...

646

for expenses of troops at Jamestown Ex-

position; temporary jurisdiction ac-

Army War College, appropriation for expenses. for maintenance..
Arnett, Eudocia (widow), pension increased ..
Arnold, Anna (widow), pension increased .
Arnold, Catharine (widow), pension..
Arnold, Charles M., pension increased .
Arnold, Dominick, pension increased
Arnold, Elisha T., pension increased
Arnold, Francis L., pension increased
Arnold, John H., pension increased .
Arnold, Louisa (widow), pension increased .
Arnold, Mary O. (widow), pension increased .
Arnold, Oscar R.,

240, 1158 255, 1172
2764 2738 2006 2605 1683 2671 2457 2682 1849 1729

cepted ..

1381 pension increased

1498

for Military Academy. e

1382 Arnold, William,

for militia ncampments.

1401, 1404 pension increased

2435

for bringing home remains of officers . 1401 , 1404 Arnold, William C.,

for bringing home remains of civilians,

pension increased .

2383

etc ...

1401 Arnott, Josiah B.,

for fortifications .

1401 pension increased .

2480

appointment authorized of James Carroll,

Arrears of Pay,

as surgeon...

1057

Birchie O. Mahaffey, John A. Cleveland,

and Traugett F. Keller, as second

lieutenants..

1225

Joseph Y. Porter, deputy surgeon-gen-

eral, and retired .

1255

artillery reorganization ..

861

badges of Army and Navy Union may be

worn on public occasions ...

1423

delegate to Geneva conference to be taken

from .. distribution of amounts due deceased 118

officers and men, without adminis-

tration, limit..

750

funeral expenses..

750

holders of medals of honor to have surren-

dered ones returned , etc..

1422

loan of obsolete ordnance to State and Ter-

ritorial schools and sailors and sol-

diers orphans' homes... Ordnance Department, number of officers
increased.. details for service in ; competitive ex-
aminations ... noneligibility for one year.. receipt of reimbursement for expenses in
Cuba, authorized .... retired enlisted men, allowances, and .
credit for other service ...

817 455 455 455 1381 1217

appropriation for volunteers .

750, 1356

for war with Spain..

750, 1356

deficiency appropriation for, war with

Spain and in the Philippines....

28

Arrests, D. C.,

"

issue of warrants by justices of the peace .. 126 Arrington, L. L. and L. S.,

payment to...

2701

Arroyo Colorado, Tex.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1117 Arsenals and Armories,

appropriation for manufacture of arms at 257, 1174

for Augusta, Ga .. for Benicia, Cal . for Frankford, Pa . for Rock Island, Ill for Sandy Hook proving ground for Dover, N. J., powder depot.
for Springfield, Mass I for Watertown, Mass
for Watervliet, N. Y. for Manila, depot. for repairs, etc ..

1339 257, 1339
1339 731, 1339 732, 1339 732, 1340 732, 1340 732, 1340 732, 1340 732, 1340 732, 1340

Arthur, Charles W.,

pension increased .

2520

Arthur Kill, N. Y. , and N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of channel. 736,

1344 preliminary examination of, to be made... 1115

INDEX .

3325

Articles of Merchandise,

Page.

restrictions on trade in gold and silver.... 260

Artificial Limbs, Army, appropriation for furnishing. deficiency appropriation for ..

744, 1350 666, 1401

Artillery, Army, appropriation for barracks and quarters for,

seacoast defenses..

1348

to consist of Chief of Artillery, Coast, and

Field Artillery ....

861

Artillery, Chief of Artillery to be Chief of Coast Ar-

tillery after July 1, 1908, and to cease supervision of Field Artillery. 861 to be additional member of General

Staff Corps..

861

filling of vacancies, etc.

861

functions of Coast Artillery .

861

of Field Artillery..

861

Coast Artillery to constitute a corps .

861

number of officers; band...

861

composition of companies ; limit .

862

Field Artillery, composition of regiments ;

orderlies ..

862

of batteries; additional noncommissioned

officers ; limit..

862

separation of coast and field artillery ; pro-

motion ..

863

filling vacancies ..

863

pay and allowances of enlisted men..

863

extra to electricians, etc.; limit .

863

additional chaplains: assignment; pay, etc. 864

Artillery Board, appropriation for computer......

247, 1164

Artillery, Chief of,

appropriation for submarine defense

school ..

240, 1159

to cease supervision of field artillery July 1 ,

1908 ..

861

designation changed to Chief of Coast

Artillery.

861

to be additional member of General Staff.. 861

vacancies; retired rank, etc ....

861

Artillery, Mobile, appropriation for altering, etc..

463, 1060

Artillery School, Fort Monroe, Va. ,

appropriation for instruction expenses.. 240, 1158

Artists, Alien, not excluded admission under contract .... 899

Artz, O. A. ,

payment to..

2661

Arundel Cove, Md. , appropriation for revenue-cutter depot.... 702

Asdohewin, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Ashburton-Webster Treaty, 1842,

appropriation for marking boundary line

with Canada under..

292

Ashelman, John B.,

pension increased .

1838

Asheville, N. C.,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ...

774

appropriation for ...

790, 1295

Ashland Forest Reserve, Oreg.,

proclamation enlarging area of........ 3196, 3298

Ashland, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1101

Ashley River, S. C.,

bridge authorized across , in Charleston

County....

877

Ashley, Rufus M.,

pension increased ..

2148

Ashtabula, Ohio,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 109

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation - for .

795

Ashton, George W.,

pension increased .

2782

Ashton, Thomas,

pension increased ..

2442

Ask, Jesse A. ,

pension increased..

2346

Asphalt Lands, Indian Territory,

reserved from sale until expiration of

leases, etc...

142

Asphaltum, etc. , Deposits,

lands in Uncompahgre Reservation , Utah,

containing, to be sold...

3214

Assessment and Permit Work, D. C.,

appropriation for.. Assessor's Office, D. C.,
appropriation for salaries..

490, 1127 483, 1120

deficiency appropriation for preparing

water department cards....

1376

Assignment of Pay,

permitted teachers, etc. , in Alaska..

824

army officers .

241, 1159

employees of Coast Survey.

1322

Assistant Attorney-General, Interior Depart-

ment,

appropriation for assistant attorneys, etc. 429, 974

expenses, inspectors ..

429, 974

Assistant Attorney-General, Post-Office De-

partment,

appropriation for..

440, 985

for assistant attorneys, etc ..

437,982

for printing and binding opinions of..... 1205 Assistant Attorneys,

appropriation for, Department ofJustice . 440, 985

for, United States courts..

754, 1361

for, employed in naturalization, etc. ,

proceedings...

1361

deficiency appropriation for pay of special . 41 , 48, 657, 1391
Assistant Custodians and Janitors, Public

Buildings,

appropriation for..

707, 1313

deficiency appropriation for.

.... 45, 832

Assistant to the Attorney-General,

appropriation for..

440, 985

Assisted Immigrants,

admission of alien , excluded ; exception ... 899

Asson, Sydney A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1673

Astrophysical Observatory, appropriation for maintenance ..

704, 1310

Asuncion, Paraguay,

classification and salary of consul....

100

Athens, Greece, classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

Athens Monument Association, Ohio,

given condemned cannon, etc..

1233

Athens, Ohio,

construction of public building authorized

at....

1294

Atkin, James B. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Atkinson, Elizabeth E. (widow),

pension increased ....

1744

Atkinson, Frank Holway,

age limit waived to admit, to Pay Corps,

Navy..

615

Atkinson, Samuel W. ,

pension increased...

2239

3326

INDEX.

Atlanta, Birmingham and Atlantic Railroad Company,
may bridge Chattahoochee River near Lagrange, Ga..
Coosa River at Talladega, Ala Atlanta, Ga.,

Page .
893 884

appropriation for penitentiary ; construc-

tion ...

751, 1357

for maintenance

757, 1363

construction of new public building au-

thorized at; cost ...

786

appropriation for; contracts ..

796, 1295

disposal of old building on completion of

new one ..

786

Atlantic City, N. J.

limit of cost increased , public building... 773

appropriation for..

789

Atlantic Coast,

waters of, included in first great coasting

district...

190

Atlantic Ocean,

appropriation for surveys of coasts ..... 714, 1321

Atoka, Ind. T.,

lands donated to Murrow Indian Orphans'

Home at..

142

Attorney-General,

appropriation for, Assistants, clerks, etc. 440,985

for editing, etc. , Volume 25 , Opinions of. 753

for assistants in special cases .

754, 1361

for employment of foreign counsel in

special cases..

754, 1361

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation ..

1389

duties, condemnation of lands, etc. , for new canal at Saint Marys Falls .. 1099

or special counsel, etc. , may conduct legal

proceedings in any district...

816

papers, etc., of Commission on Revision of

the Laws to be turned over to, De-

cember 15 , 1906 ..............

754

to apply for writs of mandamus to compel

compliance with interstate-com-

merce regulations .....

594

to appoint solicitor of customs, and assist-

ants ...

763

to approve title of land, Kings Mountain

Battle Ground, S. C ...

286

to file certificate to expedite appeals to

Supreme Court in Interstate Com-

merce Commission orders

592

to institute proceedings to obtain title to

lands for river and harbor improve-

ments ...

196

for locks, dams, etc ..

632

to institute proceedings to recover trans-

portation rebates, etc ...

588

to require clerks of courts to make returns,

etc. , of all moneys received ..

754

to secure title for quarantine stations .

300

Attorney-General's Office (see Department of

Justice).

Attorneys, Special,

may conduct cases, when specifically di-

rected, in any district....

816

Atwaters, John D. ,

pension increased ..

1786

Au Sable River, Mich., preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1114

Auburn, Me.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .....

779

appropriation for......

792, 1295

Auchmuty, Jesse M. ,

pension increased ..

2076

Auckland, New Zealand,

Page.

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

Aucock, Robert,

pension increased ..

1693

Auditor for Interior Department, appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc.... 406, 952

deficiency appropriation for claims certi-

fied by..

47, 666, 669, 1402, 1405

Auditor for Navy Department,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc .... 406, 952

deficiency appropriation for rent..

885

for claims certified by .

46,

666, 668, 1402 , 1405

for salaries .

665

Auditor for Post-Office Department,

appropriation for, deputy , clerks, etc .... 406, 953

for contingent expenses..

410, 957

deficiency appropriation for counters

1372

for claims certified by.......... 667, 1404, 1406

Auditor for State, etc., Departments,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc. 406, 952

deficiency appropriation for claims certi-

fied by..

48, 667, 669 , 1403 , 1405

Arizona claim for prosecution of Indians to

be examined by..

1376

Auditor for Treasury Department,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc .... 405, 952

deficiency appropriation for claims certi-

fied by.

45, 665, 669, 1401, 1404

Auditorfor War Department,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks , etc .... 405, 952

deficiency appropriation for claims certified

by ..

46, 665, 668, 1401 , 1404

Auditor's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries...

484, 1121

Auger, Emma (mother),

pension....

1519

Augusta Arsenal, Ga.,

appropriation for carpenter shop; railroad

spur..

1339

Auldridge, Jane (widow),

pension increased ..

2388

Aurora, Ill.,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

774

appropriation for.

790

Austin, America J. (widow),

pension increased .

2585

Austin, David C.,

pension increased ..

2161

Austin, Epsy Ann (widow),

pension increased

1514

Austin, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased...

2363

Austin, Minn.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

783

appropriation for..

795, 1295

Austin, Orlando O.,

pension increased...

2417

Australia,

parcels-post convention with ....

2872

Austria- Hungary, appropriation for ambassador to ..

286, 916

for secretary of embassy.. for second secretary .

287, 917 287, 917

Automatic Guns , Army,

appropriation for purchase , tests, etc ... 463, 1059

Automatic Railway Train Control,

investigation directed on necessity for;

recommendations , etc...

838

appropriation for investigating use, etc. , of. 1312

Automobiles , D. C...

speed regulations; penalty for violations.. 621

INDEX.

3327

Avenues, D. C. (see also Streets, Avenues, etc. , D. C. ),
condemnation of land for, proceedings under Code .
Ayer, Jared, pension increased .
Ayers, Ellis L., pension increased .
Aylsworth, Thomas E., pension increased .

Page.
151 2268 2201 2335

B.

Babcock, James B.,

pension increased..

1614

Baber, John C.,

pension increased ..

1557

Baber, Margaret (widow) , pension increased ..
Baboquivari Forest Reserve, Ariz. , proclamation establishing..
Baca County, Colo. , resurvey of certain townships in, authorized .

2746 3251
459

Baca, Saturnino,

pension increased .

1817

Bachman, Charles,

pension increased .

2620

Bachman, Martin V. B. ,

pension increased .

1472

Bachus, Julia A. (widow),

pension increased..

1992

Back Pay, Volunteers,

appropriation for. Back River Bridge Company,

750, 1356

may bridge Ohio River, Wheeling, W. Va. 466

Bacon, Florence (widow),

pension increased ..

2458

Bacon, Margarette R. (widow),

pension...

2476

Bacon, Philip,

pension increased ..

1474

Bad River Indian Reservation, Wis . ,

allotments to Indians on, extended ....

1217

Badger, Blanche (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2135

Badger, Nathaniel L.,

pension increased ..

1498

Badges, etc., Soldier Organizations, D. C.,

unauthorized wearing, prohibited ; punish-

ment..

62

Bagan, Angel Ange, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to....

374

Bagdad, Turkey,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Bagley, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

1583

Bahia, Brazil,
classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire..

99 293, 924

Bailey, Adaline G. (widow),

pension increased ..

2530

Bailey, Annis (widow),

pension...

2112

Bailey, E.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment..

1388

Bailey, Elizabeth L. W. (widow)

pension increased .

2116

Bailey, Franklin H.,

pension increased.

2395

Bailey, Joseph,

pension increased ..

1586

Bailey, Levi S.,

pension increased .

2710

Bailey, Lorenzo A. ,
appropriation for services to Osages ... Bailey, William G.,
pension increased .. Bailie, Gilbert,
pension increased ..

l'age. 366
2369
2696

Bailiffs, etc., United States Courts,

appropriation for pay of. deficiency appropriation for pay.

755, 1361 41 .

48, 667, 1390, 1403

Bailly, Jennie M. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

373

Bailor, William A.,

pension increased .

2157

Baird, Cal. ,

appropriation for fish hatchery.

721

Baird, Julia C. R. (widow),

pension...

2449

Baird, Louis A. ,

pension increased .

2264

Baird, William,

pension increased .

2366

Baity, William G.,

pension increased ..

2365

Baker, Andrew J. , Indiana Volunteers,

pension increased ..

1619

Baker, Andrew J. , Ohio Volunteers,

pension increased ..

1759

Baker City Forest Reserve, Oreg.,

merged into Blue Mountains Forest Re-

serve ....

3195

lands excluded, restored to public domain . 3195 Baker City, Oreg.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

777

appropriation for.

791 , 1295

Baker, Edwin N.,

pension increased .

1919

Baker, Evan H. ,

pension increased .

2396

Baker, Fannie, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

357

Baker, George A. ,

pension increased .

1571

Baker, George W.,

pension increased .

2715

Baker, Isaac,

pension...

1743

Baker Island, Salem , Mass .,`

deficiency appropriation for fog signal ......... 659

Baker, James W.,

t

pension ....

1697

Baker, John A. ,

pension increased ...........

2616

Baker, Joseph,

pension increased .

1672

Baker, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased .

2261

Baker, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2126

Baker, Parthenia W. (widow),

pension..

1653

Baker, Paul,

pension increased .

2273

Baker, Rosa, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title, to..

356

Baker, Samuel,

pension increased .

2445

Baker, Solomon H. ,

pension increased .

2117

Baker, Susan (widow),

pension increased .

2756

Baker, William M. ,

pension increased .

2361

3328

INDEX .

Bakertown, Ky.,

Page.

bridge authorized across Cumberland

River, between Celina, Tenn . , and . 1254

"Balclutha, " Ship,

change of name authorized ..........

626

Baldwin and Dague Lumber Company, may bridge Saint Francis River, Ark .....
Baldwin County, Ala., may bridge Perdido River at Waters Ferry.
Baldwin, John R. , pension increased ..
Baldwin, Julia (widow), pension increased ..
Baldwin, Julia T. (widow), pension increased..
Baldwin, Thomas T.,. pension increased .

819 79 2037 1828 2579 2760

Balew, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased..

2594

Ball, D. A., and others,

may bridge Mississippi River at Louisiana,

Mo ..

933

Ball, John E. ,

pension increased..

1688

Ballantyne, Charles,

pension increased ..

2392

Ballard, Henry,

pension increased ..

2090

Ballard, Silas H.,

pension increased .

1740

Ballenger, Reuben R. ,

pension...

1900

Ballew, Francis M.,

pension increased .

1804

Ballow, Lyman, lands in Buffalo Gap, S. Dak. , conveyed to . 891

Balls Bluff National Cemetery, Va. ,

acceptance of land for road to .

258

appropriation for road, etc..

259

Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,

to build viaduct, etc. , to new Anacostia

bridge ; share of cost ..

493

Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company (see

Philadelphia, Baltimore and Wash-

ington Railroad Company). Baltimore, Md.,
appropriation for assistant treasurer's

office .

411, 958

for public building . rent .

697, 1295 697

post-office , addition .

697

custom-house ..

697

for improvement of channel to; con-

tracts .

739, 1081 , 1345

for improvement of southwest harbor... 1081

for pneumatic tube, etc. , mail service . 472 for marine hospital... Bamberg, Germany,
classification and salary of consul ......... Bambush, John P.,
pension increased . 66 'Bancroft," Gunboat,
transfer to Revenue-Cutter Service authorized ....
Bancroft, John W. , pension increased .
Bandy, James T., pension increased ..
66 Banes," Steamer, tonnage tax refunded .

1211 1306 100 1647
702 1469 2056 2310

Bangkok, Siam, appropriation for consul-general at. for interpreter to consulate-general .. for prison expenses ..

287, 917 288, 918 294, 925

Banister, Foster L.,

Page.

pension increased .

2130

Banking Institutions, D. C.,

all, to make and publish reports as required

of national banks ...

458

power of Comptroller to take possession ... 458

having offices in foreign countries to make

semiannual reports..

458

printing publications; examinations ..

459

Bankruptcy,

offenses against , made extraditable in con-

vention with Great Britain .....

2903

Bankruptcy Act,

priority of debts, extended to wages due

salesmen ..

267

Banks, Jordan H. ,

pension increased .

2174

Banks, Wesley J.,

pension increased .

1593

Banks, William C.,

pension....

1918

Bannock Indians, Idaho,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 335, 1023

Banta, Mary I. (widow),

pension increased ...

2780

Bantom, William H.,

pension increased .

1666

Bar Harbor, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of break-

water, Mount Desert to Porcupine

Island .

1074

construction of public building authorized

at..

777

appropriation for ..

791 , 1295

Baraboo, Wis.,

limit of cost increased , public building..

774

appropriation for..

789

Barbados, West Indies,

classification and salary of consul ..

99

Barbee, Mordicai B.,

pension increased..

1750

Barber, Mrs. Artie, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

373

Barber, Edgar M.,

pension increased .

2608

Barber, Elizabeth E. (widow), pension increased ..
Barber, Martin L., pension increased .
Barber, Samuel, pension increased ..
Barbier, Frederick, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Barbier, Kate Marion, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to.
Barbier, Marie, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Barcelona, Spain, classification and salary of consul -general ... appropriation for clerk hire ..
Bard, Jeremiah, pension increased ..
Bare, John P., pension increased ..

1800 1559 2509 374 374 374
99 924 2349 2613

Bargar, Sarah A. (widow),

pension....

1509

Bark, George W., Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

345

Barker, Calvin,

pension increased .

2514

Barker, Horace E.,

pension increased .

1488

Barker, Octavo,

pension increased .

2340

INDEX.

3329

Barker, Stephen A., pension increased .

Page. 2703

Barker, W. B. , payment to .
Barker, William F., pension increased .
Barkis, Francis A. , pension increased ..

2661 2775 1757

Barmen, Germany, classification and salary of consul. appropriation for clerk hire.....
Barnaby Road, D. C., declared a public highway.
Barnard, Joseph A., pension increased.
Barnell, Charles, alias Richard North, pension increased ..
Barnes, Abner R. , pension increased .
Barnes, Ann H. (widow), pension increased ..
Barnes, Anna D. (widow), pension increased ...
Barnes, Edward A., pension increased .
Barnes, Edward M., pension increased .
Barnes, George B., pension increased ..

99 294, 924
1011 2076 2300
2148 2678 2435 2222
1848 2216

Barnes, Joshua,

pension..

1893

Barnes, William A. ,

pension increased .

1698

Barney, Hiram C. , pension increased ..
Barney, James L., pension increased ..
Barney, James P., reimbursement to..
Barney, Martin V. , pension increased .
Barney, Walter, pension increased .
Barnhill, Sibby (widow), pension increased ..
Barnum, Thomas W., pension increased .

2359 2647 2661 2302 1450 2535 1914

Barnwell, John C. ,

pension increased .

2179

Barone, Josephine, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

365

Barr, Abraham M.,

pension increased .

1876

Barr, Albert T.,

pension increased .

2438

Barr, James W.,

pension increased ..

2809

Barr, John C.,

pension increased..

1502

Barr, Mary E. P. (widow) ,

pension....

2481

Barracks and Quarters, Army,

appropriation for....

252, 1168

purchase of land, Fort Sam Houston

and San Antonio, Tex ...

252

for shelter, etc., army in the Philip-

pines

254, 1171

for artillery, seacoast defenses ; sites ... 1348

deficiency appropriation for...

46, 666, 1401

use of embankment, etc. , Key West , Fla .. 1169

Barranquilla, Colombia,

classification and salary of consul.

99

Barre, Vt.,

Page.

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

781

appropriation for..

794, 1295

Barret, Richard F.,

pension increased ..

2573

Barrett, Anthony,

pension increased .

1495

Barrett, Burden H.,

pension increased .

2552

Barrett, Uriah D.,

pension increased .

1459

Barrett, William (son) ,

pension ..

2191

Barrows, Henry J.,

pension increased .

2644

Barrows, Homer A.,

pension increased .

1475

Barry, James B.,

pension increased ..

1723

Barry, Commodore John,

appropriation for monument, etc., to mem-

ory of, Washington , D. C.......

223

commission; powers, etc..

224

site ; Capitol and Library grounds ex-

cluded ..

224

Bartlesville, Ind. T.,

terms of court, etc. , recording district No.

27..

342

Bartlett, Alonzo M.,

pension increased .

1832

Bartlett, George A. ,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts .

30, 639

Bartlett, Joseph R.,

pension increased ..

2772

Bartlett, Louisa (daughter),

pension..

2486

Bartlett, Rachel L. (widow),

pension .

1979

Bartley, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ..

2095

Bartley, Valentine,

pension increased ..

1861

Barton, John W., pension increased .
Barton, Marvin F., pension increased ..
Basel, Switzerland, classification and salary of consul .
Baskin, Samuel, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Bass, Martha J. (widow) , pension increased..
Bassett, Henry Opeman, payment to heir of .
Bassford, Anna C. (widow), pension increased...

1914 2416
$99 357 2058 2819 1898

Bastrop Bayou, Tex., appropriation for improvement of ......... 1091

Batan, Philippines, appropriation for purchase of coal claims in 23

Batavia, Java,

classification and salary of consul .

99

Batchelder, Nellie A. (widow),

pension increased ....

1973

Batchelor, Frances Ann (widow),

pension increased...

1513

Bate, William B. , late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for payment to

widow ..

43

Bateman, Joseph,

pension increased .

2616

3330

INDEX .

Bates, Archibald, pension increased .

Page 2640

Bates, Edwin D..

pension increased ..

2380

Bates, Taylor, alias Baits,

pension...

2186

Batesville Power Company,

may build canal, etc. , for power station ,

Lock and Dam No. 1 , White River,

Ark..

536

Bath, Me.,

appropriation for enforcing anchorage regulations, Kennebec River ..... 702, 1309

Bathing Beach, D. C., appropriation for expenses . deficiency appropriation for..
Battery Point , Wash., limit of cost of fog signal increased .............
Battiest, Morris, added to Choctaw final roll...

495 , 1132 641 996
340

Battle Creek, Mich.,

appropriation for public building..

697

Battle Mountain Sanitarium Reserve, S. Dak.,

established under control of Managers Vol-

unteer Soldiers' Home ..

83

Battle Mountain Sanitarium , S. Dak. ,

appropriation for expenses Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ..

749, 1355

Battle Ship, First Class,

construction authorized of highest speed

and greatest radius of action ; cost,

$6,000,000..

582

plans to be invited ; compensation if used.. 582

full details to be reported to Congress

before issuing proposals, etc.

582

construction of one , authorized ; cost,

$6,000,000 ..

1203

plans and specifications adopted .

1203

Battle Ships, Navy, appropriation for fire-control instruments .. 1180

Battlement Mesa Forest Reserve, Colo.,
proclamation modifying area . Batum , Russia,
classification and salary of consul..

3076 100

Baublitz, Samuel F.,

pension increased ..

1932

Bauer, August,

pension increased .

1742

Bauerlin, Henry,

pension increased ..

2554

Baughman, Mariah (widow ),

pension..

1482

Baum, Thomas J.,

pension increased .

2177

Bausman, Catherine (widow),

pension..

2196

Bay Ridge Channel, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of ...... 736 , 1344

modification of improvement of, author-

ized ..

1077

Bayless, Daniel B.,

pension increased .

2457

Bayley, Thomas.

pension increased .

2545

Bayley, Virgil A. ,

pension increased .

2098

Bayou Bartholomew , La.,

bridge authorized across .

1003

Bayou Bartholomew , La. and Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1090

Bayou Corney, La. and Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of... 1090

Bayou Courtableau, La., preliminary examination of, to be made... 1113

Bayou D' Arbonne, La. and Ark.,
appropriation for improvement of.. Bayou Lafourche, La. ,

Page. 1090

time extended for removing dam and build-

ing locks in...

1089

Bayou Maçon, La., appropriation for improvement of......... 1090

Bayou Mauchac, La., appropriation for improvement of........ 1089

Bayou Plaquemine, La.,

appropriation for improvement of.................. 737, 1089

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1113

layou Teche, La. ,

appropriation for imporvement of; restric-

tion..

1089

Bayou Terrebonne, La. , preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1113

Bayou Vermillion, La. , appropriation for improvement of......... 1089 preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1113

Bays, William,

pension..

2237

Beach, Franklin B. ,

pension increased .

2137

Beach, William J.,

pension .

1988

Beachey, William C.,

pension increased .

1455

Beale, Joseph H.,

pension increased ..

1839

Beall, Alphenis M.,

pension increased .

1740

Beall, William H.,

granted honorable discharge.

2406

Beam, Van Buren,

pension increased ..

2086

Bean, Alba B.,

pension...

1872

Bean, Benjamin F.,

pension increased .

1430

Bean, Elizabeth B. (widow),

pension...

1844

Bean, Walter F.,

pension increased .

1909

Bear Creek, Miss., preliminary examination of, to be made. 1114

Bear Lodge Forest Reserve, Wyo. ,

proclamation establishing

3287

Bear River Forest Reserve, Idaho and Utah,

proclamation establishing ..

3206

Bear River, Miss.,

dams etc. , authorized across, in Tisho-

mingo County..

130, 929

Bear, William , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Beard, George W.,

pension increased ..

1645

Beardslee, Evelyn S. (widow),
pension ... Beardsley, Mary L. dow),
pension increased'..

1518 2274

Bearss, Levi,

pension increased .

1436

Beatty, Emma L. (widow),

pension..

2564

Beatty, John,

pension increased ..

1936

Beatty, Robert,

pension increased ..

2069

Beattyville, Ky., bridge authorized across Kentucky River at 819

Beaufort Inlet, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1083

waterway from Pamlico Sound to .

1083

INDEX .

3331

Beaufort, N. C.,

Page.

appropriation for fisheries biological station 1327

for improvement of harbor...

1083

for improvement of waterway between

New River and .

1083

for improvement of waterway between

Newbern and

1083

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made ....

1116

Beaufort Sea,

Capt. Ejnar Mikkelsen may act as master of American vessel on expedition to... 481
Beaver Forest Reserve, Utah,

proclamation establishing..

3189

Bechtol, Catharine (widow),

pension increased..

1656

Becker Brewing and Malting Company,

payment to..

2313

Becker, Frances (widow),

pension increased...

2202

Becker, Margaret (widow ),

pension increased..

1735

Becker, Martin,

pension increased .

2649

Bedell, Henry E.,

pension increased .

1456

Bedford, Ind.,

construction of public building authorized

at ..

776

appropriation for..

791 , 1295

Bedford, Leah ( widow), pension increased .

2159

Bedient, George W.,

pension increased .

1669

Beebe, Alva,

pension increased .

2182

Beech River, Tenn.,

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 1117

Beeks, William L.,

pension increased .

1443

Beeler, Louis F.,

pension increased .

2361

Beeny, George W.,

pension increased .

2764

Beer,

constitutional restrictions of sale, etc. , in

Oklahoma ...

269

Beery, Marinda D. (widow),

pension increased .

2714

Beesley, Martha L. (widow),

pension increased .

2106

Beet Sugar Industry,

annual report for 1905 , ordered printed ;

future reports . . . . .

839

Beets,

appropriation for investigation of sugar

production from....

681, 1067

Beggars, Professional,

admission of alien, excluded .......

899

Beham , Alfred,

pension increased .

1857

Behrens, Fredrich,

pension increased .

1632

Behymer, John,

pension increased ..

2172

Beier, Julius,

pension increased ..

1972

Beirut, Syria,

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

Belden, Lewis F.,

pension increased .

2491

Belden, Perry F.,

pension increased ....

2060

Belding, Jennie F. ( widow), pension increased...

Page. 2104

Belfast, Ireland, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire..............

99 294, 924

Belgium,

appropriation for minister to ....

286, 916

for secretary of legation...

287, 917

Belgrade, Servia,

classification and salary of consul .....................

100

Beliveau, U. J.,

payment to..

2661

Belize, British Honduras,

classification and salary of consul .....

100

Belk, Lizzie (widow),

pension increased .

1704

Belknap, Rollin S.,

pension..

2483

Bell, Charles A. ,

pension increased .

2707

Bell, Edward W.,

pension increased .

2014

Bell, Frances (widow),

pension.. Bell, James H. ,
pension increased .

1993 2354

Bell, John,

pension increased .

2698

Bell, Theresia (widow), pension increased .

2384

Bell, William W.,

pension increased .

2633

Belleville, Ill.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for.

792, 1295

Belleville, Ontario, classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Bellingham , Wash. ,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ...

784

appropriation for..

796

granted immediate transportation priv-

ileges ..

864

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

1118

terms of court.

913

Bellomy, Matthew H. ,

pension increased .

2002

Beloit, Wis.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ....

784

appropriation for..

796

Belvidere, Ill.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for...

792, 1295

Belzoni, Miss. ,

bridge authorized across Yazoo River at.. 112

Bemidji, Minn. ,

dam, etc., authorized across Mississippi

River at

210

"Ben No. 9 ", Lighter,

appropriation for owners .

1293

Bender, Jacob,

pension increased ................

2288

Beneche, Charles, patent issued to , on L'Anse Reservation .. 349

Benedict, Robert D.,

payment to ..

2409

Benedict, William W. ,

pension increased ..

1545

Benham, Emma II. (widow),

pension increased.

1531

3332

INDEX.

Benham, Joseph R. , pension increased .

Page. 2580

Benicia Arsenal, Cal. ,

appropriation for increasing facilities.....

257

for stable..

1339

Benjamin, David C.,

pension increased ..

2447

Benkler, William,

pension increased ..

1638

Bennett, Annie C. , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

345

Bennett, Ary S. (urdow),

pension increased...

2622

Bennett, Henry S.,

pension increased .

2147

Bennett, Howard,

pension increased .

2303

Bennett, John P.,

pension increased .

2778

Bennett, Lloyd D.,

pension increased .

1875

Bennett, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1749

Bennett, Morris,

pension increased .

1435

Bennett, Phebe J. (widow),

pension increased ..

1494

Bennett, Philander,

pension increased .

1607

Bennett, Ruth F. (widow),

pension..

1646

Bennett, Siotha (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1717

Bennett, William T. ,

pension increased .

2715

Bennett, William W.,

pension increased ..

2312

Bennetts Ferry, Ark. ,

bridge authorized across Black River at... 892

Bennington, Albert,

pension increased .

2728

Bennum, Henry (.,

pension increased .

2674

Benson, Andrew J. ,

pension increased .

1719

Benson, Charles E. ,

pension..

2010

Benson, Charles M. ,

pension increased.

1828

Benson, Le Roy,

pension increased .

2628

Bentley, Charles B.,

reimbursement .

2315

Bentley, David J., pension..
Benton, Theodore M. , pension increased ".

2009 2275

Benton County, Wash. , bridge authorized across Columbia River

between Franklin County and ... 108 , 866

Walla Walla County and ..

866

time extended for final proofs in desert-land

entries; affidavit .

1057

Bentz, Rudolph,

pension increased .

2244

Beranek, Francis A. ,

pension increased .

1924

Bergen, Gustave,

pension..

2008

Bergen, John S. ,

pension increased ..

2769

Bergen, Norway,

classification and salary of consul .

100

Bergeron, John B. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

365

Berghahn, William C.,

Page.

pension..

1982

Berkeley, Cal. ,

cooperation with mayor, relief of earth-

quake sufferers...

827

Berkeley County, S. C. , dam authorized across Goose Creek in........... 265

Berkey, John M.,

pension increased .

1504

Berkley, Riley J.,

pension increased .

2576

Berlin, Germany,

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire....

293, 924

Bermuda,

appropriation for meteorological station

in ..

672, 1258

parcels-post convention with.

2983

Berne, Switzerland, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire........

99 294, 924

Berrien Springs, Mich. ,

dam across Saint Joseph River near, au-

thorized ..

102

Berrien Springs Power and Electric Company,

may dam Saint Joseph River, Mich...

102

Berries, D. C.,

sales in original packages or baskets per-

mitted .

316, 854

refilling baskets forbidden ..

316, 854

Berry, C. A. ,

payment to ..

2414

Berry, Jacob,

pension increased

2677

Berry, James T.,

pension increased

1429

Berry, John C.,

pension increased

2348

Berry, Louisa (widow),

pension increased

2763

Berry, William,

pension....

1877

Berry, William H. ,

pension increased

2447

Bertelsen, H. P., payment to .
Bertrand, Benjamin, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to Bertrand, Emily , Indian Allottee,
alienation restrictions removed .

1661
365 1
365

Bertrand, Joseph, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

365

Bessemer, Ala. ,

construction of public building authorized

at ..

776

appropriation for.

791, 1295

Bethel, Nancy (widow), pension increased .

2447 .

Bethesda, Md.,

appropriation for expenses, Animal Industry experiment station ............ 673, 1259

Bethurum, David, pension increased

2600

Betts, Ann (widow),

pension increased

1476

Betts, Sarah (widow),

pension increased .

2524

Betz, Peter,

pension increased

1644

Beulen, James H.,

pension increased

1570

Bevan, Lydia B. (widow) ,

pension..

1711

Beverages, penalty for using denatured alcohol for.... 217

INDEX.

3333

Beverly, Mass.,

Page. Bigknife, Nancy,

appropriation for improvement of, harbor.. 1074 added to Cherokee final roll ..

Page. 340

acquiring site for public building at, au-

Bigler, Eleanor P. (widow),

thorized ..

782 pension increased ..

2730

appropriation for. Beyer, Hillary,
pension increased
Beymer, George N., pension increased
Bibb, Benjamin F. , pension increased
Bickford, Sarah M. (widow), pension increased
Bickford, Sylvester, pension increased
Bicycles, D. C., speed regulations for; penalties ..
Biddle, John, pension increased
Bieber, Sidney,

795 2228 2605 1466 2636 2642 621 1866

Billing, Edwin, pension increased .
Billings Land District, Mont. , established ; area; office..
Billings, Martha A. ( widow), pension increased .
Billings , Myron E. , pension increased .
Billingsley, James D. , pension increased .
Bills of Lading, Interstate, to be issued for property received by carrier ; liability for loss , etc......
Biloxi, Miss., appropriation for public building . for improvement of harbor...

1625 . 11
2246 1500 1706
595 697 1088

sale of square 1131 and part of 1117, Wash-

ington, D. C. , to , directed ...

787

grant of land to , for public park and cem-

etery...

149

Biederman, Frank J., pension increased .

preliminary examination of harbor of, to

2493

be made..

1114

Biennial Register,

editing, etc., transferred to Director of the

Census ..

219

Bierer, John,

pension increased .

1444

Bierley, Frederick,

pension increased .

1710

Biertempfel, L.,

payment to ..

2747

Bietry, Pauline (widow), pension increased .
Biffar, Francis A. , pension increased .

.2099 2802

Big Belt Forest Reserve, Mont.,

proclamation establishing.

3151

modifying area of...

3283

Binding (see Public Printing and Binding) .

Binding of Documents,

for Senators and Representatives, in mo-

rocco, etc...

1013

Bingham, Anna C. (widow),

pension increased.

1957

Bingham, Lorin R., pension increased .

.. 1647

Binkley, William G. ,

pension increased ..

2298

Biological Survey, Department of Agriculture;

appropriation for salaries..

688, 1274

for general expenses ..

688, 1274

for preventing transportation of illegally

killed game...

689, 1274

report on utility of work of..

1274

Big Burros Forest Reserve, N. Mex. ,

Bird, Edward,

proclamation establishing..

3274 pension increased .

2726

Big Falls, Wash. ,

Birds, D. C., Game,

bridge_authorized across Pend d'Oreille

prohibition of unauthorized hunting, etc.. 808

River at..

199 Birds in Game Preserves,

dam , etc. , authorized at, Stevens County,

Wash ...

205

hunting, etc., or taking their eggs, forbid-

den; penalty.

536

Big Hole Forest Reserve, Mont. ,

Birge, Julia A. (widow),

proclamation establishing .

3254 pension increased ..

2684

Big Hole Forest Reserve, Mont. and Idaho,

Birkhead, Miranda (widow),

proclamation enlarging...

3281 pension....

2230

Big Sandy River, Tenn.,

Birmingham, Ala. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117 term of court at .

114

Big Sandy River, Va. ,

Birmingham, Columbus and Saint Andrews

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1117

Railroad Company,

Big Sandy River, W. Va. and Ky.,

may bridge Saint Andrews Bay, Fla ...... 18

appropriation for improvement of, and

Birmingham, England,

Tug and Levisa forks ..

737 classification and salary of consul ..

99

for improvement of, by service bridge,

appropriation for clerk hire......

294, 924

Lock No. 1 ..........

1083 Birmingham, Ky.,

Big Stone Gap, Va. ,

bridge authorized across Tennessee River

officers, etc. , of court authorized at .

547

between Brandons mill and ...... 56, 1253

terms of court at ....

547 Birmingham , William ,

Big Sunflower River, Miss.,

pension increased ..

1432

appropriation for improvement of..

1089 Birthright, Louisa J. (widow),

preliminary examination of upper, to be

pension increased ..

2247

made for locks and dams .

1114 Births, D. C.,

Big Tree Grove, Cal. , Mariposa,

regulations for registration of.

1010

added to Yosemite National Park..

831 Bisbee, Watson F.,

Bigalow, Nelson,

pension increased .

2771

pensioned increased .

2283 Biscayne Bay, Fla.,

Bigelow, Benjamin Franklin, pension increased .

appropriation for improvement of; con-

1552

tracts, etc ..

1085

Bigger, Samuel P. , pension increased ..

Biscayne Bay Quarantine Station,

1668 appropriation for launch..

701

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--47

3334

INDEX .

Bishop, Charles E. , pension increased ..
Bishop, Levi C. , pension increased.

Page. 1636
1793

Bishop, Mary C. (widow) ,

pension increased..

1644

Bishop, Mary H. (widow) , pension increased ..
Bishop, Menzo S., pension increased .

2788 2709

Bishop, Theodore H.,

granted honorable discharge...

1859

Bishop, Thomas E.,

pension increased .

1692

Bishop, Victoria (widow) ,

pension increased .

1704

Bismarck, N. Dak. ,

appropriation for water, Indian school.... 361

terms of court at..

609, 610

Bissell, James E.,

pension increased........

2754

Bitter Root Forest Reserve, Idaho and Mont. ,

proclamation modifying area of..

3044

Bittleston, Henry,

pension increased ..

2708

Bivans, Robert, ·

pension increased .

1890

Bixby, Edmund W.,

pension increased .

1887

Black and Ouachita Rivers,

appropriation for improvement of..............

1090

Lock and Dam No. 2, Catahoula Shoals ;

contracts..

1090

Black Death,

appropriation forprevention of epidemic 709, 1316

Black Hills Forest Reserve, S. Dak ,

agricultural entries within, subject to min-

ing, irrigation , etc. , laws..

234

special restriction in Lawrence and Pen-

nington counties

234

removed from entries in certain town-

ships in Pennington County ..

883

prohibition against hunting, etc. , birds or

eggs not applicable to .

536

regulations for sale of timber from.... 684, 1269

Black Lake, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor,

Holland ...

738

Black, Lieut. Col. William M.,

deficiency appropriation for extra pay,

Isthmian Canal Service ..

34

Black Mesa Forest Reserve, Ariz., proclamation enlarging boundaries of..... 3218

Black River, Ark., appropriation for improvement of........ .1093 bridge authorized across, at Bennetts Ferry 892

Black River, Mich., appropriation for improvement of mouth of . 1998 for improvement of, at Port Huron .... 1098

Black River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of.......

1083

Black River, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of, at

Lorain..

736, 1094

preliminary examination of Lorain Harbor,

to be made..

1116

Black Rock Harbor, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of" Lake

Erie entrance to .

736

for. improvement of, and channel ; ship

lock, contracts ..

739, 1078, 1345

tunnel under, for Buffalo water supply au-

thorized ..

532

Black Sands,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for investigating

useful values in........

37

Black Warrior River, Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of; locks

and dams 1, 2, and 3 ...

737, 737

for improvement of contracts.... 1087, 1345

locks and dams Nos. 14, 15, 16, and 17. 1088

Blacker, Charles,

pension increased .

2585

Blackfeet Agency, Mont.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ..... 353, 1034

for fulfilling treaty with Indians at......... 353

Blackfeet Indian Reservation, Mont.,.

survey directed ....

1035

allotments to be made to Indians on ..

1035

preference rights to waters....

1035

establishment of irrigation system ..

1035

reservations for schools, missions , etc. 1036

appraisal and sale of unallotted lands.. 1036

withdrawals under irrigation projects .. 1037

sales of undisposed lands after five years. 1037

coal and mineral land locations ..

1038

timber lands......

1038

disposition of proceeds ..

1038

appropriation for lands granted to Montana. 1038

for expenses of surveying, classifying, etc 1038

for town-site expenses..

1039

liability of Government limited ..

1039

reservation of town sites; disposal of lots .. 1039

Blacksmith, Edward, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

357

Blackwater River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1087 Blackwater River, Va. ,

appropriation for improvement of... Blackweli , Rittie (widow),

... 1082

pension...

2565

Bladensburg Road, D. C. ,

proceeding to condemn land for widening of 843

appropriation for..

844

Blaine, Wash.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made .

... 1118

Blair, George,

pension increased ..

1688

Blair, George W. ,

pension increased .

2277

Blair, Henry W.,

pension..

2449

Blair, Hugh,

pension increased ..

2305

Blair, James T.,

pension increased .

2806

Blair, William,

pension increased .

1727

Blake, Albert S. ,

pension increased

1640

Blake, Evan's,

pension increased .

1887

Blakney, Thomas, pension increased.

2040

Blancett, Robert,

pension increased .

1990

Blanchard, Helen M. (widow),

pension increased .

1459

Blanchard, John W. ,

pension increased'.

2096

Blanchard, Thomas T.,

pension increased

1894

Blanchard, William T.,

pension increased

2338

Blanche, Ala.,

diversion of Little River for power plant

at, authorized ...

818

INDEX.

3335

Bland, Theodore, pension increased .
Blanding, James D. , pension increased .

Page. 2372
1623

Blanding, Sallie E. (widow),

pension increased

2092

Blaney, Anna V. (widow), pension increased .

2714

Blank and Parks,

payment to..

2152

Blanton, John A.,

pension increased :

2158

Bledsoe, James P.,

pension increased ..

2602

Bledsoe, Relf,

pension increased .

2668

Bledsoe, Smith,

pension.

2670

Bleekman, Adelbert E.,

pension increased .

2392

Blessing, John G. ,

pension increased .

1653

Blethen, Mary R. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1537

Blewett, William E.,

pension increased .

1490

Blind, Education ofthe,

trust fund created from proceeds of matured

bonds..

460

permanent annual appropriation for in-

terest ..

460

Blinn, John L.,

pension increased

1814

Bliss, Cornelius E.,

pension increased

2744

Bliss, James W. , alias James Warren,

pension increased .

2319

Block, Carl W.,

pension increased

1584

Block Island, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor of

refuge..

1075

for improvement of harbor, Great Salt .

Pond ....

1075

preliminary examination to be made ofhar-

bor of refuge..

1116

Block Signal Systems, Railway,

appropriation for investigations of use, etc. ,

of...

1312

report on necessity for, to be made by In-

terstate Commerce Commission..

838

recommendations to be made..

838

powers to take testimony, etc.

838

Blodgett, Edward T.,

pension.

2696

Blodgett, Ethan,

pension increased .

1602

Blodgett, Laura A. (widow),

pension increased

1503

Bloomer, Daniel,

pension increased .

1748

Bloomington, Ind.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

782

appropriation for .

794

Blossom, William A.,

pension increased .

1806

Blue Book,

editing, etc. , transferred to Director of the

Census ..

219

Blue Mountains Forest Reserve, Oreg.,

proclamation establishing

3194

including Baker City Reserve

3195

adding Maury Mountain Reserve to, and

enlarging boundaries ...

3302

Bluefield, W. Va.,

Page.

construction of public building authorized

at..

777

appropriation for. Bly, James E.,

791 , 1295

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1387

Blye, Warren A.,

pension increased .

1572

Blyth, Thomas,

pension increased .

1773

Board for Condemning Insanitary Buildings,

D. C.,

created; powers and duties

157

Board of Charities, D. C. ,

appropriation for expenses..

508, 1148

Board of Education, D. C.,

appointment; terms; no compensation.... 316

organization , officers; powers, etc.

316

Board of Medical Supervisors, D. C.,

name of board of supervisors in medicine

and pharmacy changed to

1005

divested of pharmacy functions

1005

Board ofOrdnance and Fortification, Army,

appropriation for general expenses . 465, 1062

for civilian member....

465, 1062

for expenses of members..

465, 1062

for tests of experimental guns, etc .. 465, 1062

inquiry as to right to invention before mak-

ing tests, etc...

465, 1062

Board of Pharmaceutical Examiners, D. C. ,

composition; duties...........

177

Board of Pharmacy, D. C.,

created, to succeed board of pharmaceu-

tical examiners .

1005

powers, officers, etc ..

1005

Board of Supervisors of Medicine and Phar-

macy, D. C.,

created; composition , duties, etc.

178

Board of Veterinary Examiners, D. C.,

created; powers and duties, etc ....

870

Board of Visitors,

appropriation for expenses, Military Acad-

emy ..

526, 1068

for expenses, Naval Academy .

578, 1200

Boca Ceiga Bay, Fla. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made..... 1112

Boca Grande Quarantine Station, +

appropriation for launch..

701

for quarters, etc ....

1307

Bocoskey, Michael,

pension..

2369

Bode, William,

pension increased

1603

Bodenhamer, George W.,

pension increased

1923

Bodkin, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased

1890

Bodley, Levi N.,

pension increased

1615

Boeuf River, La. and Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1090

Boepple, Nathalia (widow),

pension increased .

2131

Boesewetter, Otto,
pension. Bogan, Patrick,
pension increased

' 1964 2614

Boger, Ernst,

pension increased

2501

Boger, Joseph R. , .

pension increased

2462

Boggs , Albert W.,

pension increased

2616

Boggs, James A. ,

pension...

2082

: 3336

INDEX.

Boggs, Pay Director Lawrence G. ,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts ..

1383

Boggs, Oliver S., pension increased .
Bogia, Benjamin D., pension increased ..
Bogota, Colombia, classification and salary of consul-general ..
Bogue Chitto, La. , appropriation for improvement of.......
Bogue Falia, La. , appropriation for improvement of..
Bogue, Michael, pension increased ..

2712 1986
99 1089 1089 2453

Bohannan, Martha L. (widow),

pension increased .

2742

Bohn, Christopher,

pension increased ..

1779

Boilers, Inspectors of, abolished for district of Alaska , and ports

of Gallipolis, Ohio, and Wheeling,

W. Va

106

provided for Juneau and Saint Michaels, Alaska, and Point Pleasant, W. Va . 106

Boise, Idaho, appropriation for assay office at.
Bokart, John, pension increased .

415, 961 1526

Bole, Henry D.,

pension increased ..

2577

Bolen, Enoch,

pension increased ..

1621

Boles, William T. A. H.,

pension increased ..

2022

Bolinger, Benjamin,

pension increased .

2369

Bonner, Elizabeth A. (widow), pension increased ..

Page. 2738

Bonnin, Charles Henry, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to.
Bonnin, Mercy Conger, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Bonynge, Margaret (widow), pension increased .
Book Typewriters,
appropriation for purchase; to be used in recording deeds D. C...
Bookhammer, Mary E. (widow), pension increased.
Bookman, John W. , pension increased.
Boon, Robert, pension increased .
Boone, Annie L. (widow), pension increased ..
Booth, Cora Allie (widow), pension
Booth, John W., pension increased .
Booth, William, pension increased .
Boothbay Harbor, Me. ,
appropriation for launch, lobster hatchery . for lobster hatchery
Boots and Shoes,

373 373 2067
489 2570 1753 1442 2606 2563 2533 2717
721 1329

modification of Philippine custom duties

on..

26

Boozer, A. E., payment to ..
Bordeaux, France,
classification and salary of consul ... appropriation for clerk hire.... Borderland Coal Company,

2660
99 293, 924

Bolivia, appropriation for minister to . for secretary of legation ....

287, 917 287, 917

Bollard, Walter Delafield,

waiver of age limit for admission to Navy

Pay Corps ....

2657

Bolles, Enoch, pension increased .
Bolshaw, Joseph, pension increased .
Bolster, David P., pension increased .

2427 2282 1482

Bolt, Larsey ( widow),

pension increased.

2207

Bolt, Martha Jane (widow),

pension increased .

2143

Boltz, Ephraim M.,

pension increased ..

2598

Boma, Kongo Free State,

appropriation for consul-general........ 293, 923

Bombay, India,

classification and salary of consul .

99

Bond, James,

pension increased...

2392

Bonds, Isthmian Canal,

rights and privileges accorded to ...

5

Bonds on Contracts, D. C., not required if amount not more than $500.. 546
Bone, William H.,

pension increased .

2316

Boney, George H.,

pension increased.

2780

Bonham, Marie G. (widow),

pension increased .

1608

Bonita Point, Cal.,

appropriation for rebuilding light keepers'

dwelling...

710

may bridge Tug Fork of Big Sandy River,

Nolan, W. Va...........

626

Borthwick, Isabel T. (widow),

pension...

2824

Boshea, Alexander,

pension increased..

2398

Boss, Jeremiah, alias Jeremiah Ingalls,

pension increased ...

1458

Boston, Mass.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's

office..

411, 958

for public works, navy-yard. for improvement of harbor.. for 35-foot channel ; contracts .

564, 1186 736, 1074 1074, 1344

acquiring site and erecting appraisers'

stores at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for. for marine hospital.

792, 1296 1307

purchase of land on Deer Island in harbor

of, for fortifications ...

457

Bostwick, Joseph L.,

pension increased .

1616

Boswell, Mima A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2109

Bosworth, Alice (widow),

pension..

2283

Bosworth, Thomas,

pension increased .

2028

Botanic Garden,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

ants, etc...

400, 947

for repairs and improvements..

400, 947

for repairs, rebuilding, etc..

759, 1365

deficiency appropriation for improving...

48

for buildings..

48

Botner, Benjamin,

pension increased .

1800

INDEX .

3337

Botsford, Edwin A. , pension increased .

Page. 1776

Bottcher, Ulrika (widow),

pension...

1637

Bottoms, William F.,

pension increased .

1691

Botts, Columbus,

pension increased .

2065

Boucher, Joseph H.,

pension...

2676

Bouden, Asher S.,

pension increased.

1605

Boughman, Daniel,

pension increased .

1866

Boughner, George W.,

pension increased .

2533

Boulder, Colo. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for..

A 792, 1296

grant of lands to , for water supply; price,

etc.

1223

Boulton, William H.,

pension increased ..

2470

Boundary,

convention with Great Britain for marking

Alaskan ....

2948

Boundary, Canada and United States,

appropriation for demarcation of, under

treaty of 1842...

292

Boundary, Canada- United States,

appropriation for marking..

923

Boundary Commission, Canadian Water,

appropriation for continuing work of......

743

to report on action to preserve Niagara

Falls ...

824

Boundary Commission, Mexican Water, appropriation for continuing work of.. 291, 920

deficiency appropriation for continuing

work of..

885

Boundary Line, Alaska and Canada,

appropriation for surveys, etc. , to mark . 292, 922

Bounty,

appropriation for volunteers .

750, 1356

deficiency appropriation for destroying

enemy's vessels ....

47, 666, 1402, 1405

for seamen's enlistment. 47, 666, 669, 1402, 1405

Bourassa, Margaret, Pottawatomie Allottee,

patent issued to, canceled ..

364

Bourbonnais, Anthony, jr., Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

365

Bourke, William C.,

pension increased..

1924

Boush, Sarah A. (widow

pension increased ..

1481

Bovee, Joseph, pension increased ..
Bovee, Nicholas A., 1 pension increased .
Bowen, Caleb T., pension increased ..
Bowen, David, pension increased...
Bowen, George, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to.. Bouen, John,
pension increased . Bowen, Oscar O.,
granted honorable discharge ....
Bowker, Joseph C., pension increased .

2122 2344 2145 2337 378 2713 2814 2684

Bowles, John E. ,

pension increased .

2572

Bowles, William A. ,

pension increased.

2115

Bowling Green, Ky.,

Page,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for:

792, 1296

Bowman, Benson H.,

. pension increased .

1852

Bowman, Henry Z., pension increased .
Bowman, James, pension increased .
Bowman, Jeremiah,
pension... Bowman, Polly Ann (widow),
pension increased . Bowser, Thomas J., ·
pension increased .

2275 2494 2740 2809 1956

Boxmeyer, Charles,

pension increased .

2445

Boy, David, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Boyd, George S., pension increased .
Boyd, John N., pension increased ..

357 2340 1742

Boyd, Samuel,

pension increased...

2763

Royden, Elbridge P. , pension increased.

2494

Boyer, Emma M. (widow) ,

pension...

1524

Boyer, Jonathan J.,

pension increased .

1529

Boyle, Elizabeth B. (widow), pension increased.

2314

Boyle, Enoch, pension increased..

2054

Boyle, George A.,

pension increased.

2692

Boyles, George W.,

pension increased ..

1830

Boynton, Eli,

pension increased ....

2329

Boynton, Helen Augusta Mason (widow),

pension...

2350

Boyt, T. E.,

payment to.

2822

Bozarth, Abram J. ,

pension increased ..

1754

Brackett, Josephine (widow),

pension...

2456

Bradberry, John H. ,

pension increased .

2197

Bradbury, Augustus F.,

pension increased ..

1627

Bradbury, Charles A.,

pension increased .

1445

Braden, Miner L.,

pension increased ...

1869

Brader, Levi,

pension increased .

2250

Bradfield, Zachariah,

pension increased.

1504

Bradford, England, classification and salary of consul .
appropriation for clerk hire...
Bradford, John, pension increased .

99 293, 924
2210

Bradford, Pa.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for .

795

Bradish, Albert H.,

pension increased .

2178

Bradley, George M.,

pension increased .

1542

3338

INDEX.

Bradley, Glen, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..

Page . 365

Bradley, John,

pension increased .

2304

Bradley, Nathan C.,

pension increased .

1624

Bradley, Robert O. ,

pension increased .

2502

Bradshaw, Silas N.,

pension increased ..

1472

Brady, John,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment.

653

Brady, Lucinda (widow),

pension...

2182

Brady, Mary A. (widow),

pension...

2680

Brady, Mathias,

pension increased .

1873

Brady, Michael,

pension increased .

1451

Brady, William H. , Delaware Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2731

Brady, William H. , Pennsylvania Volunteers,

pension increased

1778

Bragdon, Benjamin,

payment to..

2661

Bragdon, W. H.,

payment to..

2661

Bragg, Benjamin,

pension increased ..

2506

Bragg, Edward S.,

pension....

2153

Bragg, Catherine E. (widow),

pension increased .

1878

Brail, George G. ,

pension increased .

1606

Brainard, Eli,

pension increased.

1692

Brainerd, Minn.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized

783

appropriation for

795

Brake, Robert,

pension increased..

2772

Brakes, Automatic Railway Train,

appropriation for enforcing laws requiring

use of...

705, 1312

reporton necessity for, to be made by Interstate Commerce Commission .... 838

Braman, Henry T.,

pension increased ..

1541

Bramel, Thomas, alias Thomas Bramble,

pension increased ..

1488

Branam, William T.,

pension increased .

1869

Branch Printing Offices,

inquiry and report to be made on abolition of, by Joint Commission .......... 762, 1394

Brand, James S.,

pension increased ..

2024

Brandau, Robert, alias Brandon,

pension increased...

2154

Brandon, Matthew H. ,

pension increased .

2080

Brandons Mill, Ky.,

bridge authorized across Tennessee River between Birmingham and ....... 56, 1253

Brandt, Jesse H. ,

pension increased .

1986

Branford, Conn., appropriation for improvement of harbor ..
preliminary examination of harbor to be made ....
Brannon, Margaret (widow), pension increased.

Page. 1076 1112
2228

Branson, Alfred, pension increased ..
Brant, Ellen M. (widov ) , pension increased ..

2371 1718

Branyan, Joseph J., pension increased .

2567

Braselton, William A., pension increased .

1998

Brawner, George W.. pension increased .
Brazelton, Eli,

2462

pension increased ....

1529

Brazil,

appropriation for ambassador to.. for secretary of embassy..

286, 916 287, 917

deficiency appropriation for Pan-American

Conference at Rio de Janeiro .....

118

Brazos River, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of mouth

of..

737, 1091

for improvement of, from Velasco to Old

Washington.

1092

from Old Washington to Waco ; dam at Hidalgo Falls ; contracts..
Breazeale, Frank, pension increased ..

1092 2522

Breckenridge, Samuel M., pension increased ..

2720

Breckenridge, William C., pension increased..

1450

Breden, John, pension increased ..

1514

Breech-Loading Guns, Army,

appropriation for converting muzzle-load-

ing to, for saluting.......

1060

Breighner, John Lewis Bernard (son) ,
pension.. Bremen, Germany,
classification and salary of consul. appropriation for clerk hire..

2095
99 294, 924

Bremerton, Wash. (see Puget Sound NavyYard ).
Bremmer, Lizzie (widow),
pension... Brenizer, Henry,
pension increased.
Brenton, Oliver, pension increased ..:
Breslau, Germany, classification and salary of consul .....
Brewer, Horatio S. , pension increased .

1596 2035 1658 100 2679 .

Brewer, John J.,

pension...

1596

Brewer, William I.,

pension increased .

1956

Brewerton, Sidney S.,

pension increased ..

1918

Brewster, George,

pension increased.

2122

Briant, Charles C.,

pension increased ...

1734

Bribery,

made an extraditable crime , in treaty

with Denmark ..

2898

with Great Britain .

2903

Brandy, Grape, Brick, Mary A. (widow), included in definition of wine spirits ..... 215 pension increased ... 2405

INDEX .

3339

Brickett, George E., pension increased..

Page. 1430

Bridaham, John G.,

pension increased ..

2270

Bridge, Gifford M.,

pension increased ..

2773

Bridgeport, Conn. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts; limitation .....

736, 1076

Bridges, change of location, etc. , Hudson River at

New York on approval of' Secretary

of War..

1119

control of expenses for, across Mississippi

River, at Fort Snelling, Minn ...

1418

general regulations for construction of..

84

plans to be approved by Secretary of War. 84

deviations not permitted unless ap-

proved ..

85

to be lawful structures and post routes .

85

use for mails, troops, telegraphs, etc ..

85

privileges to telegraph and telephone com-

panies...

85

use by railroad companies ; compensation . 85

navigation to be unobstructed ; changes .. 85

lights, draws, etc. , to be maintained ...

85

tolls to be prescribed.....

85

violations of regulations a misdemeanor;

· penalty..

85

proceedings to enforce ; litigation..

86

commencement and completion .

86

"persons" defined ...

86

right to alter, etc. , reserved ; nonliability

of United States..

86

included with railroads in interstate com-

merce regulations..........

584

appropriation for, across Tongue River,

Fort Keogh, Mont. , by Custer

County...

88

construction of, authorized across Alle-

gheny River, Armstrong County, Pa. 1234

Oakmont to Hulton Ferry, Pa ....

848

Arkansas River, Pine Bluff, Ark..

50

Van Buren, Ark...

21

Ashley River, Charleston County, S. C. 877

Bayou Bartholomew, La...

1003

Black River, Bennetts Ferry, Ark...

892

Calumet River, Hammond , Ind .

877

Lake County, Ind ...

877

Chattahoochee River, between Colum-

bus and Franklin, Ga..

324

Eufaula and Franklin...

325

Lagrange, Ga....

893

Steammill, Ga ....

931

Clinch River, and branches, Va..

191

Coldwater River, Miss ..

631

Columbia River, between Benton and

Franklin counties, Wash ....

108, 866

Douglas and Kittitas counties, Wash.. 109

Wallawalla and Benton counties,

Wash....

866

Vancouver, Wash..

2

Wenatchee, Wash .

Coosa River, Talladega, Ala .

884

Copper River, Alaska, at Childs Glacier. 804

Cumberland River between Celina,

Tenn., and Bakertown, Ky ....... 1254

Clarksville, Tenn ..

134

Lineport, Tenn. , and Tennessee Roll-

ing Works, Ky.

58, 1254

Nashville, Tenn.

135

D'Arbonne River, Farmerville, La..

1254

Delaware River, Trenton, N. J.,

64

Escambia River, Fla..

1239

Gasconade River, Fredericksburg, Mo... 388

333*.*3*3*3**3*7

Bridges-Continued .

Page.

construction of, authorized across Grand

Calumet River, Ill ..

1234

Holston River and branches, Va. and

Tenn ...

191, 191

Kentucky River, Beattyville, Ky.

819

Little River, Ark ..

112

Mississippi River, Clinton, large, etc ..
Fort Snelling, Minn Louisiana, Mo.. Morrison County, Minn . Saint Louis, Mo ...

Iowa,

en879 66 933 868
461 , 892

Missouri River, Broadwater and Gallatin

counties, Mont...

456

Glasgow, Mo ..

818

Kansas City, Kans ..

884

Kansas City, Mo...

196

Lewis and Clark County, Mont ..

457

Saint Charles and Saint Louis counties,

Mo....

818

Walworth and Dewey counties, S. Dak 95

Walworth County, S. Dak...

193

Mobile Bay, Cedar Point to Dauphin

Island, Ala...

10

Monongahela River, Brownsville, Pa .. 128

Pittsburg, Pa.

539, 1235'

Ohio River, Coraopolis to Osborne, Pa.. Wheeling, W. Va....
Ouachita, etc., rivers, Ark. Monroe, La...
Pearl River, Columbia, Miss .. Pend d'Oreille River, Wash.. Perdido River, Waters Ferry, Ala... Potomac River, Shepherdstown, W. Va.. Rainy River, Pethers Point, Minn
Red River, Shreveport, La...

-538 466 1 1254 933 199 79 878 103 1255

Red River of the North , in North Dakota

and Minnesota..

820

Oslo, Minn... Roanoke River, Weldon , N. C. Sabine River, La. and Tex .. Saint Andrews Bay, Fla.. Saint Francis River, Ark.
Cross and Poinsett counties, Ark. Madison, Ark... Snake River, Lewiston, Idaho .. Whitman and Columbia counties ,Wash Sunflower River, Lehrton, Miss . Tallahatchie River, Jarman Ferry, Miss.. Tennessee River, between Brandons Mill

467 197
7 18 19, 20 819 90 98 107 539 211

and Birmingham, Ky...

56, 1253

Chattanooga, Tenn..

388

Tombigbee River, Stones Ferry, Ala..

849

Tug Fork of Big Sandy River, Devon,

W. Va...

883

Nolan, W. Va..

626

Sprigg, W. Va .

1234

Warfield , Ky .

852

West Virginia, Kentucky, and
ginia.. Williamson, W. Va . Wolf Creek, Ky . Tugaloo River, S. C. and Ga. Wabash River, Mount Carmel , Ill . Yazoo River, Miss .. Belzoni, Miss .. Yellowstone River, Mont ..

Vir891
69, 1004 1002 122 820 618 112 97

construction of trestle, mainland of Con-

troller Bay to Whale Island , Alaska,

authorized ..

803

modification authorized of, across Missis-

sippi, Prairie du Chien, Wis...

615

time extended for constructing, Calumet

River, Cook County, Ill .

51

3340

INDEX .

Bridges-Continued . ^

Page:

time extended for constructing, Cumber-

land River, Carthage, Tenn..

51

Nashville, Tenn..

927

Mississippi River, Fort Snelling, Minn.. 1418

Saint Louis, Mo ..

883

Missouri River, Kansas City to Sibley,

Mo.

911

South Omaha, Nebr .

817

Yankton, S. Dak...

9, 10, 897, 1058

Monongahela River, Brownsville , Pa ... 1236

Charleroi to Rostraver, Pa ..

884

Webster, Pa..

17,876

Potomac River, Washington , D. C. , high-

way ..

821

Red River, Shreveport, La.

Bridges, D. C.,

appropriation for construction and repair. 492,1130

for highway, maintenance...

492 , 1130

for Connecticut avenue, across Rock

Creek....

492

for Sixteenth street, over Piney Branch.. 492

for reconstructing K street, over Rock

Creek...

492

for Anacostia, reconstructing; approaches 492

maintenance ; time extended for com-

pletion...

1130

for paving approaches to Connecticut

avenue .

1128

for Aqueduct, repairs, etc ..

1130

for constructing, over railroad tracks,

Monroe street, Brookland ; payment

by company..

1130

time extended for completion of highway . 821

for completion of approaches ..

1419

Bridges, William,

pension increased ..

1962

Bridgeton, N. J.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for. Bridwell, Ezekiel,
pension increased . Briggs, Erastus W. ,
pension increased .

793, 1296 1960 2094

Briggs, Minerva (widow),

pension increased ..

1447

Briggs, Wells,

pension increased .

1469

Brigham, Sidney S.,

pension increased .

1438

Bright, Mary G. (widow);

pension...

1455

Brink, Andrew,

pension increased........

2474

Brinker, Sarah A. (widow),

pension..

1886

Brinkley, John,

pension increased .

1480

Brinton, George W.,

pension increased .

2580

Brisco, Martha J. (widow),

pension increased ...

1560

Bristol, Dora T. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2540

Bristol, England,

classification and salary of consul..

100

Bristol, James Edward,

pension increased ..

2501

British Possessions in North America,

convention with Great Britain for marking

boundary between Alaska and

2948

British North American Provinces,

consular invoice-fee provision of Revised

Statutes repealed ..........

101

Britton, Daniel,

Page.

pension increased..

1773

Broad Creek River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1081 Broad, John,

pension increased...

1776

Broad River, S. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1116 Broadkill River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1081 Broadwater Club,

conveyance of former light station Hog

Island, Va., to, authorized ; condi-

tion ..

997

Broadwater County, Mont.,

bridge authorized across Missouri River,

Gallatin and .

456

Broadway, John H.,

pension increased .

2097

Broadwell, John A. ,

pension increased .

1846

Brockman, Washington,

pension increased .

2134

Brockmann, Henry,

payment to .

2661

Brockway, Sue A. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2724

Brodowski, Theophil,

pension increased ..

2371

Brody, James,

pension increased .

1470

Bronaugh, Mary E. (widow),

pension..

1942

Bronson, Emmagene (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2367

Bronson, William N.,

return from President requested of bill to

pension .

2840

Bronx River, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1078

Broocks, Hon. M. L.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses...

661

Brooke, Lieut. Mark,

deficiency appropriation for extra pay,

Isthmian Canal service..

34

Brookland Baptist Church, D. C. ,

taxes refunded ..

870

Brooklyn Ferry Comnppany,

appropriation for damages to ferryboat .... 1282

Brooklyn, N. Y. ,

enlargement of public building at , author-

ized ..

774

appropriation for.

790

pneumatic-tube mail service for . 66
Brooklyn, " U. S. S.,
appropriation for new battery for..

472, 1211 1180

Brooks, Alphonso,

pension increased ..

1665

Brooks, Asa G. ,

pension increased ..

2206

Brooks, John D. ,

pension increased .

2357

Brooks, John H.,

pension increased .

2260

Brooks, Joseph, Ohio Volunteers,

pension increased..

2793

Brooks, Joseph, Virginia Volunteers,

pension .

2468

Brooks, Martha (widow),

pension increased ..

1760

Brooks , W. S.,

payment to .

2661

Brothers, John T.,

pension increased .

1844

INDEX.

3341

Brotherton, Wis. , appropriation for improvement of.....
Brott, Harrison,
pension.. Brough, Charles M.,
pension increased .

Page. 1101
1502
2441

Broughton, John, pension increased .
Brown, A. J., payment by, as administrator de bonis non,
on account of loyal Seminoles, confirmed ...
Brown, Abby L. (widow), pension increased ..
Brown, Abraham S. , pension increased .

2076
140 2424 1822

Brown, Adeline (widow), pension increased .
Brown, Agnes E. (widow) , pension increased ..
Brown, Ahijah, pension increased .
Brown, Alexander, pension increased .
Brown, Alphonso, pension increased..
Brown, Amanda, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Brown, Asail, pension increased .
Brown, Bryant, pension increased ..
Brown, Carl, payment to .
Brown, Charles D. , pension increased .

2808 2558 1576 2464 2805 373 2617 2097 2661 1841

Brown, Darius J.,

pension increased.

1515

Brown, Elisha, Indiana Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2326

Brown, Elisha, Minnesota Volunteers, pension increased .
Brown, Ezra H., pension increased .
Brown, Francis G., pension increased .
Brown, Francis L., pension increased .
Brown, General M.,
pension...
Brown, Georgia D. (widow), pension increased .
Brown, Hamilton D., pension increased .

2212 2014 2721' 1581 1676 1653 1960

Brown, Harvey C. ,

pension increased .

1643

Brown, Helen S. (widow),

pension increased...

1984

Brown, Henry,

pension increased .

1606

Brown, Henry W.,

pension increased .

2183

Brown, Horace E.,

pension increased .

1677

Brown, Howard,

pension increased .

2346

Brown James A. M.,

pension increased.

1508

Brown, James F.,

pension increased .

2060

Brown, James J.,

pension increased .

2117

Brown, James M.,

pension increased .

2349

Brown, James N., pension increased .

Page. 2141

Brown, Joseph, jr. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

373

Brown, James Thompson,

pension increased .

1874

Brown, Jasper N.,

pension increased .

2505

Brown, Jerome L.,

pension increased .

2168

Brown, Jerusha Hayward (widow) ,

pension increased..

1638

Brown, John, Indiana Volunteers,

pension increased ..

1854

Brown, John, Tennessee Volunteers,

pension increased .

2588

Brown, John B.,

Indian_depredation claim of, referred to

Court of Claims.....

2411

Brown , John C.,.

pension increased .:

2283

Brown, John F. ,

pension increased .

2161

Brown, John L.,

pension increased .

2331

Brown, John R.,

pension increased ..

1825

Brown, Lucy (widow) , pension...
Brown, Margarette E. ( widow), pension increased .:

... 2073 1944

Brown, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ...

2663

Brown, Milton,

pension increased...

2611

Brown, Samuel,

pension increased .

2350

Brown, Talcott M.,

pension increased .

2592

Brown, Thaddeus C. S. , pension increased.

2047

Brown, Thomas, pension increased .
Brown, Thomas J., pension increased .

1907 2775

Brown, Washington M.,

pension increased .

2568

Brown, William,

pension increased .

1907

Brown, William A. ,

pension increased .

2574

Brown, William, and Levi B. Gritis, may bring suit in Court of Claims for Cherokees to determine validity of

laws restricting alienation, etc ....... 1028

Brown, William B. C.,

deficiency appropriation for services....

43

Brown, William C. , and Others,

may bridge Wabash River, Mount Carmel,

Ill ..

820

Brown, William H. , Massachusetts Volunteers,

pension increased .

2713

Brown, William H., Ohio Volunteers,

pension increased.

2803

Brown,William H. , U. S. Colored Volun-

teers ,

pension increased .

1548

Brown, William H. , West Virginia Volunteers ,

pension increased..

1786

Browne, John, pension increased ..

2174

Brownewell, S. D. ,

payment to .

2661

3342

INDEX.

Browning, Mont.,

Page.

grant of lands, Blackfeet Reservation , to

mission of Methodist Episcopal

Church near...

1036

Browns Creek, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of .................... 1078

Brownsville, Pa., bridge authorized across Monongahela

River at..

128

Bruce, David,

pension increased ..

1700

Bruce, Theodore T. (son),

pension...

2359

Bruce, Winfield S.,

pension increased ..

1810

Bruder, John M.,

pension increased .

2523

Brumm, Charles,

pension increased .

2488

Brummett, George W.,

pension increased ..

1591

Brundege, Nehemiah M.,

pension increased .

1855

Brunell, Joseph, sr.,

pension increased .

1555

Bruner, George,

pension increased ..

1584

Bruno, John B. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

365

Brunot, Josephine, Indian Alioltee,

alienation restrictions removed..

374

Brunson, Susan M. (widow),

pension increased .

2377

Brunson, William N.,

pension increased .

2818

Brunswick, Ga. ,

appropriation for light vessel ....

711, 1317

for improvement of; contracts..

1085

report of discrimination of wharf privi-

leges ..

1085

granted entry immediate transportation

privileges.

880

limit of cost increased , light vessel at outer

bar..

323

Brunswick, Germany,

classification and salary of consul .

100

Brusie, Eliza (widow),

pension increased ..

2427

Brussels, Belgium,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire...

293, 924

Bryan, John A. ,

pension increased..

2025

Bryant, Abby J. (widow),

pension increased ..

2474

Bryant , James A.,

pension increased ..

2131

Bryant, James C.,

pension increased..

2070

Bryant. John,

pension increased ..

2522

Bryson, Cynthia M. (widow),

pension increased .

2753

Bubonic Plague,

appropriation for prevention of epidemic .. 709 , 1316

Bucey, Jesse,

pension increased..

1783

Buchanan, Edna (widow),

pension...

2166

Buchanan, Emma F. (widow),

pension increased ..

2577

Buchanan, John N.,

pension increased.

1753

Buchanan, Nathaniel, pension increased ..

Page. 1567

Buchmann, Peter,

pension increased ..

2628

Buck, Alexander,

pension increased..

2609

Buck, Argyle Z.,

pension increased.

1815

Buck, Bowman H. ,

pension increased.

2593

Buck, Charles M.,

pension increased..

2651

Buck, Nathaniel Y. ,

pension increased ..

2555

Buckland, Lee H.,

pension increased ..

1452

Buckley, James, pension increased..

1814 .

Buckley, John M. ,

pension increased..

1484

Buckley, Thomas, alias Dennis Buckley Mc-

Cready,

pension increased ..

1491

Buckner, David,

pension increased ..

1935

Buckthal, Herman,

pension increased..

2065

Budapest, Hungary,

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

Budden, George,

pension increased..

1802

Buehrle, Frederick,

pension increased..

2705

Buenos Ayres, Argentine Republic, classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.............

294, 924

Buffalo Bayou, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ..

738, 1092

Buffalo Chip, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

356

Buffalo Gap, S. Dak. , conveyance to Lyman Ballou of lands in .. 891

Buffalo, Michel, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.....

381

Buffalo, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building, marine

hospital...

697

for improvement of harbor, repairing

breakwaters ...

1077

for completing breakwaters, dredging,

etc.

1077

granted entry immediate transportation

privileges....

168

light-keeper's dwelling on Horseshoe Reef. 323

deficiency appropriation for..

659

tunnel for water supply out into Lake

Erie authorized ....

532

Buffalo, Wyo . , sale of lands to, for park, etc., authorized .. 930

Buffaloes,
tract in Stanley County, S. Dak. , may be leased as pasture for.
Buffington, Jeremiah, pension increased ..

61 . 2498

Buffington, John J.,

pension increased .

1648

Buffon, Hugh P.,

pension increased .

1542

Bugbee, Orange,

pension increased .

2087

Buggie, James,

pension increased ..

1555

Buhinhda, Thomas , Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled ....

361

INDEX.

3343

Buice, Eliza M. (widow), pension increased..

Page. 2092

Building Lines, D. C.,

establishing, on streets less than 90 feet

wide ..

384

petitions; authority of Commissioners .

384

condemnation proceedings ; assessment .

384

present projections; control of street park-

ings .

385

appropriation available .

385

prior act repealed ...

385

concurrence of all Commissioners neces-

sary for extensions beyond, here-

after...

385

approval of Secretary of War if land ad-

joins public reservation....

385

Buildings, D. C.,

electric plants in executive or municipal,

prohibited; exception ......

1371

fire escapes, etc. , required on tenements,

etc., three or more stories high .

70

fire-escape regulations modified ; owner's

responsibility .

1247

fireproof office buildings ...

1247

inspector of, to serve on board for condemn-

ing insanitary buildings ....

157

Buildings, D. C. , Condemnation of Insanitary,

board for, created; powers and duties...

157

appropriation for expenses condemning,

etc.

496, 1132

Buildings, D. C., Unsafe, etc. , appropriation for survey, removing, etc. 489, 1126.

Bujac, Etienne De P. , deficiency appropriation for.... payment to..

1374 2308

Bulgaria, appropriation for diplomatic agent in ... 287, 917

for secretary of diplomatic agency. 287, 917 reciprocal commercial agreement with .... 3231
Bull, Thomas, Sarah, and Lillie, Yankton

Sioux Allottees, patents issued to, may be canceled ........ 373

Bullard, Henry M.,

pension increased ..

2437

Bullard, James M.,

pension increased .

2415

Bullard, Jane E. (widow),

pension increased..

1681

Bullion and Coin, appropriation for freight on.. deficiency appropriation for freight on .

409, 955
31 , 639, 1376

Bullis, Spencer S. , payment to, for dredging channel , etc. ,

Ship Island Harbor to Gulfport,

Miss ...

833

annulment of contract with, for channel,

Mississippi Sound.

1088

Bullock, Rutson J. ,

pension increased.

2318

Buncher, Frank,

pension increased ..

1519

Bunker, Eliza A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1766

Bunting, Eli,

pension increased..

2348

Broyage, appropriation for expenses..

712, 1320

deficiency appropriation for expenses .. 48 , 1405

Burdick, Franklin,

pension increased .

2137

Bureau for Publication of Customs Tariffs (see International Bureau for Publi-
cation of Customs Tariffs ) .

Bureau for Repression of Slave Trade (see In- Page. ternational Bureau for Repression of African Slave Trade).
Bureau, International Sanitary ( see International Sanitary Bureau).
Bureau, International Permanent Court of Arbitration (see International Bureau, Permanent Court of Arbitra-
tion) .

Bureau of American Republic , International,

appropriation for expenses..

291 , 921

for site and contribution for building... 758

for printing and binding.

761 , 1368

deficiency appropriation for printing and

binding....

1398

invited to make an exhibit at Jamestown

Exposition ....

764

Bureau of Animal Industry (see Animal Industry Bureau, Department of Agriculture) .

Bureau of Biological Survey (see Biological Survey Bureau).

Bureau of Chemistry (see Chemistry Bureau, Department of Agriculture).

Bureau of Construction and Repair, Navy,

appropriation for clerks, etc.

426, 972.

draftsmen, etc. , may be paid from

"Increase of the Navy"

426, 975

for construction , etc. , vessels

573, 1195

limit wooden ships.

573, 1192

other ships ; annual report of proposed

repairs

1195

restoring "Constitution '

573

balance, 1904, reappropriated . for construction plants ...

573 573, 1195

for civil establishment .

574, 1196

for construction of new vessels .

583, 1204

deficiency appropriation for construction 4

and repair....

7,

648, 652, 666, 1386, 1402, 1405

Bureau of Corporations (see Corporations Bureau, Department of Commerce and

Labor) .

Bureau of Education (see Education , Bureau of).

Bureau of Engraving_and_Printing (see Engraving and Printing Bureau).
Bureau of Entomology (see Entomology Bureau, Department of Agriculture) .

Bureau of Equipment, Navy, appropriation for clerks, etc ..

423, 969

draftsmen, etc. , may be paid from

"Increase of the Navy".

426, 972

for equipment of vessels .

559, 1181

for wireless telegraph stations on Pacific

coast ...

560

for coal and transportation .

560, 1182

for contingent.. for ocean and lake surveys .

560, 1182 560, 1182

for civil establishment..

560, 1182

for public works under.. for equipment of new vessels .

568, 1191 1204

deficiency appropriation for coal and trans-

portation..

35, 648, 666, 1385

for contingent

35, 648, 651, 666, 1385, 1402

for equipment of vessels ... 648 , 651 , 1385, 1402

for ocean and lake surveys .

651 , 1585

for equipment of new vessels..

885

Bureau of Forestry ( see Forest Service , Depart-

ment of Agriculture).

Bureau of Immigration, Department of Commerce and Labor (see Immigration and Naturalization Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor).

3344

INDEX.

Bureau of Insular Affairs (see Insular Affairs Page, Bureau, War Department).

Bureau of Labor (see Labor Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor) .

Bureau of Manufactures (see Manufactures Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor).

Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Navy, appropriation for clerks , etc... for public works under...

426, 972 568, 1191

for surgeons' necessaries and civil estab-

lishment .

569, 1191

for hospitals..

569, 1191

for contingent ..

569, 1191

for transporting remains..

570, 1192

for repairs..

570, 1192

forhospital for laborers, Guantanamo.. 1192

deficiency appropriation for contingent..

36,

648, 652, 1386, 1402

for surgeons' necessaries.....

648, 652, 1386

Bureau of Navigation, Department of Commerce and Labor (see Navigation Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor).

Bureau of Navigation, Navy, appropriation for clerks, etc. for transportation....

423, 969 555, 1177

allowanceto enlisted men on discharge. 555

for recruiting..

555, 1177

evidence of age required .

555, 1177

for contingent ....

555, 1177

for gunnery exercises ..

556, 1178

for outfits, enlisted men and appren-

tices ...

556, 1178

for maintenance of colliers...

556

for maintenance of naval auxiliaries .

1178

for training station , California..

556, 1178

Rhode Island ..

556, 1178

Great Lakes..

556, 1178

for War College..

557, 1179

for Naval Home..

557, 1179

for public works under...

567, 1189

deficiency appropriation for transportation. 46,

1385, 1386, 1402

for transportatior , recruiting, and con-

tingent....

46, 647, 650, 1385, 1402

for outfits on first enlistment . 46, 647, 666, 1385

for outfits, naval apprentices...... 46, 647, 1402

for colliers...

46,647, 666, 1385

for outfits, for landmen . for War College.. for contingent .. for gunnery exercises ..

647 650, 1385
1385 1385, 1402

Bureau of Ordnance, Navy, appropriation for clerks , etc :.

426, 972

draftsmen, etc., may be paid from

"Increase of the Navy"..

426, 972

for ordnance and ordnance stores; restric-

tion ....

557, 1179

for modernizing batteries, " Massachu-

setts" and Oregon".

558

for new guns and armor, " New York".

558

forammunition, etc. , for new ships ..

1180

for smokeless powder..

558, 1180

for machine tools at yards and sta-

tions ......

558, 1180

fornaval gun factory .

558, 1180

for modernizing battery of " Iowa" .

1180

for modernizing batteries of " Monterey" and. "Monadnock" ...
for new turret sights for monitors... for new battery " Brooklyn" . for modifying, etc. , forty-caliber mounts .

1180 1180 · 1180 1180

Bureau of Ordnance, Navy-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for fire-control instruments

for battle ships, etc.

1180

for mines and appliances....

1180

for torpedoes; converting destroyers, etc. 1180

forreserve powder and shell ..

558, 1180

for reserve guns for ships...

558, 1180

for reserve torpedoes, etc.; equipment of

torpedo factory .

1180

for torpedo station ..

558, 1180

for naval militia..

558, 1181

for repairs.....

558, 1181

for miscellaneous ..

558-1181

for civil establishment

558, 1181

for public works, magazines..

567, 1181

for armor and armament of new ves-

sels .

583, 1204

deficiency appropriation for contingent

47 ,

647, 651, 666, 1385, 1387, 1402, 1405

for ordnance and ordnance stores ..

647 ,

650, 1385, 1387, 1402

for torpedo station.

647, 1385

Bureau of Plant Industry (see Plant Industry

Bureau, Department of Agriculture). Bureau of Soils (see Soils Bureau, Depart-
ment of Agriculture).

Bureau of Standards (see Standards Bureau, Department of Commerce and

Labor). Bureau of Statistics, Department of Agricul-

ture (see Statistics Bureau, Department of Agriculture).

Bureau of Statistics, Department of Commerce and Labor (see Statistics Bureau, Department of Commerce and

Labor).

Bureau of Steam Engineering, Navy, appropriation for clerks, etc..

426, 971

draftsmen, etc. , may be paid from

"Increase of the Navy" .

426, 972

for steam machinery .....

575, 1197

for materials, etc. , yards and stations. 575 , 1197

for incidental expenses..

575, 1197

for machinery plants...

575, 1197

for experimental station, Naval Acad-

emy..

575, 1197

for civil establishment ..

576, 1198

for steam machinery, new vessels 583, 1204 for earthquake service, Mare Island, Cal. 168

deficiency appropriation for steam machin-

ery..

47, 649, 652, 1386, 1402

Bureau of Supplies and Accounts , Navy, appropriation for clerks, etc .. for provisions ..... navy rations modified .

426, 972 570, 1192
570

issues of rations ; balances reappropri-

ated ......

1193

for contingent; reappropriation.
small purchases in open market . for freight.. for civil establishment..

571, 1193 1193
571, 1193 571, 1193

deficiency appropriation for freight .

36

for provisions ...... 47, 648, 666, 1386, 1402, 1405

for contingent.

47 , 648, 652, 1386, 1402

for James E. Bly

1387

Bureau of Weights and Measures, Interna-

tional (see International Bureau of

Weights and Measures).

Bureau of Yards and Docks, Navy, appropriation for clerks, etc..

427, 972

draftsmen, etc. , may be paid from

"Public Works ".

427, 972

for maintenance ..

561; 1183

for contingent...

561 , 1183

for civil establishment..

561, 1183

INDEX.

3345

Bureau of Yards and Docks, Navy- Cont'd. Page.

appropriation for public works........ 564, 1186

for preparing plans and specifications,

etc ..

566, 1188

for repairs and preservation .

566, 1189

deficiency appropriation for maintenance. 648,

651, 1385

for repairs and preservation .

649, 1386

for naval prison, Portsmouth , N. H ..

652

for Pensacola, storm damages...

1387

chief to be selected from civil engineers.. 564

Bureaus, Printingfor, cost of composition , illustrations, etc. , of

documents to be charged to office

preparing..

825

printing, binding, etc. , charged in pro-

portion to delivery..

825

Burger, Henry K.,

pension increased .

2572

Burgess, Benjamin F.,

pension increased

1930

Burgess, Charles W.,

pension increased..

2603

Burgess, Harriet U. (widow), pension increased .
Burgess, James S., pension increased .
Burgess, Noel J., pension increased .

2771 2034 1930

Burgess, William T., · pension increased.
Burget, Aaron J., pension increased..
Burk, Patrick, pension increased .
Burke, Bartholomew, pension increased..
Burke, Jeremiah,  pension increased..
Burke, John, Massachusetts Volunteers, pension increased .

2020 1854 1837 2766 2767 2800

Burke, John, U. S. Infantry,

pension increased

2041

Burket, Marquis De Lafayette,

pension increased .

1577

Burkhardt, Jacob R.,

1

pension increased:

2348

Burks, John M., payment to.nl
Burks, William F., pension increased

.1 2306 701764

Burleigh, Charles H., pension increased .
Burlingame, Anna F. (widow), pension, increased 15

J. 1624 15 ) *** 00 Tot
602492

Burlington, Vt.,
appropriation for public building . G ) for improvement of harbor....

697 1345

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, furniture...

1374

limit of cost increased, public building ..

Es appropriation for.. Burlock, Samuel J.,

at 10

pension increased

Burnet, Edward .,

pension increased

774 789
1659 2694

Burnett, Madison Marato

pension...

1797

Burnett, William F.,

pension increased

2712

Burnham, Martha L. (widow),

pension increased .

2648

Burns, John, New York Volunteer Artillery,

pension increased

1608

Burns, John, New York Volunteer Infantry, pension increased
Burns, Oliver J., pension increased .

Page. 1793
2532

Burns, Peter,

pension increased

1642

Burns, William H. , Alabama Volunteers,

pension increased

2378

Burns, William H. , Wisconsin Volunteers,

pension increased .

2208

Burns, William N. J., pension increased .
Burnwell Coal and Coke Company, may bridge Tug Fork of Big Sandy River near Sprigg, W. Va...

1910 1234

Burr, Mary L. (widow),

pension increased .

1835

Burris, Samuel Sydney,

added to Choctaw final roll....

340

Burriss, Gideon M.,

pension..

2110

Burroughs, Mary J. (widow),

pension increased

2358

Burslem, England,

classification and salary of consul..

99

appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

Burt, Charles C.,

pension increased

2448

Burtch, Edward, pension increased

1965-32792

Burton, George W., pension increased

#aprosi lissour& Invraam browns1774

Burton, Henry B., pension increased
Burton, John N., pension increased .

Hull J¶ heumubri.actor1633
...M..miol boztatni.noin 2201

Burton, John W., pension increased .

barroyoni.J1668

Burwell, Capt. W. T., Navy,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment..

.-b.cosulit 1392

Busbee, Elizabeth B. (widow) , 1569911 qoz £19¶¶

pension increased .

1803

Busby, James M., pension increased .

obru, mikl . 1686

Busby, L. W.,

deficiency appropriation for services... 662, 1397

Bush Creek, Va. ,

deficiency appropriation for dredging, for

life-saving exhibit , Jamestown ExD )

position...

1979-09 887

Bush, Jefferson,

pension increased

2285

Bush, Thomas,

pension increased ! ..

1481

Bushman, Margaret, " appropriation for payment .

68161 10799349

Buskirk, John V. , pension increased
Bussell, John B., pension increased

ai soi Todos002562

tortegge

12082

Bussey, David, alias George Brown,

pension increased .

2171

Butchers, Retail,

excepted from general provisions of meat-

inspection law.

679, 1265

Butler, Albert, pension increased

b.

1941

Butler and Vale, ',

Court of Claims to determine suit of, for

services as attorneys, Colville Res-

ervation cession..

378

Butler, Elizabeth A. (widow),

pension increased

1789

3346

INDEX.

Butler, James, pension increased
Butler, James T., pension increased .

Page. 2380
1695

Butler, Mary E. C. (widow),

pension increased.

2778

Butler, Odom,

pension increased

2178

Butlin, George R.,

deficiency appropriation for services ...

1391

·Butte County, S. Dak. , I

grant for cemetery to Scandinavian, etc.,

congregation...

122

Butte, Mont.,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized...

775

appropriation for..

790

Button, Frank, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

381

Button, Sylvester, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

381

Butts, Jacob B.,

pension increased .

2516

Buxbaum, Julius,

pension increased .

1897

Buxton, John M.,

pension increased .

2463

Buzzards Bay, Mass.,

deficiency appropriation for light-vessel , to replace Hen and Chickens.... 659, 1317
light-vessel established, entrance to....... 322

Buzzell, George W.,

pension increased .

2582

Buzzell, Henry H. ,

pension increased .

2722

Byers, John M.,

pension increased .

2160

Byles, Emma (widow) ,

pension increased .

2208

Bynon, William H. ,

pension increased

1581

Byrd, Thomas J.,

pension increased

2093

Byrne, Sylvester,

pension increased

2699

Byron, Eliza (widow),

pension....

1878

C.

Cabana, Reuben, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Cabinet Forest Reserve, Mont. and Idaho,

proclamation establishing..

3295

Cabinet, President's,

compensation of members of, established . 993

Cable Cars, Postal Service,

appropriation for mail service by ...... 474, 1213

Cache River, Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1093

Caddo Lake, Tex.,

preliminary examination of, to be made;

dam ..

1117

Cadets, Revenue- Cutter Service,

appointment and service of..

452

Cadieux, Joseph N.,

pension increased

2385

Cadmus, Sarah E. (widow ),

pension increased .

2547

Cadwell, Harry C.,

pension increased .

2654

Cage, Josephine M. (widow),

pension increased

1760

Cahney, Reuben H. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Cahoon, Benjamin B.,

Page.

pension increased

1898

Cain, Isaac,

pension increased

2499

Cain, James,

pension increased

1663

Cain, John,

pension increased

2091

Cairo and Tennessee Railroad Company,

may bridge Cumberland River between

Celina, Tenn., and Bakertown , Ky. 1254

Lineport, Tenn., and Tennessee Rolling

Works, Ky...

58, 1254

former act repealed..

1254

may bridge Tennessee River between

Brandons Mill and Birmingham ,

Ky ... former act repealed..

56, 1253 1253

Cairo, Egypt,

appropriation for agent and consul-general

at...

287, 917

for clerk hire..

294, 924

Calais, France,

classification and salary of consul...

99

Calais, Me.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

777

appropriation for.. Calcasieu River, La. ,

.... 791 , 1296

appropriation for improvement of mouth

and passes..

1089

Calcutta, India,

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire.....

294, 924

Caldwell, Alexander,

pension increased.

2077

Caldwell, Joseph F., pension increased.
Calgary, Canada, appropriation for consul..
Calhoun, Edgar W., pension increased
Calhoun Falls,

-1616 293, 923
1698

dam , etc., authorized across Savannah

River at..

1240

California,

appropriation for Indian service in .............. 333, 1022

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in ...

333, 1022

for agricultural lands for Indians ; irriga-

tion; surveys, etc ....

333

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc....... 434, 980

for naval training station..

556, 1178

for naval training station, buildings .

1189

for postal emergencies, earthquake....

168 .

deficiency appropriation for reproducing

plats, surveyor-general's office, de-

stroyed by earthquake..

653

for incidentals, Indian service in..

655

cooperation with, for relief of earthquake

sufferers ..

827

counties in forest reserves excepted from rights to entry of lands..
Diamond Mountain Forest Reserve, established .
enlarged .. five per cent of cash sales of public lands in,
granted for common schools ... Klamath Forest Reserve, established . Lake Tahoe Forest Reserve, enlarged and
name changed .... lands to be set apart, etc. , to Mission In-
dians ....

233
3113 3241
518 3001
3163 1022

Lassen Peak Forest Reserve, established .. 3063

Monterey Forest Reserve, established

3218

INDEX .

3347

California-Continued . permits for power plants, etc. , in San Bernardino, Sierra, and San Gabriel forest reserves....
Pinnacles Forest Reserve, established Plumas Forest Reserve, established .

Page.
163 3221 2992

prosecutions for illegally fishing in Alaska

may be in district courts...

264

violations of Alaska salmon fisheries act

may be in.....

481

recession of Yosemite Valley and Mariposa

Big Tree Grove from, accepted ...

831

right of way to Los Angeles, through cer-
tain public lands and forest reserves . sales of timber on forest reserves.. San Jacinto Forest Reserve, enlarged ..

801
684 3276

San Luis Obispo Forest Reserve, estab-

lished ..

3217

Santa Barbara Forest Reserve, area en-

larged ..

3238

Shasta Forest Reserve, established

3157

enlarged

3235

Sierra Forest Reserve, area extended .

3133

Stanislaus Forest Reserve, area enlarged ... 3229

Stony Creek Forest Reserve, established .. 3273

Tahoe Forest Reserve , name of Lake Tahoe

Forest Reserve changed to, and area

enlarged..

3163

Tahoe Forest Reserve, Nev. and, area en-

larged, and Yuba Forest Reserve

added ..

3232

time extended for making final proofs , etc. , for lands in San Diego County.
Trinity Forest Reserve, established two sections of land reserved for Mission

1052 2998

Indians in, restored to public do-

main

3037

Yuba Forest Reserve, established

3184

consolidated with Tahoe Forest Reserve,

Nev. and ...

3232

California and Oregon Land Company,

exchange of lands owned by, in Klamath

Reservation ....

368

California Débris Commission, appropriation for expenses..

745, 1351

deficiency appropriation for expenses,

earthquake losses..

644

may authorize hydraulic mining without

reservoirs, etc. , if navigation not im-

paired ..

1001

no tax on gross proceeds, if license is

granted..

1002

California Earthquake (see San Francisco, Cal. ,

Earthquake)

California Northern Judicial District,

additional district judge authorized ..

1253

terms of court, Eureka...

631

California Southern Judicial District,

salary of district attorney .

754

marshal .

753

California Street, D. C. , part of T street changed to .
California Transportation Company, appropriation for reimbursing..
Call, Robert P., pension increased
Callaghan, Richard, pension increased
Callahan, Jeremiah, pension increased
Callahan, Martin, pension increased
Callan, Thomas F. , alias Thomas Cowan, granted honorable discharge ..

50 1292 2343 2234 1678 1722 2216-

Callao, Peru,

Page.

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire..

924'

Callaway, Albert L.,

pension increased

1851

Callender, John R. , pension increased .

... 2683

Callister, Gertrude E. , Indian Allottee, alienation restriction removed, heirs of.... 365

Callon, James B. F., pension increased .
Caloosahatchie River, Fla.,

2356

appropriation for improvement of.........

1086

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1112

Calor, Pleasant,

pension increased .

1906

Calumet, Ill.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1102 Calumet River, Ill. and Ind.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts.

738, 1102, 1345

bridge_authorized across, at Hammond,

Ind ..

877

Lake County, Ind ..

877

preliminary examination of, to be made. 1113

time extended for bridging, in Cook

County, Ill...

51

Calumet, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1101

Calvert, Agnes E. (widow),

pension increased .

2568

Calvin, Archibald H. R., pension increased .

2475

Calvo, José Martin,

may be admitted for instruction at Military

Academy .....

834

Camas, Mont.,

reservation of Indian lands around hot

springs near settlement of........

355

Cambridge, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1081

Camden, Me. ,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made ...

1113

Cameron, Allen M.,

pension..

2238

Cameron, John J.,

deficiency appropriation for..... ... 662, 1398

Cammeron, Mary Edna (widow),

pension...

1702

Camp Douglas, Wis. ,

appropriation for land , target range; con-

ditions ...

742

Campbell, Albert H.,

pension increased .

2341

Campbell, Angus,

pension increased .

2034

Campbell, Gabriel,

pension increased .

2448

Campbell, Henry, pension increased
Campbell, James W., pension increased .
Campbell, John, pension increased.
Campbell, John P. , numbered 2, pension increased
Campbell Lumber Company, may bridge Saint Francis River, County, Ark..
Campbell, Mahala F. (widow) , pension increased
Campbell, Martha S. (widow), pension increased .

... 2279 2534
.. 2350 1551
Clay 19, 20 2133 1701

3348

INDEX.

Campbell, Mary J. (widow), pension increased

Page. 1551

Campbell, Peter,

pension increased

2793

Campbell, Priscilla A, (widow),

pension increased

2326

Campbell, Reuben A.,

may be appointed assistant surgeon , Navy;

examination ..

632

Campbell, Samuel,

pension increased .

2254

Campbell, Samuel, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Campbell, Susan (widow) ,

pension increased.

2184

Campbell, Thomas D. ,

pension increased.

1965

Campbell, William D. ,

pension increased

2353

Campbell, William H. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

356

Campbell, William J.,

pension increased .

1590

Campbellton, New Brunswick,

classification and salary of consul ......

100

Canacao, Philippine Islands,

appropriation for naval medical supply

depot......

... 569, 1191

Canada,

appropriation for demarcation of boundary

under treaty of 1842 ..

292

for surveys to mark boundary between

Alaska and ..

292, 922

for marking boundary between United

States and.

923

admission of power generated from Niagara River in.. 626

consular invoice fee provision of Revised

Statutes, repealed .

101

residents of, not liable for immigration tax . 898

special rules for entry of aliens from...... 908

Canada Blue Grass, tests, etc. , of seeds .

681 , 1267

Canadian Boundary Waters Commission,

appropriation for continuing work of...

743

to report on action to preserve Niagara

Falls ....

824

Canadian Commission,

appropriation for preparing reports, etc. ,

of..

292

Canadian Pacific Railway Company,

deficiency appropriation for maintenance

of detained Chinese....

1393

Canal Boats, Steam,

subject to steamboat inspection require-

ments ..

.68, 194

Canal, Lake Erie and Ohio River Ship, authority granted for construction of...... 809

Canal, Panama (see Isthmian Canal).

Canal, Ship,

from Lake Washington to Puget Sound ,

Wash., authorized ..

231

Canal Zone see also Isthmian Canal) ,

appropriation for relief and protection of

shipwrecked seaman..

295, 925

acknowledgment of deeds, etc. , affecting lands in District of Columbia or

Territories ...

552

aliens from, subject to same conditions on

entering United States as other

aliens ..

908

lock canal to be constructed .

611

Canal Zone, Government of,

appropriation for officers and employees 762, 1369

for labor..

762 , 1369

Canal Zone, Government of-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for materials , supplies, labor,

etc

762, 1369

for officers, etc. , sanitation department 762 , 1369

for labor, sanitation department

762, 1369

for materials, etc. , sanitation depart

ment .

762, 1369

ten per cent interchangeable.

1370

reports of, to be made annually.

5

revenues of, distributed ; statement to be

made to Congress ..

1370

Canals, etc.,

construction authorized , at Lock and Dam

No. 1 , White River, Ark..

536

Canandaigua, N. Y. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for.. Canarsie Bay, N. Y.,

793, 1296

appropriation for improvement of harbor... 1077

Canary, Abraham I.,

pension increased.

2053

Canasco, Juan, pension increased .

1995

Canceling Machines , Postal Service,

appropriation for rental or purchase , etc. 471 , 1210 Candy Adulterations (see Pure Food Act) . Cane River, Natchitoches Parish, La.,

repeal of law declaring , not a navigable

water..

618

Caney Fork River, Tenn. ,
appropriation for improvement of....... Canfield, Byron,
pension increased

1093 2284

Canfield, Charles M., pension increased

2675

Canfield, Levi A., pension increased .

2164

Canfield, Luther H.,

pension increased .

2667

Cannedy, Martin V.,

pension increased ..

1732

Cannell, Sarah E. (widow),

pension increased..

2303

Canning Establishments, Meat, sanitary inspection of, etc ..

676, 1262

Cannon, Mountain , etc. ,

appropriation for purchase , manufacture,

etc....

463, 1059

Canon City, Colo. ,

granted lands containing Royal Gorge for

a park ..

238 .

Canova, Andrew,

pension increased .

2522

Cantine, Nicholas S., pension increased .

2625

Canton, China,

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.....

293, 924

session of United States court in.

814

Canton, S. Dak.,

appropriation for asylum for, insane In-

dians..

371, 1048

for laundry.

1048

deficiency appropriation for asylum for

insane Indians ..

39

for care of insane persons in Indian Ter-

ritory at...

39

insane Indians, Indian Territory, to be

cared for at asylum ....

346, 1029

Cape Arago, Oreg.,

light station established at .

996

appropriation for....

1319

INDEX.

3349

1

Cape Charles City, Va.,

Page. Capitol Buildings and Grounds , Superintend- Pag .

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1082 .

ent of-Continued .

Cape Cod Pilgrims' Memorial Association, appropriation for aid in erecting monument to first landing of Pilgrims.... 225
Cape Fear River, N. C.,

appropriationmor engineers, etc. , Senate . 391, 937

duties in supervising, etc. , office building

for House of Representatives .

1365

estimates to be submitted .......

1366

appropriation for lighting.

713, 1320

for improvement of, above Wilmington . 1083

at and below Wilmington ; contracts;

Capitol Police,

appropriation for captain , lieutenants, etc. 392, 938

for contingent expenses .

392, 938

use of balance .

737, 1083, 1345

reexamination of, above Wilmington ...... 1084

deficiency appropriation for extra month's

pay .

660, 1394

Cape Girardeau, Mo. ,

to be paid December, 1905 , salaries, De-

acquiring site and erecting public building

cember 20.

821

at, authorized ..

780

December, 1906 , salaries, December 20 .. 1418

;

appropriation for .

793, 1296 Capron, Gilbert F.,

Cape Gracias, Nicaragua,

pension increased .

1474

classification and salary of consul....

100 Car Companies,

Cape Haitien, Haiti, classification and salary of consul ......... 100

confinement of animals in interstate transit

by, limited ..

607

Cape May, N. J.,

time for rest, feeding, and watering re-

appropriation for improving Cold Spring

quired.

607

Inlet; contracts, etc...

1079 Car Supply, Railroad,

Cape Mendocino, Cal.,

investigation ordered of systems of, coal or

light-keeper's dwelling authorized ........

323

oil traffic.....

823

appropriation for rebuilding.....

710 Carabelle, Fla.,

Cape Porpoise, Me., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1073

appropriation for improvement of bar and

harbor..

1086

Cape Spartel Light, Morocco,

Carbon County, Wyo. ,

appropriation for contribution to ...... 289, 919 land grants to State for institutions , may

Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope,

be exchanged..............

92

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99 Carbondale, Pa.,

appropriation for clerk hire. for foreign hospital...
Capital City Improvement Company, may dam Missouri River, Mont ..

293, 924 295, 925
111

Capital Representative, to be appointed a trustee Foundation for Promotion of Industrial Peace ...... 1242

Capitol, appropriation for repairs, etc. for reroofing terrace..

722, 1330 723

for revolving doors at entrances .

723

for heating, lighting, and power plant ... 1331

for metal cases, Supreme Court ...

1331

for ventilating fan, etc. , Senate Chamber. 1331

for cleaning works of art ..

723, 1331

for improving grounds .

723, 1331

for lighting buildings and grounds .. 723, 1331

for repairs, stable, etc ... for trees, etc. , grounds of.

723, 1331 734, 1342

deficiency appropriation for repairs, etc. 36, 1402

for heating, lighting, and power plant ;

limit of cost increased ..

36

for Senate office building, subway .

37

for W. H. Green ...

653

for John Brady.

653

for Senate kitchen

653

for W. B. Moses and Sons .

1388

for R. Lowen, C. Morgan, and E. Bailey,

for injuries..

1388

for painting Dome, revolving doors , etc. 1388

Barry monument not to be located in

grounds of .

224

John Paul Jones monument not to be lo-

cated in grounds of.......

224

Capitol Building and Grounds,

appropriation for Superintendent, clerks,

etc.

433, 979

for laborers, etc

433, 979

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

783

appropriation for.

795

Carder, Thomas,

pension increased ..

1720

Cardiff, Wales,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Carel, Frederick,

pension increased ..

2443

Carey, Francis,

pension increased ..

1527

Carey, Sallie, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

346

Carey, Thomas F.,

pension increased .

1818

Caribou Forest Reserve, Idaho and Wyo. ,

proclamation establishing...

3267

Carley, James M.,

pension increased..

1815

Carlisle, Pa.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for.. for Indian school

793, 1296 369, 1046

deficiency appropriation for Indian school ; transportation ........
for returning pupils to Alaska .. Carlisle, William N.,
pension increased .. Carll, Samuel P.,
pension increased . Carlsbad, Austria,
classification and salary of consul . Carlton , Samuel E. ,
pension increased .

655 655 2647 1578
99 1913

Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.
incorporated ; objects, trustees, powers, etc. 59
Carnegie Library, D. C.,

Capitol Buildings and Grounds, Superintend-

ent of,

appropriation for, engineer, clerks, etc .. 433, 979

for engineers, etc. , House of Representa-

tives....

393, 938

appropriation for .. Carney, Robert,
pension increased .. Carothers, Louisa M. (widow),
pension increased..

487, 1124 2114 2546

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-48

3350

INDEX.

Carpenter, Anna K. (widow), pension increased ..
Carpenter, Charles W. , pension increased .
Carpenter, Curtis A. , pension increased .
Carpenter, David A. , pension increased ..
Carpenter, Edward L., pension increased ..

Page. 1840 2395 1446 1523 2395

Carpenter, Elizabeth T. (widow),

pension increased....

1460

Carpenter, Ellen (widow),

pension increased .

2430

Carpenter, James, jr.,

pension increased..

2437

Carpenter, John , Illinois Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2628

Carpenter, John, Iowa Volunteers, pension increased ..
Carpenter, William H. M.,
pension.. Carquinez Strait , Cal. ,
light station established at. appropriation for..
Carr, Anson K., pension increased .

1840 2005
996 1319 1521

Carr, George T. B. ,

pension increased .

1564

Carr, Henry C. ,

pension increased .

1808

Carr, Jonathan,

pension increased .

1600

Carr, Louisa (widow) ,

pension increased .

2118

Carr, Samuel V.,

pension increased .

2550

Carr, William ,

pension increased..

1634

Carrier Interstate (see also Common Carrier),

definition of term....

587

Carriers,

forbidden to transport meats and meat prod-

ucts not inspected and passed ... 676,1262

Carroll, James,

.

may be appointed surgeon with rank of

major..

1057

Carroll, James A. ,

credit in accounts .

2819

Carroll, John M.,

pension increased ..

2111

Carroll, Margarett (widow), pension..
Carroll, Mary Rebecca (widow) , pension increased .
Carroll, Thomas B..
deficiency appropriation for services............... Carroll, William A.,
pension increased .
Carrollton, Mo. ,

1725 2507
43 2181

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

783

appropriation for. Carruth, Alexander W.,
pension increased .
Carson, Nev. , appropriation for Indian school .. for mint at..

795
.... 2108 358, 1040 413, 960

Cartagena, Colombia,

classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Carter, Charles,

pension increased .

2381

Carter, Henrietta G. (widow),

pension increased ..

2202

Carter, Horatio,

pension increased .

1454

Carter, Isaac,
pension.. Carter, Isaiah,
pension increased . Carter, Thomas W.,
pension increased .

Page. 2259
2651
2150

Carter, William W.,

pension increased .

2027

Carter, Zadick, pension increased .

1801 .

Carters Creek, Va.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1082

Carthage, Mo.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for ....

793, 1296

Carthage, Tenn.,

time extended for bridging Cumberland

River by.

51

Carty, Ida (widow) ,

pension..

1788

Cary, William,

pension increased ..

1968

Casa Grande Ruin, Ariz.,

appropriation for custodian of..

726, 1334

for protecting, etc ..

729, 1310

authority, etc., of United States over, con-

tinued ..

281

Casavaw, Joseph,

pension increased ..

2808

Cascade Forest Reserve, Oreg.,

proclamation enlarging.

3300

Cascade Range Forest Reserve, Oreg.,

proclamation enlarging.

3270

name changed to Cascade..

3300

Case, Anna M. (mother),

pension...

1582

Case, Cyrus S. ,

pension increased .

2030

Case, Emma (widou),

pension increased.

2786

Casey, Andrew,

pension increased .

2406

Casey, Catherine B. (widow), pension....
Casey, Henry W., pension increased .

1595 : 2804

Casey, Joshua B.,

pension increased .

2366

Cash, Marcellus,

pension increased .

2705

Caskey, James T.,

pension increased .

1911

Casper, John F.,

pension increased .

2468

Cass County, Minn.,

dam authorized across Crow Wing River between Morrison County and......
Cassady, James, pension increased ..
Cassia Forest Reserve, Idaho,
proclamation establishing..

296 1624 3099

Cassidy, John H.,

pension increased .

1512

Cassle, George W.,

pension increased ..

2584

Castellamare di Stabia, Italy . classification and salary of consul ........ 100

Castinette, Louis,

return from President requested of bill to

pension

2838

Castleman, Kenneth G.,

may be appointed lieutenant in the Navy. 634

to be carried as additional number;

allowance for former service ..

634

INDEX .

3351

Castlow, William J., pension increased .
Castner, Algernon E. , pension increased .

Page. 1430
2327

Castor, G. A. , late a Representative in Congress,

deficiency appropriation for widow ..

661

Castor, George E. , alias George E. Coster,

pension increased ,

2643

Caswell, Oscar B.,

pension increased .

1615

Caswell, Stoddard,

pension increased .

2755

Cat River, Va., preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

Catalogue of Scientific Literature, Interna-

tional,

appropriation for preparation of..

704, 1310

Catania, Italy,

classification and salary of consul .

100

Cate, Lewis H. ,

pension increased..

1486

Catholic Congregation , Pensacola, Fla.,

title of land released to...

2822

Catlettsburg, Ky.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized..

782

appropriation for .

795

Catlin, Robert (son) ,

pension ...

1506

Caton, Giles M. (son),

pension ...

2451

Catterson, Robert F. ,

pension increased .

1455

Cattle (see also Animal Industry Bureau),

appropriation for inspection of.

673, 1259

confinement of, in interstate transit without

unloading, etc. , forbidden .

607

provisions for inspection, etc., of, carcasses,

and products, in interstate and for-

eign commerce...

674, 1260

Cattle Fever, Southern,

appropriation for eradicating ticks com-

municating .

696, 1281

Cattle, Report on Diseases of,

regulations as to extra copies of documents

not applicable to...

1013

Cauley, John R.,

pension increased.

2656

Cavalry and Field Artillery School of Application, Fort Riley, Kans.,

appropriation for instruction expenses . 240, 1158

Cavanaugh, Dominick,

pension increased .

1656

Cavanaugh, John C. , alias John Carpenter,

pension increased ..

1574

Caverly, John,

pension increased...

1946

Cavite, Philippine Islands,

appropriation for public works , naval sta-

tion ..

1188

Cayuse, etc., Indians, Oreg., appropriation for support, etc., of. ... 367, 1045

Cedar Bayou, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of...

1091

Cedar Point, Ala. ,

bridge authorized across Mobile Bay, be-

tween Dauphin Island and ....

10

Cedar Rapids, Iowa,

appropriation for public building, rent. 697, 1296

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized .

775

appropriation for..

790, 1296

sale of former public building and part of

site authorized ..

1237

terms of court..

912

Ceiba, Honduras, classification and salary of consul...
Celina, Tenn., bridge authorized across Cumberland
River between Bakertown , Ky . , and..
Cement, etc. , appropriation for investigating structural

Page. 100
1254

materials of...

728, 1335

Cemeteries ,

sales of public lands for, authorized ; limit,

etc.

1052

Census, Director of

appropriation for, statisticians, etc ..... 443, 988

to edit, etc. , Official Register..

219

Census, First,

names of heads of families in , to be pub-

lished ; sales ...

722

Census Office, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Director, statisticians ,

clerks, etc...

443, 988

for special agents, etc.

443, 989

for transcripts from registration records,

etc.

443, 989

for rent.

444, 989

for contingent expenses.

444, 989

for books, etc ..

444, 989

for tabulating returns.

444, 989

for printing and binding .

760, 1368

data of births in District of Columbia re-

quired for..

1010

investigation of condition of woman and

child workers by..

866

Official Register to be prepared by.

219

Special Reports to be made decennially ;

subjects modified ...

218

every five years, of street railways, elec-

tric, telephone, and telegraph busi-

ness

219

schedules; designation , etc.

219

special agents authorized ; pay.

219

to publish names of heads of families in

First Census ..

722

Center Eckington, D. C.,

vacation of Sixth , north of V street..

521

alley in block 21 , vacated ..

521

Central Canal and Irrigation Company,

may divert Sacramento River, Cal. , for

irrigation...

185

Central Colorado Power Company,

granted right of way over public lands in

Colorado, for irrigation and electric

plants ..

1227

Central Denaturing Bonded Warehouses,

establishment authorized ..

1250

transfer of alcohol to, for denaturing..

1250

Centralia, Ill.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for.

794

Cereals ,

appropriation for chemical, etc. , study

of...

686, 1272

Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis , D. C. , Epidemic, provisions to prevent spread of..
Cero, Eli, pension increased ....

889 2159

Certificates of Inspection, Steam Vessels ,

issue of temporary, for use until regular

document received ....

230

Certified Checks,

may be accepted as guaranty on bids and contracts for naval supplies ; amount 841

3352.

INDEX .

Chacey, Peter P., pension increased ..

Page . 1446

Chadron, Nebr.,

terms of court at.

998

Chadsey, Susan H. (widow),

pension..

1464

Chagnon, William,

pension increased .

2635

Chamberlain, Aaron,

pension increased.

2542

Chamberlain, Abijah,

pension increased .

1820

Chamberlain Land District, S. Dak. ,

certain homestead final proofs in Stanley

County accepted ..

121

Chamberlain, S. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 370, 1046

Chamberlain, Samuel E.,

pension increased.

1439

Chamberlin, Cutler A.,

pension increased .

1553

Chamberlin, Emma M. (widow),

pension increased .

2642

Chamberlin, George F.,

pension increased .

2692

Chamberlin, Simon E. ,

pension increased .

2749

Chambers, George,

pension increased .

1943

Chambers, Martha E. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1753

Chambers, Thomas J.,
pension.. Chambers, William E.,
pension increased . Chambersburg, Pa.,

. 1741 2104

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for.

795

Chandler, Joseph, jr.,

pension increased .

1665

Chandler, John M.,

pension increased .

2233

Chandler, Lewis P. ,

pension increased .

2033

Chandler, Okla. ,

grant of school section by Oklahoma legis-

lature to, authorized ..

1414

Chandler, Susan J. (widow),

pension..

2697

Chandler, Thomas , alias Thomas Cooper,

pension increased .

1704

Chandler, William,

pension increased .

1569

Chaplain,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives...

393, 938

for Senate...

389, 935

deficiency appropriation for, House of Rep-

resentatives .....

662

Chaplains, Army,

additional for artillery; rank, pay, etc .... 864

for Engineer Corps....

256

Chaplains, Navy,

pay and emoluments of, above grade of

lieutenant-commander...

554

in grade of lieutenant to receive sea pay

when on shore duty .

554

rank, pay, etc. , of appointments ; promo-

tions ...

554

present number not increased, nor pay re-

duced, of present officers .

555

Chapman, Bushman, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Chapman, Charles E.,

Page.

pension increased

1846

Chapman, Charles T. ,

pension increased .

2632

Chapman, Clinton A.,

pension increased .

1705

Chapman, Dewitt C.,

pension increased .

2653

Chapman, Edmund,

pension increased .

1739

Chapman, James R.,

pension increased .

2328

Chapman, Levi,

pension increased .

2297

Chapman, Mary C. (widow),

pension increased .

2072

Chapman, Nathan D. ,

pension increased .

2321

Chapman, Thomas,

pension increased

1807

Chapman, William H.,

pension increased .

1968

Chargés d'Affaires ad Interim,

appropriation for salaries.

287, 917

deficiency appropriation for salaries...

634 ,

1372, 1405

Charities and Corrections, D. C. , appropriation for Board of Charities ... for Washington Asylum ... for Home for Aged and Infirm . for transporting prisoners.. for medical charities...
for child-caring institutions .. for temporary homes.. for indigent insane for relief of the poor............. for transporting paupers....

508 , 1148 508, 1149 509, 1150 510, 1150 510, 1151 511, 1152 512, 1153 512, 1153 512, 1153 513 , 1153

Charleroi, Pa.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for......

793, 1296

Charles, Charles H.,

pension increased .

2158

Charleston and Saint Andrews Railway Com-

pany,

may bridge Ashley River, Charleston

County, S. C ....

877

Charleston County, S. C. , bridge authorized across Ashley River in....
Charleston Forest Reserve, Nev., proclamation establishing.

877 3252

Charleston Light and Water Company,

may dam Goose Creek, S. C .....

265

Charleston, S. C.,

appropriation for public works, navy-yard ;

dry dock..

565, 1187

for improvement of waterway between

McClellanville and .

1084

for improvement of harbor.. for construction of immigrant station . terms of court at..

1084 1415 1002

Charters and appropriati
new printing or Chase,Danie pension in Chase,Georg pension ir Chase , Geory granted h Chase,Joher
pension i Chase,John pension Chase ,Mel
pension Chase. Set pension Chase , Th
pension Chase, Wi Cpheantstaihoon
approp bridge
Lag Ster bridg
Chattar may
Chatta brid
enl
te Cha
Ch
C
(

Charlevoix, Mich. , appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1097

Charlotte, Fla., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1086

Charlotte, N. C.,

appropriation for assay office at..

415 , 962

Charlotte, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1078

Charlottesville, Va.,

terms of court at .

547

Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island,

classification and salary of consul..

100

INDEX.

3353

Charters and Constitutions, appropriation for purchase of manuscript of new edition of...... printing ordered ; distribution
Chase, Daniel S. , pension increased .
Chase, George C. , pension increased .
Chase, George H. ,
granted honorable discharge....... Chase, John A. ,
pension increased . Chase, John W.,
pension increased . Chase, Melissa (widow),
pension increased . Chase, Seth,
pension increased . Chase, Thomas M.,
pension increased . Chase, William E.,
pension increased. Chattahoochee River , Ga. and Ala.,
appropriation for improvement of... bridge authorized across, between Colum-
bus and Franklin, Ga.... Lagrange, Ga.. Steammill, Ga..
bridges authorized across, between Eufaula, Ala. , and Columbus, Ga .....

Page. 759 759
2169 1506 2408 2704 2089 1481 2377 2688 2794
1085 324 893 931 325

Chattanooga Northern Railway Company,

may bridge Tennessee River, Chattanooga,

Tenn ...

388

Chattanooga, Tenn . ,

bridge authorized across Tennessee River

at..

388

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized .

775

appropriation for . terms of court..

790, 1296 298, 882

Chauncey, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased .

1605

Cheat River, W. Va. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made.... 1118 Cheboygan , Mich. ,
appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1097 Checks, Lost, etc. ,

issue ofduplicates for; restriction removed . 84, 301

not exceeding $50 , after 30 days ....... 84 , 301

Cheek, Thomas,

pension...

1806

Cheesequake Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of.

1079

Cheevers, John M. ,

pension increased

2459

Chefoo, China, classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

Chefuncte River, La., appropriation for improvement of............ 1089

Chehalis Indians, Wash.,

claims of, to be investigated ..........

369

Chehalis River, Wash. ,

appropriation for improvement of.....

1108

Chelf, Simeon D. ,

pension increased .

2295

Chelsea, Mass.,

naval magazine to be discontinued ; sale of

grounds...

568

proceeds for modernizing hospital , etc .. 568

Chemicals, D. C. ,

regulations of sale of poisonous, etc ..

175

Chemistry Bureau, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries ..

685, 1271

for general expenses ...

685, 1271

Chemistry Bureau, Department of Agricul- Page. ture-Continued .

appropriation for investigating food , etc. ,

adulterations .

685, 1271

for investigating preservatives, etc ... 686, 1271

for inspecting food products for ex-

port ..

686, 1272

for dairy products investigations .

686, 1272

for study of cereals .....

686, 1272

for study of sugar and starch producing

plants ...

686, 1272

for investigating adulteration , false labeling, etc., of foods, drugs, etc., 'im-

ported ...

686

seizure of unwholesome, etc. , imports . 686

for executing pure-food law....

1272

report of payments to State officials,

etc.

1272

examinations under pure-food act by

769

certificate of violations ..

769

Chemnitz, Germany,

classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire...

99 294, 924

Cheney, Thomas P.,

pension increased

2285

Chenoweth, Mary J. (widow),

pension..

1541

Chenoweth, William J.,

pension increased .

1613

Cherokee Advocate,

publication continued for one year...............

345

Cherokee Claims , Consolidated,

deficiency appropriation for paying Court

of Claims judgments in...

664

Cherokee Indians (see also Five Civilized

Tribes),

appropriation for expenses leasing lands

of..

338, 1025

for establishing highways

339

for tribal schools ...

340, 1026

deficiency appropriation for expenses leas-

ing lands of.

39

for Edgar Smith, services as attorney .

656

added to final roll : Nancy Bigknife, Alice

Owen and children...

340

determination of amounts to attorneys in

claims of intermarried whites ..

340

intermarried whites may sell improve-

ments on lands to citizen allottees.. 1220

payment to, failing to receive full allot-

ment .

137

pending suits of intermarried whites..

138

persons included on roll of freedmen ..

138

suit by William Brown and Levi B. Gritts

for, may be brought in Court of

Claims to determine 'alienation re-

strictions, etc ......

1028

Cherokee, N. C.,

appropriation for Indian school ........ 359, 1041 Cherokee Shoals , S. C. and Ga.,
dam authorized across Savannah River at. 1255

Cherokees , Eastern,

deficiency appropriation for councilors ,

etc ...

1388

Cherry, Mary O. (widow), pension increased ..

2738

Chesapeake and Delaware Canal,

commission to examine and report on feasi-

bility of, as ship canal.

835

appropriation for expenses..

835

Chesapeake Bay,

commission to report on waterway from

Delaware Bay to ......

835

Chesebro, George W. ,

pension increased

1758

3354

INDEX.

Chesnimnus Forest Reserve, Oreg.,
proclamation establishing.. including, in Imnaha Forest Reserve...
Chester River, Md., appropriation for improvement of.................
Chester, S. C.,

Page. 3022 3284
1081

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for ..

793, 1296

Cheyenne and Arapaho Indians, Okla. , appropriation for support, etc. , of ...... 362, 1043
Cheyenne Indians, Arapaho and Northern, appropriation for fulfilling treaties with. 354, 1035
Cheyenne River Agency, S. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 369, 1046

Cheyenne, Wyo.,

appropriation for public building .....

697

Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company,

may reconstruct bridge across Mississippi

River, Clinton, Iowa ..

879

Chicago, Ill.,

appropriation for warehouse, Indian sup-

plies ..

329, 1018

for assistant treasurer's office ..

411, 958

for underground mail transportation . 475, 1214

for enforcing anchorage regulations .. 702, 1309

for preserving Confederate Mound, Oak-

wood Cemetery .

741, 1347

for improvement of harbor.

1102

for public building, post-office and court-

house

1296

deficiency appropriation for post-office and court-house, improvements, etc.... 31

for post-office, etc. , building, advertising . 638

interior decoration authorized....

697

appraiser's salary increased .

763

Chicago, Kansas City and Texas Railway Com-

" pany,

time extended for bridging Missouri River

between Kansas City and Sibley,

Mo. , by .

911

Chicago, Lake Shore and South Bend Railway

Company,

may bridge Calumet River in Lake County ,

Ind ...

877

Chicago, Milwaukee and Saint Paul Railway Company,

allottees on right of way, Standing Rock

Reservation, may sell land to ; con-

ditions ...

1047

granted right of way through Fort Keogh

Military Reservation, Mont ..

187

may bridge Columbia River between

Douglas and Kittitas counties, Wash. 109

between Franklin and Benton coun-

ties, Wash..

108

Missouri River, S. Dak .

95

Broadwater and Franklin counties .

456

Lewis and Clarke County, Mont ..

457

Snake River, Lewiston, Idaho .

98

between Whitman and Columbia coun-

ties, Wash.....

107

Yellowstone River, Mont .

97

Chicago River, Ill.,

appropriation for improvement of...

1102

Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad

Company,

1

not liable for mortgage bonds of Choctaw,

Oklahoma and Gulf Railroad Com-

pany:

.149

Chicago Terminal Transfer Company,

may bridge Grand Calumet River, Ill..

1234

Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park,

appropriation for establishing for bridges.....

744, 1349 744, 1349

Chickasahay River, Miss . , appropriation for improvement of..

Page. 1088

Chickasate Indians (see also Five Civilized

Tribes) , appropriation for tribal schools ............ 340, 1026

for investigating deposits in segregated

coal lands .

346

added to final roll: Rebecca Pitts, Maggie

Wade ...

340

allotments to freedmen considered home-

steads....

138

town lots reserved for operating, etc. , coal

and asphalt leases, to be sold ; pro-

ceeds ....

141

patents to issue for allotments donated by, to Murrow Indian Orphans' Home.. 142

may convey fractional allotment rights to

Murrow Home ....

142

additional lands conveyed to Murrow

Home...

142

freedmen to have preference of unallotted

lands ; limit..

143

nonagricultural, etc. , lands in large tracts

may be sold

143

highways on section lines of lands of..

145

payment to State National Bank, Denison,

Tex., legislative expenses....

345

tribal courts abolished ; causes transferred . 1027

unallotted lands reserved for churches of

freedmen .

338

for cemeteries.

338

Chickasha, Okla. ,

terms of court

275

Chicken Pox, D. C.,

provisions to prevent spread of........

889

Chico, Cal. ,

appropriation for plant introduction garden

at..

683

Chicott Pass, La.. appropriation for lighting....

713, 1320

Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, appropriation for ..

446, 991

made a trustee, Foundation for Promotion

of Industrial Peace......

1242

Chiefof Engineers, Army,

approval of, and Secretary of War, required

for plans , etc. , of dams.....

386

Chief of Staff, Army,

appropriation for expenses, military infor-

mation division...

240, 1158

for service schools ...

240, 1158

details of civilians to or from War Depart-

ment forbidden ..

418

Chihuahua, Mexico; classification and salary of consul ... appropriation for clerk hire ..

100 294, 924

Chilcote, Alfred B.,

pension increased .

1856

Child Labor,

investigation directed of industrial, etc. ,

conditions of......

866

appropriation for .

1330

Child Labor Committee, D. C., National,

incorporated ; objects, etc ...

914

Childers, George W.,

pension increased .

1962

Children, citizenship of, born abroad................................... . 1229

Children, D. C.,

jurisdiction of juvenile court over neg-

lected , etc ...

74

parents and guardians neglecting, etc.... 74

28

punishment for desertion , etc. , by parent

of minor...

86

INDEX .

3355

'hildren's Guardians, D. C. , Board of, appropriation for administrative
penses

Page. CX511 , 1152

for salaries..

511, 1152

for feeble-minded children .

511, 1152

for board, etc. , of children.

511 , 1152

payments to sectarian institutions ;

burials .

511, 1152

for building industrial home school for

colored children.......

511

deficiency appropriation for feeble-minded

children ..

642, 1379

for care of children .

1379

powers of juvenile court in commitments

to....

74

Children's Hospital, D. C..

appropriation for care of indigent pa-

tients

510, 1151

Childress, Rufus G.,

pension increased

1719

Childs, Earl K.,

pension increased.

2292

Childs Glacier, Alaska,
bridge authorized across Copper River at.. 804 Childs, Harold D. ,
may be appointed ensign and retired..... 1417

Chile,

appropriation for minister to .

286, 916

for secretary of legation..

287, 917

proclamation asking aid for sufferers, earth-

quake at Valparaiso, etc.

3227

Chilocco, Okla.,

appropriation for Indian school...

362, 1043

for water system....

1043

deficiency appropriation for Indian school . 655

lease of portion of reservation authorized.. 362

Chilsom, Daniel, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ......

365

China,

appropriation for minister to .

286, 916

for secretary of legation.. for second secretary .

287, 917 287, 917

for Chinese secretary

288, 918

for assistant Chinese secretary.

288, 918

for student-interpreters; tuition ..

288, 918

for expenses, United States court for . 922, 1357

for interpreters at consulates in..

294, 924

for marshals, consular courts

294, 925

for expenses of prisoners ..

295, 925

for marking places where American sol-

diers fell in ...

1175

deficiency appropriation for legation build-

ings, Peking

27

for rent, legation buildings .

48

for United States court for

669

plan for consular buildings in, to be pre-

pared

292

China, United States Court for,

appropriation for salaries...

922

for expenses judge and district attorney.. 922

for deputy marshals and clerks..

922

for expenses ..

1357

deficiency appropriation for salaries , etc.. 669

established ; jurisdiction...

814

regular sessions ; special hearings at consu-

lates..

814

seal, process, etc.

814

jurisdiction of consuls in minor cases ; ap-

peals .

814

appeals from consular courts in Korea ..

814

supervision over estates of deceased citi-

zens ..

815

duties of consuls ..

815

appeals from, to circuit court of appeals ,

ninth district .

815

China, United States Court for- Continued . appeals from , to Supreme Court ; procedure . general jurisdiction ; procedure . officers ; salaries . tenure of office .. bond of marshal and clerk ; deputies marshals of consular courts in China abolished . tariff of fees ....
Chinese Customs Service,

Page . 815 815 810 816816
816 816

appropriation for reimbursing for gas buoy,

Yangtse River..

1293

Chinese Exclusion Act,

appropriation for enforcing...

722, 1329

deficiency appropriation for enforcing.

1403

not affected by alien immigration act ..

911

Chinese Plague,

appropriation for prevention of epidemic .. 709, 1316

Chipman, James F.,

pension increased .

1965

Chinook Indians, Wash. and Oreq., claims of certain bands to be investigated. 369

Chipola River, Fla. , appropriation for improvement of; cut off. 1087
Chippewa Falls, Wis. ,

construction of public building authorized

at .

777

appropriation for.

792, 1296

Chippewa Indian Reservation , Minn.,

return of excess to purchasers of pine tim-

ber...

351

payment to logging superintendents ..

351

Chippewa Indians, Mich. , L'Anse and Vieux de Sert,

shares of minors and incompetents in trust

funds may be paid to guardians.... 356

Chippewa Indians, N. Dak. , Turtle Mountain

Band,

appropriation for support , etc., of ................ 360

Chippewa Indians of Lake Superior,

appropriation for support, etc., of..

380, 1051

allotments to Indians of La Pointe Reser-

vation..

1217 .

Chippewa Indians of Minnesota,

appropriation for advance interest .

350, 1033

entry of drainage lands authorized ... 1033

for civilization , etc ...

350, 1033

for completing drainage survey; sale ,

etc

352, 1033

disposition of lands.

352

deficiency appropriation for surveying and

allotting..

655

grant of Cooper Island to Minnesota for

public park....

352

sale of fallen timber and hay, Chippewa

Reservation; proceeds.......

351

Chippewa Indians of the Mississippi,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with;

schools ...

350, 1033

Chippewa Indians, Turtle Mountain Band,

appropriation for support, etc., of

1042

Chippewa Indians, White Earth Band,

appropriation for expenses of annual cele-

bration ...

1034

Chiricahua Forest Reserve, Ariz.,

proclamation adding lands to ..

3244

Chloral Hydrate, D. C.,

restriction on sale, etc. , of....

179

Chocolate Bayou , Tex. ,

appropriation for improvement of.

1091

Choctaw Indians (see also Five Civilized

Tribes),

appropriation for tribal schools ,

340, 1026

for fulfilling treaties with .

341 , 1027

3356

INDEX.

Choctaw Indians-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for investigating deposits in

segregated coal lands ..

346

added to final roll : Malinda Pickens, Morris

Battiest, and Samuel Sidney Burris. 340

allotments to freedmen, considered home-

steads ....

138

segregation of certain lands for sale , etc.

139

town lots reserved for operating, etc. , coal

and asphalt leases, to be sold ; pro-

ceeds ....

141

patents to issue for allotments donated by,

to Murrow Indian Orphans' Home.. 142

may convey fractional allotment rights to

Murrow Home ....

142

additional lands conveyed to Murrow

Home...

142

freedmen to have preference of unallotted

lands; limit .

143

nonagricultural, etc. , lands in large tracts

may be sold....

143

highways on section lines of lands of.

145

claim of S. W. Peel for legal services to,

referred to Court of Claims ..

2415

of Peter P. Pitchlynn's heirs referred to

Court of Claims ....

345

coal lands, additional reservation ; pay-

ment by lessors ...

338

land set aside for Old Goodland Indian

Orphan Industrial School ...

341

Mississippi Choctaws, removing prior to

1906, to be enrolled with...

341

treaty funds placed to credit of tribe..

1027

tribal courts abolished ; causes transferred . 1027

unallotted lands reserved for churches of

freedmen..

338

for cemeteries ..

338

Choctaw, Oklahoma and Gulf Railroad Com-

pany, mortgage bonds excepted from transfer.... 149

payment from funds of Otoe and Missouria

Indians to .

366

Choctawhatchee Power Company,

may dam Choctawhatchee River, Dale

County, Ala..

102

Choctawhatchee River, Ala. , dam authorized across. in Dale County .... 102

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1111

Choctawhatchee River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of ..

1087

Cholera,

appropriation for prevention of epidemic .. 709, 1316

Choptank River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of.

1081

Chouteau County, Mont.,

lease of lands to, for dry-land farming ex-

periments...

552

Chrisler, Nicholas,

pension increased .

1678

Christian, Paul J.,

pension increased .

2456

Christiania, Norway, classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire......

924

Christie, James J.,

pension..

2198

Christie, Susan F. (widow),

pension increased .

2382

Christjohn, Esther, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to....

381

Christjohn, William , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

381

Christman, John H. ,

pension increased'.

2404

Christoff, John, pension increased .

Page. 1456

Christopherson, Christopher, pension increased ..

2284

Christy, William D., pension increased .
Chubb, Henry, pension increased

2066 2070

Chungking, China ,

classification and salary of consul ..

99

Church, Byard H., pension increased .

1706

Church, Charles, pension increased .

2670

Church, Hannah C. (widow), pension increased .

2135

Church, Kate S. (widow), pension increased .

2488

Church ofthe Covenant, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

869

Churchill, William H.,

pension increased .

2798

Cienfuegos, Cuba,

classification and salary of consul ..

99

appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

Cincinnati, Ohio,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's office . 412 , 958

for pneumatic-tube, etc. , mail service . Cipher Code, Department of State,
appropriation for.... Circuit Courts,
appropriation for circuit judges... for clerks, circuit courts of appeal..

472 , 1211 926
446, 992 446, 992

concurrent jurisdiction in cases under im-

migration act..

907

jurisdiction in naturalization of aliens..

596

to issue injunctions to enforce compliance

with Interstate Commerce Commis-

sion orders..

592

writs of mandamus to compel compli-

ance with interstate commerce regu-

lations ....

594

Circuit Courts of Appeals,

appropriation for clerks ..

446, 992

for messenger, etc. , eighth circuit . for law books ..

447, 992 447,993

appeals allowed in any interlocutory order

of injunction

116

to be taken in thirty days; effect ..

116

appeals, etc., from United States court for

China, to ninth circuit..

815

Circuit Judges,

appropriation for ..

446, 992

Citizen Pottawatomie Indians,

fee-simple patents to certain allottees .... 365

Citizenship (see also Immigration Act) , passports may be issued to residents three

years after making declaration of

intention..

1228

valid for six months ..

1228

not good in country of former citizenship. 1228

expatriation of citizens by foreign natural-

ization ....

1228

of naturalized citizens by continued resi-

dence abroad ; exception .

1228

not allowed in time of war .

1228

American women married to foreigners .... 1228

resumption of citizenship on termination

of marital relation ; abroad ..

1228

in the United States...

1229

foreign women married to Americans .

1229

renunciation on termination of marital

relation .....

1229

retention , if abroad ..

1229

INDEX.

3357

Citizenship-Continued .

Page. 1 Claims-Continued .

Page.

children born abroad of alien parents after-

wards naturalized ..

1229

deficiency appropriation for judgments,

Indian depredation

44, 48, 664, 1400

during minority....

1229

to begin with permanent residence ..

1229

for paying, certified by accounting offi-

cers ..

45, 665, 1400, 1404

children of citizens born abroad ..

1229

for paying awards, Spanish Treaty Com-

must record intention at age of 18, if

mission.

45, 665, 1400

abroad ; oath required .

1229

for paying Texas, frontier defense, 1855-

records, etc. , to be filed in Department of

1860 ...

645

State

1229

for Confederate soldiers'

1381

Citizenship, American,

clerks in consulates to be of..

101

provisions for admission of aliens , etc., to.. 596

City Delivery, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, assistant,

etc ....

437, 983

for letter carriers .

.471 , 1210

for substitute, auxiliary, and temporary

carriers

1210

for new offices..

471, 1210

for horse hire and vehicles ..

471 , 1210

international treaty for submitting pecuni-

ary, to arbitration .

2845

Minnesota, for suppressing Indian hostil-

ities, to be reopened ..

637

readjustment of Rhode Island , expenses,

war with Spain.

214

Claims Commission , Spanish Treaty,

appropriation for defense in suits before. 752, 1359

for expenses taking testimony abroad . 752, 1359
deficiency appropriation for paying awards 45 , 665, 1400

for car fare and bicycle allowance . 471 , 1210 Clapp , Charles H. ,

for mechanics ..

471 , 1210 pension increased

2695

for marine service, Detroit, Mich . 472 , 1210 Clapp , Sarah A. ,

for incidental expenses.

472, 1210 payment to .

2410

for special delivery ..

472, 1211 Clapper, Henry,

for supplies..

476, 1215 pension increased

2582

deficiency appropriation for..

658 Clapper, Richard E. ,

grading and promotion of carriers .

1206 pension increased

2379

efficiency records for promotions and reduc-

tions.

1206

eligibility for higher positions ..

1206

transfer as clerks; limit ....

1206

Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire ..

100 294, 924

Ciudad Porfirio Diaz, Mexico, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire....

100 294, 924

Clardy, Albert M. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to......
Clarinda, Iowa,
construction of public building authorized at; nominal site ..
appropriation for . for purchase of site .
allowance for site of public building . Clark, Aaron K.,
pension increased

365
778 792 1296 1236
2054

Civil Engineers, Navy,

Clark, Adolphus P.,

allowances for, and assistants.

555 pension increased

2716

Civil Pension Roll,

Clark, Albert Richard,

establishment of, in postal service , forbid-

pension increased

1605

den ...

478, 1217 Clark, Alice G. (widow),

Civil Service Commission,

pension increased .

2273

appropriation for Commissioners, secretary,

Clark, Burr,

clerks, etc.

401 , 947 pension increased

2597

for field force, examiners , clerks, etc .. 401 , 948 Clark, Erastus C.,

for rural carrier examining board .. 401, 948 pension increased

2146

details from Executive Departments

Clark, Franklin D.,

prohibited .....

401 , 948 pension increased

1868

transfers of employees .

401, 948 Clark, Frederick W.,

for traveling, etc., expenses .

401 , 948 pension increased

2075

for contingent expenses.

434, 979 Clark, Gilbert W.,

for rent..

434, 979 pension increased

2610

for printing and binding..

760, 1367 Clark, Hiram C.,

deficiency appropriation for traveling, etc. ,

pension increased .

2116

expenses..

1371 Clark, Isaac G.,

Claiborne, Md.,

pension increased .

2257

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1081 Clark, Jerome B.

Claiborne, Thomas,

pension increased .

2644

pension increased .

1824 Clark, Job,

Claims,

pension increased .

2613

appropriation for defending suits in .... 751 , 1358 Clark, John, Illinois Volunteers,

for defense in Indian depredation ... 752, 1358 pension increased ..

2541

for settling, for damages, United States,

Clark, John, U. S. Infantry,

Cuba, etc., to private property .

1165 pension increased .

1744

for paying certain , under Navy Depart-

Clark, John J.,

ment .

1290 pension increased .

2544

deficiency appropriation for New York and

Clark, John L.,

Pennsylvania, war of 1812 .

29 pension increased .

1650

for defending suits in claims.. 40, 656, 1389 Clark, Joseph H.,

for defense , Indian depredation ..

40 pension increased .

2588

for paying judgments, Court of Claims.

44 , Clark, Joshua J..

664, 1399 pension increased .

2132

3358

INDEX.

Clark, Laura (urdow), pension increased .
Clark, Louisa A. (undow), pension increased .
Clark, Martin, pension increased .
Clark, Mary (widow), pension increased
Clark, Mary A. (widow),
pension.. Clark, Silas G.,
pension increased . Clark, Thomas,
pension increased . Clark, Wilbur II.,
pension increased . Clark, William J. ,
pension increased .

Page . 1505 2140 1943 1957 2476 2429 1616 2260 2607

Clark, William O.,

pension...

1953

Clarke, George W.,

appropriation for injuries to batteau ...... 1293

Clarke, William A. ,

pension increased

2758

Clarkes Creek, S. C. ,

appropriation for improvement of......

1084

Clarksburg, W. Va. ,

terms of court at .

891

Clarksville, Tenn.,

bridge authorized across Cumberland River

at .

134

Classification Division, Post-Office ment,
appropriation for superintendent, agents, etc...
for per diem, special agents .. Claunch, Elias,
pension increased .

Depart-
special 438, 983 438, 984
1728

Clay, Cornelia W. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2697

Clay County, Ark., may bridge Black River at Bennetts Ferry. 892

Clay, James W. ,

lands granted to heirs of..

2823

Clayton, Holmes,

pension increased .

2281

Clearwater, Fla.,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made..

1112

Clearwater, Minn.,

dam authorized across Mississippi River at . 266

time extended for dam, etc. , of Mississippi

River at..

1235

Cleary, Francis J.,

may be appointed ensign in the Navy .... 633

to be additional number ..

633

Cleaveland, Esther A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2316

Cleavenger, Minor,

pension increased

2542

Cleaver, Elizabeth (widow),

pension..

2338

Clegg, Doris F. (widow),

pension increased

1818

Clendenin, Frank,

pension increased

1894

Clendening, William F.,

pension increased .

2663

Clerk Hire, Members and Delegates, appropriation for...

396, 942

Clerk of the House of Representatives, appropriation for, clerks, etc. for digest of private claims .

393, 938 393

restriction of orders by, for reprinting bills,

resolutions, etc.

1012

Clerks and Messengers to Committees,

Page.

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives..

393, 939

for Senate .

390, 935

Clerks at Consulates, appropriation for; maximum allowance

increased .

294, 923

limitation..

923

receiving $ 1,000 a year or more to be Ameri-

can citizens...

101

Clerks at Embassies and Legations,

appropriation for; new appointees to be

citizens ...

288, 918

Clerks, Messengers, etc., Army,
appropriation for, at headquarters ..... 243, 1161 details to War Department forbidden ... 243, 1161 Clerks to Committees,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives, annual .

393, 939

session..

394, 940

for Senate.

390, 935

Clerks to Senators,

appropriation for.. deficiency appropriation for..

391, 937 43

Clerks, United States Courts, appropriation for fees..

754, 1361

deficiency appropriation for fees

48,

657, 667, 1391, 1403, 1405

appointment for United States court for

China ; salary; tenure ..

816

to make returns of all moneys received .

754

Cleveland, John A.,

may be appointed second lieutenant , Army,

notwithstanding age..

1225

Cleveland, Ohio,

appropriation for public building.. rent ..

697, 1296 698, 1296

for improvement of harbor; restriction ;

contracts for marine hospital .

737, 1094, 1344 1307

Cleveland, Tenn.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for....

795

Clevenger, Galon S.,

pension.

1667

Cliborne, John F. G.,

pension increased .

2567

Clifton Forge, Va.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for.

794, 1296

Clifton, John L.,

pension increased .

2181

Clifton Street, D. C.,

name of Douglas changed to..

385

Clinch River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of.

1094

Clinch River, Va. , bridges authorized across, and branches ... 191

Cline, Jacob,

pension increased .

2084

Cline, Peter,

pension increased .

1629

Cline, Philipp, alias Francis Klein,

pension increased .

1600

Clinkscales, William F.,

pension increased .

2379

Clinton, Christopher,

pension increased .

1436

Clinton County, Iowa,

transferred from northern to southern

judicial district !..

304

INDEX.

3359

Clinton, Iowa,

Page.

reconstruction of bridge authorized across

Mississippi River at

879

Clinton, Mo.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for....

795

Clinton River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1098

Clobridge, Selden C.,

pension increased .

1675

Cloe, Emile,

pension increased

2332

Clother, Asa J.,

pension increased

2595

Clothing, Army, appropriation for.

254, 1171

for indemnity for, destroyed for sanitary

reasons ..

254, 1171

for undrawn, enlisted men

245, 1163

balances on discharge payable from

regular pay fund..

246

deficiency appropriation for. 46, 646, 666, 1401

Clothing, Marine Corps, appropriation for ..

580, 1202

Cloud, Abby B. (widou),

pension increased

2062

Cloud Chief, Okla. ,

Washita county seat changed from , to New

Cordell..

50

Clough, William,

pension increased

1712

Cloutier, Ada, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

374

Club and Plantations Creeks Canal, Ga. ,

appropriation for constructing ..

1085

Cluck, Albert G.,

pension increased

1684

Cluley, John F.,

pension increased

1614

" Clytie ", Yacht,

appropriation for paying damages to owner. 1291

Coad, James C.,

pension increased .

2225

Coahoma County, Miss.,

may bridge Coldwater River to Quitman

County.....

631

Coal,

investigation ordered of ownership, etc.,

in, or properties, by railroads and

officials .

823

combinations , etc. , to monopolize trade

in...

823

car-supply system .

823

Coal, Army, sale to citizens of Nome , Alaska , permitted. 59
Coal Claims, Philippines,

appropriation for purchase of, in island of

Batan..

23

Coal, D. C., penalty for delivering without certificate of weight, etc .....
Coal Lands, locations of, on unallotted lands of Blackfeet Indian Reservation , Mont..............
Coal Lands, Indian Territory, reserved from sale until expiration of leases, etc..
Coal Lands, Osage Indian Reservation, Okla. , provisions for leasing , royalties, etc........
Coal Monopolies, appropriation for examinations, etc. deficiency appropriation for examinations into ..

94
1038
142 543 705 119

Coal, Navy,

Page.

appropriation for, and transportation ... 560, 1182

deficiency appropriation for, and trans-

portation..

35, 666, 1385

"Coalinga," Bark,

change of name authorized ..

626

Coals, Lignites, etc. ,

appropriation for testing, etc.; collection

of materials for examination, etc. 728, 1335

Coast and Geodetic Survey,

appropriation for ; advances..

713, 1321

for field expenses, Atlantic and Gulf

coasts, etc..

714, 1321

for Pacific Ocean surveys

714, 1322

transportation to Manila, etc. , Filipino

employees...

714, 1322

for hydrographic researches, etc .. 714, 1322

for Coast Pilot , etc ..

714, 1322

for magnetic observations, etc ..

714, 1322

points to State surveys..

714, 1322

for special surveys ..

714, 1322

for miscellaneous ; Maryland oyster beds. 714,

1322

for delegate, International Geodetic As-

sociation

715, 1322

assignment of pay by employees

1322

for vessels, repairs, etc.......

715, 1322

for vessels, officers, and men ..

715, 1322

for superintendent, assistants, etc ... 715, 1323

for office force.......

715, 1323

for office expenses.

716, 1324

for printing and binding

760, 1368

deficency appropriation for repairs to ves-

sels ..

42

for office expenses..

1393

for Aug. F. Rodgers ..

1393

to cooperate in survey, etc. , of Maryland

oyster beds .

202

Coast Artillery, Army,

duties described ..

861

to constitute a corps..

861

number of officers ; band .

861

composition of companies; limit .

862

assigninent of officers ; promotions ..

863

filling vacancies...

863

pay and allowances of enlisted men.

863

extra to casemate electricians, etc.;

limit ..

863

Coast Artillery, Army, Chief of

designation of Chief of Artillery changed

to, July 1 , 1908 ..

861

to be additional member of General Staff ;

service ..

861

vacancies ; retired rank, etc ..

861

Coast Pilot,

appropriation for compiling..

714, 1322

Coasters Harbor Island, R. I.,

appropriation for naval training station . 556, 1178

for Naval War College..

556, 1179

for public works, training station Naval War College ..

567, 1189 567

for service of architect, barracks

1292

deficiency appropriation for buildings,

Naval War College .

650

for replacing buildings destroyed by fire . 650

for War College .

1385

Coasting Districts , Great,

established ; first, Atlantic coast .

190

second, Porto Rico ...

190

third , Pacific coast

190

fourth , Alaska..

190

fifth , Hawaii ..

190

Coasting Trade,

restrictions not applicable to Philippines

until April 11, 1909 ..

154

3360

INDEX.

Coates, John W., pension increased

Page. 2196

Coaticook, Quebec,

classification and salary of consul..

100

Coats, R. Smith,

pension increased

2430

Cobb, Cate E. (widow),

pension increased

1726

Cobb, Cyrus W.,

pension increased

2280

Cobb, Felix G. ,

pension increased

2548

Cobb, Harlan P.,

pension increased

1947

Coburg, Germany, classification and salary of consul -general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire....

294, 924

Coburn, Mary ( widow),

pension increased :

1691

Cocaine, D. C. ,

restriction on sale, etc. , of..

179

Cochetopah Forest Reserve, Colo. , proclamation establishing
Cochran, John S., pension increased

3101 2492

Cochran, Mary (widow),

pension..

1994

Cochran, William H.,

pension increased

2736

Cochrane, Irene A. (widow),

pension increased .

1486

Cody, Gabriel,

pension increased .

1932

Coeur d'Alene Forest Reserve, Idaho,

proclamation establishing .

3256

Coeur d'Alene, Idaho ,

part of Fort Sherman , abandoned military reservation granted for cemetery to ... 3004

Coeur d'Alene Indian Reservation,

appropriation for Indian agent, etc., at ... 334

for superintendent...

1023

disposal of unallotted lands in.

335

allotments to Indians..

335

classification of residue ; open to home-

stead entry....

336

appraisal; payments ; commutation .

336

mineral entries ; coal and oil deposits .. 336

saleof remaininglands ; school sections . 336

proclamation of opening; regulations.... 337

reservations for public uses; town sites . 337

disposal of proceeds ; distribution.

337

agency, etc., lands .

337

rules, etc.; responsibility of United

States.

337

appropriation for expenses ; reimbursable ;

use of proceeds .

338

owners of land adjoining may purchase

from, to complete holdings ..

1229

Coeur d'Alene Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 335, 1024

Coffey, James I., Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

351

Coffey, John L.,

pension increased .

1974

Coffin, Griffin A. ,

pension increased ..

2754

Coffin, Henry C.,

pension increased .

1912

Coffman, Daniel M.,

pension increased

1744

Coffman, Victor H.,

pension increased.

2455

Cohansey River, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1080

Cohen, Stephen D. , pension increased .

Page. 1607

Coin,

appropriation for freight on bullion and.. 409, 955

for transporting silver...

706

for transporting fractional silver.

1312

for transporting silver..

1313

for transporting minor..

706, 1312

for recoining gold ....

706, 1313

deficiency appropriation for recoining gold . 28

for transporting silver...

28, 119, 636, 1373

for freight on bullion and .

31, 1376

for transporting minor...

636, 1374

permanent appropriation for metal for

minor, increased ....

132

Coker, John, pension increased
Colby, Abram P., pension increased .
Colby, William M. , pension increased ..

2143 2279 2538

Cold Spring Inlet, N. J.,
appropriation for improvement of; contribution of local authorities, etc.; re-
striction ..

1079

Cold Springs, Ga. , appropriation for fish hatchery ...

?... 721

Colding, James L., pension increased

2556

Coldwater, Mich. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for.

793, 1297

Coldwater River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of ......... 1088

bridge authorized across, between Coa-

homa and Quitman counties ..

631

Cole, Burgess, pension increased
Cole, Charles L., pension increased .
Cole, Clarke S., pension increased.
Cole, George W., pension increased .

1690 2610 2489 2686

Cole, James H. , alias John V. , pension....
Cole, Lucy (widow) , pension increased .
Cole, Norman H., pension increased .
Cole, Peter, pension increased .
Cole, Robert, pension increased .
Cole, Seymour, pension increased .
Cole, Theodore, pension increased .
Colegate, William H. , pension increased .
Coleman, Clara P. (widow), pension increased .
Coleman, David B. , pension increased

1516 2508 2326 1908 2561 1687 2175 2107 2709 2069

Coleman, John, jr.,

pension increased .

1684

Collection Districts, Customs (see Customs) .

Collection of Customs Duties,

permits to load or unload at night , vessels

from foreign ports..

633

extended to bonded carriers from United

States ports.....

633

INDEX.

3361

Collectors of Customs,

Page.

deputy, to be appointed by Secretary ofthe

Treasury; duties, etc ..

880

Collector's Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries..

484, 1121

Coller, Hester A. (widow),

pension...

2683

Collett, Dier,

pension increased .

2235

Collier, George W.,

pension increased .

1626

Colliers, Naval (see also Naval Auxiliaries) ,

appropriation for maintenance

556

deficiency appropriation for maintenance

of..

46,647, 666, 1385

limit of cost increased, of, now building ... 583

Collingwood, Ontario, classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Collins, Ada (daughter),

pension..

2066

Collins, Charles,

pension..

2177

Collins, Henry E.,

pension increased .

2471

Collins, Isaiah,

pension increased .

1688

Collins, James,

pension increased .

2640

Collins, Kemenskio A. N. L. , alias Lewis,

pension increased .

1489

Collins, Martha J. (widow),

pension increased .

2450

Collins, Milton S.,

pension increased .

2293

Collins, Lieut. R. W.,

deficiency appropriation for refund ....... 1380

Collisions at Sea,

lights, etc., on fishing vessels and boats to

prevent...

850

former laws repealed ..

852

Collum, Georgetta K. (widow),

pension..

2479

Cologne, Germany,

classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire.......

99 294, 924

Colombia, appropriation for minister to
for secretary of legation ..

286, 916 287, 917

Colombo, Ceylon,

classification and salary of consul ...........

99

Colon, Panama, classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire .

99 294, 924

Colonels, Army, Retired,

on active duty to receive same pay, etc. , as

a retired major.......

245

Colorado,

appropriation for Indian service in .... 334, 1023 for incidentals, Indian service in. 334, 1023

for surveyor-general, clerks , etc

434, 980

Battlement Mesa Forest Reserve, area

modified ..

3076

Cochetopah Forest Reserve, established .. 3101 consolidation of Pikes Peak and Plum

Creek timber land reserves, and

South Platte Forest Reserve into

Pikes Peak Forest Reserve ..........

3029

Durango, granted lands for water supply;

price, etc..

1053

entry of certain lands by Mancos, au-

thorized ....

459

forest reserves not to be created or added to

in, except by act of Congress ..

1271

Fruita Forest Reserve, established .

3191

Colorado- Continued . grant of public lands to Boulder, for water supply... Gunnison Forest Reserve, established . Holy Cross Forest Reserve, established ..
enlarged La Sal Forest Reserve, Utah and, estab-
lished
Las Animas Forest Reserve, established... Leadville Forest Reserve, established .. lease of lands of Southern Utes in La Plata

Page.
1223 3025 3144 3286
3190 3289 3013

County, to P. F. U. Rubber Com-.

pany.

88

may purchase desert lands in former South-

ern Ute Reservation...

1056

Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, Wyo. and,

enlarged

3039, 3303

Mesa Verde National Park, created ..

616

Montezuma Forest Reserve , established 3106

enlarged

3307

Ouray Forest Reserve , established ..

3271

Park Range Forest Reserve, established.. 3079

area modified

3285

resurvey of certain townships, Baca

County, authorized .

459

of township in Fremont County .

868

right of way granted over public lands in,

for irrigation and electric-power

plants ...

1227

San Isabel Forest Reserve, area extended . 3083

San Juan Forest Reserve, established ..... 3070

enlarged

3308

Uncompahgre Forest Reserve, established . 3109

enlarged

3282

Wet Mountains Forest Reserve, established . 3096

Colorado River, Tex.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1117

Colorado Springs, Colo. ,

appropriation for public building...... 698, 1297

limit of cost increased , public building ... 773

Colorado State Agricultural College,

lands granted for forestry purposes to ..

1246

reversion for nonuser..

1246

Colored Agricultural Normal University,

Okla. ,

lands reserved for; disposition ..

273

indemnity grant of lands to...

275

Colored Industrial Home School, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries and expenses .. 1152

Colored Women and Children , D. C., National

Association for Relief of, appropriation for care of children by;
tract..
Colson, William O.. pension increased .
Colton , Francis, pension increased .

con512, 1153
1548
1941

Columbia and Colville Indian Reservations, Wash. ,
trust patents to allottees under Moses agreement....

1818181818

conveyance in fee after ten years ..

sale permitted allottees, except 80 acres. 55

by heirs of allottees ...

55

taxation on lands sold .

56

Columbia County, Wash. ,

bridge authorized across Snake River be-

tween Whitman County and ...

107

Columbia Deaf and Dumb Institution, D. C.,

appropriation for current expenses ... 731 , 1338

for repairs , etc ...

731, 1338

for instruction

503, 1142

deficiency appropriation for current ex-

penses...

37

3362

INDEX.

Columbia Heights, D. C.,

Page.

appropriation for site for future normal,

etc. , schools ..

502

Columbia Hospital for Women, D. C.,

appropriation for care of indigent pa-

tients..

510, 1151

for repairs..

510

Columbia Indian Reservation, Wash.,

entries, etc., of lands on former, made be-

fore withdrawal for irrigation proj-

ects, confirmed .............

934

Columbia, Miss., bridge authorized across Pearl River at... 933

Columbia, Mo.,

limit of cost increased , public building ... 773

appropriation for....

789

Columbia River, Oreg., appropriation for lighting..

713, 1320

Columbia River, Wash. and Oreg..

appropriation for improving mouth of......

131 ,

738, 1107

between Vancouver and mouth of Wil-

lamette ...

738

at Three-Mile Rapids .

738

below Portland...

738

for improvement of lower.

1107

between Dalles Rapids and Celilo

Falls ; contracts ...

1107

and tributaries to mouth of Snake

River.....

1107

for improvement of upper.

1107

between Wenatchee and Bridgeport,

Wash ......

1109

bridge authorized across, between Benton

and Franklin counties, Wash

108, 866

Benton and Walla Walla counties.

866

Douglas and Kittitas counties...

109

Vancouver, Wash..

2

Wenatchee, Wash..

6

light-vessel authorized , off mouth of.

324

appropriation for..

711, 1318

Columbia Road, D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for widening,

east of Sixteenth street .

844

appropriation for...

845

deficiency appropriation for extending .... 641

Columbia, S. C.,

terms of court at ; fall term for civil cases

only..

1002

Columbia, Tenn.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .......

781

appropriation for....

794, 1297

Columbia Valley Railroad Company,

granted right of way through Fort Colum-

bia Reservation , Wash.

926

quarantine station , Wash..

926

Columbian University, D. C. ,

taxes refunded ..

869

Columbus Barracks, Ohio,

appropriation for post hospital .

255

Columbus, Christopher, memorial to be erected in District of Co-

lumbia, to...

1413

commission created to select site, design,

etc.

1413

appropriation for expenses ..

1413

Columbus, Ga., bridge authorized across Chattahoochee

River between Franklin and ................... 324

two bridges authorized across Chattahoo-

chee River between Eufaula and ... 325

Columbus, Ind.,

Page.

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

782

appropriation for.

794

Columbus Memorial Library,

appropriation for site and contribution to

building for...

758

Columbus, Miss.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for .. Columbus, Nebr.,

793, 1297

acquiring site for public building at, thorized ...
appropriation for . Columbus, Ohio,
enlargement of public building at, thorized ...
appropriation for. rent ..

au783 795
au774
790, 1297 1297

Colville Agency, Wash., appropriation for Indian agent at . for support, etc. , of Indians at..
Colville Forest Reserve, Wash.,
proclamation establishing Colville Indian Reservation , Wash.,

377, 1050 377, 1050
3288

appropriation for part payment for lands

ceded on..

1050

for ceded portion of

377

claims of attorneys referred to Court of

Claims ....

378

survey and allotments to Indians of..

80

disposal of unallotted lands ......

80

proclamation opening, to settlement .

81

sale of timber lands ..

81

disposal of proceeds ; per capita..

81

reservations for agency, schools, etc

appropriation for expenses ; reimbursable.. 82

town-site provisions ; proceeds ....

82

withdrawal for irrigation projects ..

82

change in enrollment of bill authorized ... 2829

Colvin, William,

pension increased .

2247

Comanche, etc. , Indian Reservations , Okla..

pasture and wood reserves in , opened to

homestead entry.

3233

Comanche, etc. , Indians, Okla., appropriation for support, etc. , of ..... 361 , 1043 town sites set aside on the common lands of. 80

Combs, Henry D.,

pension increased .

2656

Combs, William W.,

pension increased

2084

Comer, Michael,

pension increased ..

1619

Commerce (see Interstate Commerce Com-

mission).

Commerce and Navigation, provisions for trade with Philippines................. 154

Commerce, Internal and Foreign,

appropriation for experts. etc. , collecting

facts relative to ..

989

Commerce, Interstate (see Interstate Com- ·

merce ).

Commercial Agents,

office of, abolished..

100

Commercial Arrangements, Reciprocal,

proclamation announcing, with Bulgaria 3231

with Germany .

3192

with Portugal..

3268

with Spain..

3227

with Switzerland ..

3185

Commissary-General's Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc.

419, 965

deficiency appropriation for salaries

665

INDEX .

3363

Commissary-Sergeants, Army Post, appropriation for pay..

Page . 242, 1160

Commission (Canadian) , Joint High, appropriation for preparing reports, etc ... 292
Commission, International Prison,

appropriation for annual subscription ... 291 , 921

Commission, Mexican Water Boundary,

appropriation for continuing work of.... 291 , 920

Commission on Columbus Memorial, D. C.,

composition of, duties, etc ...

1413

appropriation for expenses..

1413

Commission on Postal Service, Joint Con-

gressional,

appointment; duties, etc ..

1216

Commission on Revision ofthe Laus,

to make final report by December 15 , 1906 . 574

review of work by joint Congressional com-

mittee...

1423

Commission on Surplus Waters of Mississippi

River, Minn., composition; subjects to be considered .... 456

Commission, Postal,

authorized to investigate, etc. , second-

class mail matter..

477

appropriation for.......

477

existence continued ..

1420

Commission, Saint John River, Joint,

appropriation for expenses of...

292

Commission to Peace Conference at The Hague,

deficiency appropriation for pay and ex-

penses ..

118

Commissioner-General of Immigration, to administer all immigration laws, etc .... 905

Commissioners, United States Courts, appropriation for fees........

755, 1361

deficiency appropriation for fees..

48,

667, 669, 1403 , 1405

to have a seal ; use, etc ...

546

Committee on Arid Lands, House of Repre-

sentatives,

deficiency appropriation for clerk..

662

Committee on Department Methods, deficiency appropriation for salaries ...... 663

Committee on Immigration and Naturalization,

House of Representatives, ·

deficiency appropriation for clerk ......

662

Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,

House of Representatives,

deficiency appropriation for additional

clerk ..

662

Committee on Patents, House of Representa-

tives,

deficiency appropriation for clerk

662

Committee on Printing (see Joint Committee

on Printing) . Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds,
House of Representatives, chairman to serve on commission on New

York postal situation ....

786

Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds,

Senate,

chairman to serve on commission on New

York postal situation ...

786

Committee on Revision, etc. , ofthe Laws, Joint

Special,

appointment; duties, powers, etc ..

1423

payment of expenses..

1423

Committee on the Library, House ofRepresent-

atives,

chairman to serve on Barry Monument

Commission

224

commission to select site for Longfellow

statue..

830

John Paul Jones Monument Commission . 224 Stephenson Memorial Commission .... 1424

Committee onthe Library, Senate,

Page.

chairman to serve on Barry Monument

Commission

224

commission to select site for Longfellow

statue

830

John Paul Jones Monument Commission . 224

Stephenson Memorial Commission ..

1424

Committee on Ventilation and Acoustics,

Senate,

deficiency appropriation for pay of clerk .. 1395

Committees of Congress,

limit on printing for use of....

1012

Committees on Appropriations, Senate and

House of Representatives,

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation to clerks ....

1396

Common Carriers ( see also Railroads, and Interstate Commerce Regulations) ,

appropriation for regulating commerce by,

etc ..

1311

provisions limiting hours of labor by rail-

road train, etc., employees .

1415

subject to interstate-commerce rules, etc. ,

pipe lines for oil, etc...

584

railroads, and rail and water lines carry-

ing goods, etc. , between States and

Territories ..

584

within a Territory.

584

to adjacent foreign country .

584

through a foreign country .

584

for export...

584

from foreign countries ..

584

wholly within a State excepted .

584

express and sleeping car companies in-

cluded as..

584

switch connections, etc. , to be furnished for

private sidings ..

585

liability for injuries to employees ..

232

of bonded merchandise from United States

ports may be permitted to load or

unload at night..

633

Commutation of Quarters, Army,

determination of duty without troops ..... 246

Commutation ofRations,

appropriation for, Army..

249, 1165

special allowance, Fort Bayard , N.

Mex .....

250, 1166

for volunteers, etc ..

750, 1356

Compañia de las Ferrocarriles de Puerto Rico,

payment to.

1817

Compensation in Lieu of Moieties, appropriation for..

708, 1315

Compilations of Laws,

appropriation for preparing, for Congress,

etc.

753,946

Compton, Cynthia A. (widow), pension...

3 2185

Compton Creek, N: J., appropriation for improvement of......................... 1079

Compton, Emily (widow),

pension...

2011

Comptroller ofthe Currency,

appropriation for, deputy , clerks , etc ... 407, 954

for expenses, superintendent , etc ..... 407 , 954

for special examinations, etc ..

408, 954

deficiency appropriation for special exami-

nations ..

1373

number of copies increased of annual re-

port .

1425

reports to, required from all savings , trust,

and banking associations, District

of Columbia...

458

Comptroller of the Treasury, appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc .. 405 959

3364

INDEX .

Compulsory Education, D. C. (see Education Page. Congress Continued .

Page.

of Children, D. C. , Compulsory) .
Comstock, Franklin, pension increased

deficiency appropriation for extra month's

pay to employees .

660, 1394

2630

for Robert Brent Mosher ..

660

Conant, A. Judson, pension increased .
Conant, Etta D. (widow), pension increased ..

adjournment of, ordered for June 30, 1906. 2835

2789 holiday recess ordered for 1905..

2829

for 1906 ..

2837

1700 may fix diversion of waters of Great Lakes

Conant, Henry A., pension increased .
Concessions, Railway, etc., penalty for giving or receiving ..

or Niagara River...

626

2223 Congress of Hygiene and Demography, Interna-

tional,

587 invited to meet in Washington...

1422

Concord, N. C.,

Congressional Cemetery, D. C.,

acquiring site for public building at , authorized ...
appropriation for.

certain restrictions on property repealed .. 1236

783 Congressional Directory,

795 appropriation for compiling..

392, 938

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS (see PART 2) .

Congressional Elections,

Condemnation of Insanitary Buildings, D. C., board for, created ; composition ; powers, etc ...
meetings; inspection of premises . orders of condemnation ; vacation of build-
ings, etc .. repairs; demolition, etc.

money contributions by corporations for,

prohibited...

864

157

penalty ..

865

157 Congressional Employees,

to receive December, 1905 , salaries Decem-

157

ber 20.

821

158

December, 1906 , salaries December 20 .. 1418

premises in litigation, etc.

158 Congressional Library (see Library of Con-

(

service of notice...

159

gress ) .

interference with inspection , removing or-

Congressional Record,

(

ders, etc. , forbidden ..

159 appropriation for reporting proceedings,

punishment for violations..

160

House of Representatives ..

396, 942

legal proceedings for vacating orders , etc .. 160

Senate...

392, 938

award of damages; evidence admitted .. 160

for clerk in.charge, at the Capitol ..

943

payment of expenses..

161

for printing and binding..

759, 1366

Condemnation of Streets, etc. , D. C. ,

address of Gen. Horace Porter at John Paul

appropriation for....

491, 1128

Jones ceremonies to be printed in .. 829

Condemned Cannon,

Congressional Reference Library,

loaned to Petoskey, Mich .

1293 appropriation for custodian , etc ......... 397, 945

0

Preston, Iowa...

1422 Conine, Charles,

Condiment,

pension increased ..

1636

articles used for, included as " food " in

Conine, Fanny L. (widow),

Pure Food Act .....

769 pension increased .

1886

Conduits, D. C. ,

Conklin, George,

under Seventh street from Center Market

pension increased ..

1838

for refrigeration extended ....

93 Conley, Carrie A. (widow) ,

Conecuh River, Ala.,

pension increased .

appropriation for improvement of... ..... 1087 Conley, Charles H.,

Conecuh River, Fla . and Ala .,

pension increased .

... 1771 ... 1717

appropriation for improvement of.....

1087 Conley, John A. ,

Coney Island Channel, New York Harbor,

pension increased .

1622

appropriation for improvement of..

1077 Conn, James L.,

survey of, ordered ..

538 pension increased .

2465

Confectionery,

Conneaut, Ohio,

included as "food " in Pure Food Act ..... 769 appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1095

Confederate Battle Flags,

Connecticut,

delivery to Confederate Memorial Literary

may return certain ordnance purchased ... 105

Society, Richmond, Va., of uni-

value to be credited to militia quota..

105

dentified ..

837

appropriation for..

106

Confederate Soldiers,

Connecticut Avenue Bridge, D. C. ,

deficiency appropriation for claims for

appropriation for completing, across Rock

property taken from ..

1381

Creek..

492

Confederate Soldiers and Sailors, graves of, who died in northern prisons or hospitals, to be located, etc ..

for paving approaches to . 66 time extended for completing. 56 "Connecticut," Battle Ship,

1128 1128 .

headstones, care, etc ...

56 limit of cost increased ..

583

appropriation for expenses .

56 Connecticut River, Conn.,

commissioner to be appointed ; duties,

appropriation for lighting.

713, 1320

salary, etc.. Congaree River, S. C. ,

56

for improvement of, between Hartford

and Holyoke ; surveys, etc ....

1075

appropriation for improvement of; exten-

below Hartford...

1077

sion..

1084 preliminary examination of, to be made for

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 1116

removing obstructions Eight Mile

Congdon, Caroline W. (widow),

River and East Branch ..

1112

pension increased .

2529 Connell, John W.,

Congress ,

pension...

2265

appropriation for printing and binding

Conner, William D.,

for..

759, 1366 pension increased .

2071

INDEX.

3365

Connell, Willie, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Connellsville, Pa.,
acquiring site for public building at, authorized
appropriation for. Connelly, Edmund T., alias John Marks,
pension increased . Connersville, Ind.,
acquiring site for public building at, authorized ...

Page. 349
784 795 1543
782

Consular Officers -Continued. receiving more than $ 1,000 a year forbidden to transact private business.... notarial acts required of ... fees to be prescribed .. all fees to be turned into the Treasury
payment of consular agents from compensation of vice and deputy officers.. official stamps to be affixed to documents
by... no act valid without ..

Page.
101 101 101 101 101 101
102 102

appropriation for.

794 Consular Regulations,

Connery, Charles F., pension increased .

appropriation for rewriting...

925

2578 Consular Service,

Connor, Hilia Ann (widow),

reorganization of..

99

pension.

1436 consuls-general, classification and salaries . 99

Connor, John,

consuls, classification and salaries ...

99

pension increased .

1661 vice and deputy officers....

100

Conover, Daniel S.,

temporary service of consuls as ..

100

pension increased .

2209 consular agents continued ..

100

Conrad, James M. ,

commercial agents abolished .

100

pension increased .

1636 consuls-general at large, authorized.

100

Consolidated Index to Statutes at Large,

salary, appointment, duties....

100

deficiency appropriation for preparing.... 1395

powers; bond ...

100

Conspiracies in Restraint of Trade, etc.,

clerks receiving more than $ 1,000 a year to

investigation ordered of, in coal or oil..... 823

be American citizens .

101

Constantinople, Turkey,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for hire of steam launch for

embassy ..

289, 919

business prohibitions extended to practice

of law..

101

may be extended to feed officers, etc.

101

notarial acts required ; fees....

101

for purchase of legation buildings, etc... 293
for clerk hire, consulate-general at.... 294, 924 "Constitum," Frigate,

fees, official or unofficial, to be paid into

the Treasury.....

101

allowance to consular agents .

101

appropriation for restoring to original con-

dition, etc..

573

Constitution of the United States,

to be adopted by constitutional convention

of Arizona..

279

Oklahoma ....

269

Construction Plants, Navy- Yards,

appropriation for repairs and improve-

ments ....

573, 1195

Consular Agents,

vice and deputy officers, additional com-

pensation....

101

invoice fees to be prescribed by President. 101

documentary stamps required for official

acts ....

102

in effect June 30 , 1906 ..

102

inconsistent laws repealed..

102

Consulates ,

appropriation for repairs to premises ........ 291 , 921

for clerk hire ......

293, 923

appointment of, when necessary..

100

receiving more than $1,000 a year not al-

maximum allowance increased. for contingent expenses...

294 295, 926

lowed to transact any private busi-

ness .....

101

Consular Clerks,

appropriation for salaries.

293, 923

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses..

27, 635, 667, 1403

clerks receiving $ 1,000 a year or more must

be citizens...

101

compensation increased..........

923

Consular Courts,

jurisdiction ofconsuls in China, diminished 814

Consular Fees,

to be paid into the Treasury..

101

payment to consular agents from; maxi-

mum..

101

for certifying invoices to be prescribed by

the President......

101

adhesive official stamps denoting, to be

affixed to all documents ...

102

Consular Inspectors, appropriation for salaries......... for expenses....

293, 923 293, 923

Consular Marshals,

appropriation for, in China, Korea, an

Turkey..

294, 925

Consuls, appropriation for salaries......

293, 923

duties of, in estates of deceased American

citizens in China.......

815

reports, etc., to United States court.

815

new classification of...

99

may temporarily act as vice and deputy

officers ..

100

prohibition against transacting business ex-

tended to practicing law.....

101

Consuls-General,

appropriation for salaries..

293, 923

new classification of..

99

prohibition against transacting business ex-

tended to practicing law..

101

Consumptive Sanitarium,

lands granted to Minnesota for......

195

Consular Officers,

appropriation for transportation; allowance

for..

288, 922

Consumptives' Hospital, D. C., appropriation for erection, etc. , for indigent tuberculosis patients ...

511 :

for paying heirs of, dying abroad ..

290, 920 Contagious Diseases,

for bringing home from abroad, remains

appropriation for preventing introduction

of..

290, 920

of yellow fever and other....

301

deficiency appropriation for salaries.. for transportation .....

667 admission of aliens afflicted with loath-.

1372

some, etc. , excluded ....

899

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -49

3366

INDEX.

Contagious Diseases-Continued.

Page.

importation of aliens with loathsome, etc. , ·

unlawful; penalty ...

901

decision of board of special inquiry, final . 901

Contagious Diseases, D. C.,

appropriation for preventing spread of.. 506, 1145

for isolating wards for minor..

506, 1146

bodies of persons in public charge dying

from, to be incinerated ..

123

crematorium for, etc ..

123

notice required of existence, etc., of cer-

tain ..

889

persons responsible ..

890

punishment for violations ..

890

regulations authorized .

890

repeal of former laws..

890

Contentnia Creek, N. C.,

·

appropriation for improvement of......... 1083

Contested Election Cases, House of Representa-

tives,

deficiency appropriation for allowances .. 661

for compiling testimony, etc..

662

Contingent Expenses, appropriation for Army. for foreign missions ..

240, 1158 289, 919

for consulates ...

295, 926

for Indian Service..

331 , 1020

for Senate .

391 , 937

for House of Representatives. for Library of Congress..

396, 942 399, 946

for Executive Office.. for Department of State . for Treasury Department..

401 , 947 402, 949
409, 956

for Auditor for Post-Office Department. 410, 957

for War Department..

421, 966

for Navy Department ......

427, 973

for Interior Department..

433, 979

for Civil Service Commission .

433, 979

for Post-Office Department..

439, 985

for Department ofJustice..

441 , 986

for Census Office...

444, 989

for Department of Commerce and Labor 446 , 991

for Court of Claims..

448, 993

for District of Columbia ..

488, 1125

for Department of Agriculture.. for Independent Treasury . for Fisheries Bureau....

692, 1277 706, 1312 720, 1328

for land offices ..

723, 1332

allotment of annual, to prevent deficien-

cies .....

49

waiver only for emergencies on written

order .

49

penalty for violations..

49

Contract Laborers,

admission of alien, excluded ..

899

Contract Surgeons, Army, appropriation for. for mileage.. deficiency appropriation for mileage .

245, 1163 246, 1163
843

Contracts, D. C., retent on construction work to be held for

repairs; term..

94

extended to buildings, etc

929

bonds not required for, if less than $500 .. 546

Contracts, Government,

certified checks may be accepted on

guaranty for naval supplies....

841

limitation on all; exception for Army and

Navy...

255

specific terms required to execute; involv-

ing amount exceeding appropria-

tions ..

764

work on river and harbor improvements

may be done by........

1110

Contracts in Restraint of Trade, etc.,

Page

investigation ordered of, in coal or oil.... 823

Controller Bay, Alaska,

construction of trestle authorized from

Whale Island to mainland of...........

803

Convention ofthe Protestant Episcopal Church of the Diocese ofWashington,

powers and authority of corporation

amended ...

875

Conventions (see also Treaties),

Alaskan boundary, with Great Britain .... 2948

copyright, with Japan

2887

extradition , with Great Britain , crimes

added

2903

with Japan , crimes added ..

2951

irrigation, with Mexico ...

2953

parcels-post, with Australia

2872

with Bermuda

2983

with Denmark

2965

with Ecuador

2974

with Peru...

2957

with Sweden

2889

postal, with Panama

2879

trade-marks, with Roumania

2901

Converse, James E.,

pension increased

2551

Convicts, D. C. ,

appropriation for support, etc., of, out of

the District...

508, 1148

deficiency appropriation for support, etc.. 1379

Conway, Silas P.,

pension increased .

2031

Conwell, Hugh,

payment to .

2661

Conwell, William,

pension increased .

2627

Conyngham , John R.,

pension increased .

2260

Cook, Adam ,

pension increased .

1620

Cook County, Ill.,

status of prior naturalization records , etc.,

of criminal court of....

631

Cook, E. W.,

payment to..

2661

Cook, Eunice (widow),

pension increased

2382

Cook, George W. ,

pension increased

2708

Cook, John, Indian War,

pension increased .

1756

Cook, John, West Virginia Volunteers,

pension increased .

... 1537

Cook, John T.,

pension increased

1767

Cook, Joseph F.,

pension increased

2195

Cook, Lutellus,

pension increased

1788

Cook, Nelson,

pension increased .

1823

Cook, Newton G.,

pension increased

1859

Cook, Philip,

pension increased .

1961

Cook, Pleasant W.,

pension increased

2032

Cook, Samuel,

pension increased ..

2275

Cook, Sidney H.,

pension increased

2150

Cook, Stephen H. S.,

pension increased ..

2455

INDEX .

3367

Cook, Taingena, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Cook, Thomas H., pension increased
Cook, William, pension increased .
Cool, Benjamin H., pension increased
Cooley, Adolphus, pension increased ..
Cooley, Franklin, pension increased .
Cooley, George L., pension increased
Cooley, Henrietta C. (widow), pension increased .
Cooley, Marius S., pension increased .
Coomer, Justus B., pension increased .
Cooney, Patrick, pension increased .
Cooper, Alonzo, pension increased .
Cooper, Daniel H. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to...
Cooper, Henry, Indian Allottee.
fee-simple title to... Cooper Island, Cass Lake, Minn..
granted to Minnesota for public park or State forest reserve..
Cooper, John, pension increased
Cooper, Joseph J., pension increased .
Cooper, Nathaniel, pension increased
Cooper, Seth H., pension increased
Cooper, William T., pension increased.
Coos Bay, Oreg. , preliminary examination to . be made of, and bar entrance...
Coos River, Oreg., appropriation for improvement of........
Coosa River, Ga. and Ála.,
appropriation for improvement of.. bridge authorized across, at Talladega, Ala . completion and use of Lock No. 4 , author-
ized , conditions....
dam, etc., authorized at Lock and Dam No. 12....
dams across, near Lock No. 2, authorized, by riparian owners .
preliminary examination of, to be made .. for Dam No. 5 ....... at Horseleg Shoals..
Coover, Samuel E., pension increased .
Cope, Isaac (son), pension .
Copenhagen, Denmark, classification and salary of consul-general..
Copher, Reuben, pension increased .
Coppage, Joseph W., pension increased
Copper River, Alaska,
bridge authorized across, at Childs Glacier.
Copra , duty on, Philippines tariff.
Copyright Convention, with Japan...

Page. 356 2527 1696 2043 2526 1998 1638
2711 1912 2447 2713 2230 380
380
352 2503 1566 1522
1930 2708
1116 1107 1085 884 211 1288 183 1111 1111 1112 2452 2011
99 2588 1891 804
26 2887

Copyright Office,

Page.

appropriation for register clerks, etc.... 399, 945

for printing and binding..

761 , 1368

for Catalogue of Title Entries of the.. 761 , 1368

Copyrights, proclamation extending to citizens of Nor-

way benefits of...

3111

protection of matter in " Rules and Specifications for Grading Lumber, etc.".
Coquille Forest Reserve, Oreg., proclamation establishing...
Coquille River, Oreg., appropriation for improvement of...

836 3299 1107

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1116

Coraopolis and Osborne Bridge Company,

may bridge Ohio River, Pa ....

538

Coraopolis, Pa.,

bridge authorized across Ohio River to Os-

borne from....

538

Corbett, P. S.,

credit in accounts .

2313

Corbett, Wiley,

payment to.

2663

Corbin, Daniel O.,

pension increased .

2330

Corcoran Gallery of Art, D. C.,

refund of taxes..

869

Cordner, Albert D. ,

pension increased

1658

Corea (see Korea).

Corey, George L.,

pension increased

2713

Corinth and Shiloh Electric Railway Company,

granted right of way through Shiloh Na-

tional Park..

388

Cork, Ireland, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire.....

100 294, 924

Corley, William B. ,

pension increased

2570

Cornelius, Adam P. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Cornelius, Alice, Indian Allottee, fee simple title to..
Cornelius, Alice, Indian Allottee, fee simple title to..
Cornelius, Frank, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to.. Cornelius, Joshua, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to.. Cornelius, William, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to... Cornell, Charles H.,
may dam Niobrara River, Nebr ... granted right of way for trolley line . Fort
Niobrara * Military Reservation, Nebr... Cornell, Nelson, pension increased Corner, Watson L., pension increased .

381 . 380 381 381 380 380 297
297 2547 2734

Cornett, Clark, pension increased .

... 2017

Corning, N. Y., construction of public ized at
appropriation for.
Cornman, Phillip W., pension increased

building

author777
791, 1297
1511

Corns, Mary T. (widow), pension increased ..
Cornwall, Ontario, classification and salary of consul.................
Cornwell, John S., pension increased ..

2012 100 2504

3368

INDEX .

Coroner's Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries .
for expenses ..

Page. 484, 1121 489, 1126

deficiency appropriation for deputy's

services

640, 1376

for expenses .

.640, 1376

Corporation Common Carrier,

liable for violations of interstate com-

merce regulations....

587

Corporation Counsel's Office, P. C., appropriation for salaries .. for rent of office ..

484, 1121 1125

for assistant, condemning land for alleys,

etc ....

1128

to prosecute violations of veterinary regu-

lations ...

873

Corporations,

liable for violations of Pure, Food Act, by

officers, agents, etc...

772

money contributions prohibited by national banks and Federal corpora-

tions for political elections

864

by other, at Federal elections .

864

penalty.

865

Corporations Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner, clerks,

- etc..

442, 987

for special attorneys, etc..

442, 987

Corporations, D. C. (see also Incorporations, D. C.),

charter amended , Masonic Mutual Relief

Association..

214

Grand Lodge Independent Order of Odd

Fellows may sell Odd Fellows Hall,

etc..

614

service on foreign, may be on employee ..

874

Supreme Lodge, Knights of Pythias ; prop-

erty holdings increased..

934

Corpus Christi, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of Turtle

Cove Channel from Aransas Pass to;

contracts ..

1091

Corsicana, Tex.,

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized...

781

appropriation for..

794, 1297

Corsine, Calvin,

pension increased

2208

Corwin, Quincy,

pension increased .

1870

Cory, Abraham M.,

pension ...

1450

Coscob, Conn.,

preliminary examination of charbor to be

made ..

1112

Cosgro, James C.,

pension increased

2798

Cosgrove, Carrie E. (widow), pension increased .

... 2504

Cosgrove, James W. ,

pension increased .

2495

Costa Rica, Nicaragua and, appropriation for minister to .. for secretary of legation..

286, 916 287, 917

Costinett, Carrie E. (widow),

pension...

1829

Cotten, Aurelia (widow),

pension....

1663

Cotton Boll Weevil, Mexican,

appropriation for emergency fund to meet

spread of..

695, 1280

Cotton Crop Condition Reports,

Page.

to be issued the same day as ginners' re-

ports...

691, 1276

Cotton Products,

appropriation for investigation of foreign

markets for.....

442

Cotton, John R. ,

pension increased

1620

Cotton Statistics,

appropriation for collecting, by Census

Office...

443, 989

Cotton Textiles, modification of Philippine customs tax on.. 24

Cottrell, George,

payment to.

2661

Cottrill, Cassy (widow),

pension...

1819

Coudrey, Hon. H. M.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses..

661

Coughanour, George W.,

pension increased ...

1855

Coughlin, John,

pension increased ..

1972

Coulson, Saul,

pension increased .

2363

Coulter, John A. ,

pension increased .

1512

Coulton, Andrew J., alias Samuel Myers,

pension increased.

1654

Council Bluffs, Iowa,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

774

appropriation for..

790

Council City, Alaska,

appropriation for survey of trail from Fair-

banks to....

316

Council City and Solomon River Railroad Com-·

pany,

time extended for completing railroad in

Alaska by; license fee deferred ... 6, 1225

Counter, Octave,

pension increased .

1856

Counterfeiting, etc. , Crimes, appropriation for suppressing..

708, 1314

deficiency appropriation for suppressing .. 1401

Countryman, Joseph,

pension increased .

2654

Counts, Mary A. (widow) ,

pension increased ....

2124

Coursoll, Cecilia, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Coursoll, Joseph, jr., Indian' Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Coursoll, Mary, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Court-House, D. C. ,

appropriation for care, etc.. for repairs; elevators .. for file cases, clerk's office ..

508, 1148 750, 1357
1148

· for repairing, etc. , old circuit court rec-

ords ..

1148

deficiency appropriation, for repairs....

40

Court of Appeals, D. C.,

appropriation for justices, clerks, etc .... 447, 992

for reporter; expenses...

447,992

for reports of decisions .:

507, 1146

47

deficiency appropriation for stenographers 41

to justices..

77

to hear appeals from juvenile court .

Court of Arbitration, International Bureau, Permanent,
appropriation for share of expenses ..... 291, 921

INDEX.

3369

Court of Claims, D. C., appropriation for judges, clerks, etc....... for auditors, etc... for contingent expenses. for reporting decisions . for pay of custodian..

Page. 448, 993
448, 993 448, 993
448, 993 993

for alterations, etc., to building. for printing and binding...

750 761, 1368

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses...

40

for paying judgments of.

44, 664, 1400

Cherokee claims...

664

for judgments Indian depredation

claims...

44, 664, 1400

for printing and binding. Lucien B. Howry may be appointed an
auditor...
to determine amount to attorneys in claims of Cherokee intermarried whites ....
Colville Reservation cession....

1398
1390
340 378

to determine claim of Joseph P. T. Fish for

allotment as Shawnee minor child ... 344

S. W. Peel for services to Choctaw Na-

tion

2415

Peter P. Pitchlynn's heirs against Choc-

taws..

345

Esther Rousseau.

2408

Sisseton and Wahpeton Sioux for for-

feited annuities ....

372

Snare and Trist Company

2567

Vann and Adair against Osages.

365

to determine damages for lands, etc., taken

for new canal at Saint Marys Falls,

Mich .....

1099

to hear claims of estate of Charles F. Winton

1

against Mississippi Choctaws.....

140

claims of Sac and Fox Indians in Iowa

against Sac and Fox Indians in Okla-

homa and the United States ....

1055

to hear Indian dépredation claim of John B. Brown....
John C. Lynch..
Augustus Trabing... suit of Cherokees in, to determine validity
of laws as to alienation restrictions, etc., authorized ..
appeals; attorneys, fees .. Courter, William J.,
pension increased

2411 2411 2311
1028 1028
2550

Courts (see United States Courts). Courts- Martial, Army,
appropriation for expenses. Covell, Thomas G.,
pension increased .

245, 1163 1690

Cowan, Campbell,

pension increased

2568

Cowan, Garrett F.,

pension increased .

2734

Cowan, Henry R., pension increased .
Cowan, John, pension increased .

1964 2557

Coward, Nathan, pension increased
Cowell, James L., pension increased
Cowell, Oscar N., pension increased .

1787 1448 2777

Cowgill, Alexander M.,

pension increased .

2453

Cowlitz River, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of...

1108

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1118

Cox, Columbus,

pension increased .

2206

Cox, Hartley B., pension increased .

Page. 2021

Cox, Hugh M.

pension increased

2584

Cox, James,

payment to..

2661

Cox, James B.,

pension increased

1767

Cox, James D.,
pension increased Cox , Jannie, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to Cox, Joanna L. (widow) ,
pension increased . Cox, Leonard Martin,

2538 357 2319

may be restored as civil engineer, Navy ... 1407

Cox, Wesley G. ,

pension increased .

2045

Coy, Edward,

pension increased .

1466

Coyle, Catherine (widow),

pension...

1657

Coyle, John B.,

pension increased .

2266

Coyner, Frances (widow), pension..
Crab Island, Lake Champlain,

1759

appropriation for marking graves of sol-

diers and sailors on...

258

Crabtree, Job B.,

pension increased

2247

Craig, Daniel,

pension increased

1880

Craig, Franklin,

pension increased

2682

Craig, John B.,

pension increased

1746

Craig, Thomas C.,

pension increased

1780

Craighton, Solomon,

pension increased

2262

Crpaeignos,ioMnarignacrreetasEe.d (widow),

2706

Cramer, Andrew,

pension increased

2601

Cramer, Peter,

pension increased .

2211

Crampton, David F.,

pension increased .

1837

Crandall, Thomas P. , pension increased .
Crandell, Henry, pension increased..
Crandol, James, pension increased .
Crane, John H., pension increased ..
Crane, John W., pension increased .

2080 1694 2044 1709 2668

Crane, William,

pension increased.

2472

Crane, William B.,

pension increased .

2398

tr

Crane, William J.,

pension....

2814

Cranford, John W. , late a Representative,

printing of eulogies on, authorized .

826

Cranston, William H., pension increased .
Crater Lake National Park,
appropriation for management, etc .... Cravens, Benjamin B.,
pension increased .

1440 729, 1337
2726

Cravens, John O.,

pension increased .

2773

3370

INDEX.

8 22226

Crawford, Anthony H., pension increased .
Crawford, Emery, pension increased ..

Page. 1538
2327

Crawford, Francis M., pension increased .

.: 2023

Crawford, John,

pension increased ..

1961

Crawford, Nebr.,.

grant of part of Fort Robinson Reservation

to, for park and water power

461

Crawford, Robert B. ,

pension increased.

2238

Crawfordsville, Ind., l·imit of cost increased, public building appropriation for...
Crazy Mountains Forest Reserve, Mont:,
proclamation establishing .
Creager, John W., pension increased .

773 789 3224 1809

Creasey, George W.,

pension increased .

1793

Crecelius, Clark,

pension increased ..

2648

Creek Indians (see also Five Civilized Tribes),

appropriation for sale and leasing lands of,

338, 1025

for establishing highways..

339

for tribal schools ..

340, 1026

deficiency appropriation for expenses sale

and leasing lands of..

39

equalization of allotments provisions re-

stored ..

138

payment to C. W. Turner.

344

persons included on roll of freedmen.

138

Creek Nation (see also Creek Indians) ,

west boundary line declared ...

364

Crefeld, Germany,

classification and salary of consul .

100

appropriation for clerk hire...

294, 924

Creiss, Theresia (daughter),

pension..

1905

Crematory, D. C., Public,

appropriation for maintenance..

124, 1146

bodies of persons in custody of public officer

dying from contagious diseases to be

incinerated in...

123

construction on Washington Asylum

grounds ...

123

rules for maintenance, etc .; fees for private

incineration .

123

appropriation for construction and main-

tenance

124

Creston, Iowa,

terms of court at..

127

Criers, United States Courts,

appropriation for pay of.. deficiency appropriation for pay. Crimes,

... 755, 1361 1390

appropriation for surpressing counterfeit-

ing, etc..

708, 1314

for prosecution of.

752, 1358

Crimes and Misdemeanors ,

penalty for violating provision of Arkansas

River Bridge bill..

22

delivery of coal, D. C. , without weight

certificate ...

95

defacing, etc. , property D. C. , increased. indecent exposure, etc. , D. C. , increased. 127

taking away another's property, D. C. ,

increased .

127

accepting fee for special pension act

.services .

133 , 1407

violating anchorage, etc. , rules, Saint

Marys River, modified .

136

Crimes and Misdemeanors-Continued.

Page.

penalty for illegal fishing in Alaskan waters

by aliens .

264

violating regulations, employment agen-

cies, D. C.....

308

additional..

848

illegal landing, etc., of sponges..

313

unauthorized erection, etc., of aids to

navigation....

324

violating regulations, etc., for construct-

ing dams across navigable waters ... 386 violations of interstate commerce regula-

tions by corporations, common car-

riers...

587

neglecting to obey order establishing

maximum rate for transportation... 591

failure to make reports by interstate com-

mon carrier..

593

failure to keep, etc., accounts by carriers. 594

violating speed regulations for vehicles,

D. C.

622

killing game birds, D. C ..

808

. hunting wild animals without permit,

D. C....

808

killing game, etc. , with firearms without

permit, D. C..

809

hunting water fowl with other than row-

boats, D. C...

809

violating regulations, etc., employment

agencies, D. C. , additional..

848

violating requirement of license for

masters, etc., of vessels....

864

money contributions by corporations at

political elections.....

865

violating veterinary regulations , D. C... 873

violating registered nurses' regulations,

D. C.

889

violating provisions to prevent spread

of contagious diseases, D. C ....... 890

importing alien prostitutes, etc...

900

assisting, etc., importation of alien con-

tract labor....

900

soliciting immigration of aliens .

900

illegally landing alien immigrants .

900

bringing aliens subject to certain phys-

ical disabilities....

901

permitting illegal landing of alien immi-

grants ...

904

failing to return, etc. , illegal alien immi-

grant....

904

refusing to return alien subject to depor-

tation...

.905

false statements before immigration offi-

cers .

906

aiding unlawful entrance of alien anarch-

ists, etc.....

909

violating space, etc., requirements for emigrant passengers on ships ....... 911
unauthorized use of milk bottles, etc. ,

D. C.....

1007

violating requirements for reporting

births, D. C.....

1011

selling, etc. , intoxicating liquors to mi-

nors by unlicensed persons, D. C... 1249

violating sixteen-hour law..

1416

punishment for exceeding allotment ofcon-

tingent expenses , etc ....

49

unauthorized wearing badges of soldiers'

organizations, etc. , .D . C ..

62

violations of fire-escape act, D. C...

71

23

removing, etc., child committed by juve-

nile court, D. C ...

75

embezzling moneys paid into juvenile

court.

76°

liquor selling, etc. , town sites, Kiowa,

etc., lands, Okla ..

80

INDEX .

3371

imes and Misdemeanors-Continued .

'Page.

punishment for unlawful trespassing, etc., Battle Mountain Sanitarium Re-

serve, S. Dak ....

83

violating bridge regulations..

85

abandonment, etc. , of wife or child, D. C. 86

hindering, etc. , abatement of nuisances,

D. C...

115

failing to deliver, etc. , property of Five

Civilized Tribes ..

141

obstructing highways, Indian Territory. 146

violating law condemning insanitary

buildings, D. C ..............

160

illegal voting, etc. , for Delegate from

Alaska....

174

illegal acts of election officers , Alaska... 174 violations of pharmacy regulations, D. C. 182

cutting trees on public lands for turpen-

tine, etc..

208

unlawful recovery of spirits from fortified

wines ...

216

rectifying, etc., fortified sweet wines,

etc. , with other spirits ..

218

violating denatured -alcohol provisions .. 217

violation of compulsory-education pro-

visions, D. C..

219, 220

giving false fire alarms, D. C..

220

unauthorized excavation, etc. , of antiq-

uities on public lands ..

225

false marking, etc. , gold and silver arti-

cles ..

262

violating liquor prohibitions, Oklahoma . 269

unauthorized entries or departures, quar-

antine stations....

300

violating quarantine laws and regulations by masters or owners of vessels ... 300

illegal copying, etc. , approved roll, Five

Civilized Tribes ...

341

violating salmon, etc. , fisheries regula-

tions, Alaska ....

481

hunting, etc., birds or eggs on game pre-

serves..

536

extortion by officers, etc. , extended to

include attempts...

46

shanghaiing, merchant seamen..

551

extended to high seas, etc..

1233

issuing or receiving free interstate passen-

ger transportation...

585

giving or receiving transportation re-

bates, etc..

587

false entries, etc. , in carriers' accounts,

etc ..

594

divulging facts, etc. , by interstate com-

merce examiner..

594

issuing, etc. , false naturalization certifi-

cates ..

602

engraving, printing, selling, etc. , counterfeit naturalization certificates .... 602

illegally issuing naturalization certifi-

cates .

602

unlawful possession of blank naturaliza-

tion certificates ..

602

failing to make returns, etc. , of naturali-

zation fees..

602

receiving additional naturalization fees

by clerks...

602

issuing false acknowledgments in natu-

ralization cases ..

603

obtaining naturalization by fraud ; acces-

sories .

603

illegal hunting Grand Canyon Forest Reserve wild animal breeding place.. 607

willfully disturbing ruins, etc., Mesa

Verde Park, Colo ....

617

unlawful use of waters of Niagara River,

etc ...

627

888888888

Crimes and Misdemeanors--Continued .

Page.

punishment for violating meat- inspection

law requirements ..

677, 1263

violating any provision of meat- inspec-

tion law .

678, 1264

offering bribes, etc. , to meat-inspection

officers..

678, 1264

accepting gifts, etc. , by meat-inspection

officers...

678, 1264

selling, etc., unsound meats or meat

products..

678, 1265

manufacture of adulterated or mis-

branded food or drugs

768

traffic , etc. , in adulterated or misbranded

food or drugs.

768

juvenile court, D. C. , to have jurisdiction

of offenders under 17 ..

73

Criminal Cases,

writs of error to Supreme Court allowed United States in certain instances .. 1246

Criminals,

appropriation for expenses, bringing home

from foreign countries..

289, 919

deficiency appropriation for bringing home,

from abroad...

27

admission of alien, excluded .

899

convention for extradition of, with Great

Britain, adding bribery and bank-

ruptcy crimes .

2903

with Japan, adding embezzlement and

larceny

2951

treaty for extradition of, with Denmark

extended to island possessions, etc. with Haiti .
with Norway, modified as to accessories . with Panama..

2898 2858 2865 2851

Criminals, D. C., Insane, code provisions extended to charges, etc. , by information..
Crisfield, Md. , appropriation for improvement of harbor..
Crismon, Charles, pension increased .
Crissip, Pleasant, pension increased ..
Critchfield, Lyman, jr. , ension..
ites, William H., pension increased .
Crittenden, Frank, pension increased .
Crockett , William G., pension increased ..
Croft, James E., pension increased .
Crofton, Ann H. (widow) , pension increased ...
Crome, August, pension...
Crome, William, pension increased ..
Cromer, Richard S. , pension increased ..
Crommett, Francis W., pension increased .
Crooker, Jacob P. , pension increased..
Crooks, William, pension increased ..

113 1081 1833 2400 1710 1437 1700 1628 2419 2130 1975 1545 1696 2272 2687 2464

Crookston, Minn. ,

construction of public building authorized

at...

777

appropriation for..

791 , 1297

Crop Reports, appropriation for expenses of monthly. 691 , 1276

3372

INDEX.

Cross County, Ark., bridge authorized across Saint Francis River in Poinsett County and .......
Cross, Lemuel, pension increased .
Cross, Levi E., pension increased ...
Cross, Maria (widow), pension increased .
Cross of Honor, D. C. , The American, incorporated; purposes, etc ..
Cross, Rachel, Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed ; sale for cemetery authorized ..

Page. 819 2125 1642 2538 161
1031

Cross, Theron, pension increased ..
Crossman, Greenleaf W., pension increased .
Crouch, David F., pension increased .
Crouch, William H., pension increased.
Crow Agency, Mont., appropriation for Indian agent at.........
Crow, Allen, pension increased .
Crow Creek Agency, S. Dak.,

2584 2381 2061 2141 353, 1034 2155

appropriation for Indian agent at................ 369, 1046 Crow Indian Reservation, Mont. ,

deficiency appropriation for opening lands

ceded on; reimbursement..

205

proclamation opening to entry, ceded por-

tion of

3200

time extended homesteaders to establish

residence on opened lands of...

843

Crow Indians, Mont.,

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 353, 1034

for fulfilling treaty with..

353, 1034

Crow, Joseph,

payment to..

1771

Crow Wing River, Minn. ,

dam authorized across, between Morrison

and Cass counties....

296

Crowe, Charles E.,

pension increased .

1582

Crowell, John H. ,

pension increased ....

1494

Crouley, John, pension increased .

2388

Crowley, Thomas, pension increased .
Crozer, James G., pension increased ..
Cruisers, Armored, appropriation for fire-control instruments .
Cruisers, Navy, appropriation for fire-control instruments .
Crum, William A., pension increased ..

1993 2776 1180 1180 2506

" Crusader," Yacht,

appropriation for reimbursing owner ..

1291

Crystal River, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of.

1086

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1112

Cuartel Lot, Monterey , Cal. ,

title to, released to city....

267

Cuba,
appropriation for minister to....... for secretary of legation .. for second secretary..

286, 916 287, 917 287, 918

for paying claims for losses, etc. , of pri-

vate property in...

1165

for marking places where American sol-

diers fell in ...

1175

Cuba -Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for signal service

expenses, pacification of.

1382

reimbursement for army pacification ex-

penses by, authorized ....

1381

residents of, not liable for immigration tax . 898

Cuendet, Julius S.,

pension increased .

2142

Culberson, Sherwood F.,

pension increased..

2037

Culbertson, Otho E. D. ,

pension increased .

2796

Culebra, P. R. ,

appropriation for public works , naval sta-

tion ...

1188

Culins, Peter M.,

pension increased .

1866

Cullen, Michael,

pension increased .

2669

Culver, Charles H.,

pension increased .

1706

Cumberland River,

appropriation for improvement of, above

Nashville; locks and dams, Nos. 3,

4, 5, 6, and 7 ; contracts ..

1093

lock and dam 21 ..

737, 1345

bridge_authorized across between Celina,

Tenn., and Bakertown, Ky ..

1254

Clarksville, Tenn ...

134

between Lineport, Tenn. , and Tennessee

Rolling Works, Ky.

58, 1254

survey ordered , below Nashville..

1093

time extended for bridging, at Carthage,

Tenn ..

51

Nashville, Tenn

927

two bridges authorized across , at Nash-

ville, Tenn...

135

Cumberland Sound, Ga. and Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1085

Cummin, William E.,

pension increased ..

2428

Cummings, William,

pension increased .

1799

Cummings, William G. ,

pension increased...

2665

Cummins, Joseph D. ,

pension increased .

2173

Cunard Steamship Company,

deficiency appropriation for paying judg-

ment ..

660

Cundiff, Stephen,

pension increased .

2110

Cunningham, Edward R.,

pension increased ...

2273

Cunningham, George,

pension..

1975

Curaçao, West Indies,

classification and salary of consul

100

Curley, Patrick,

pension increased .

1608

Curnutt, John H.,

pension increased .

2341

Curran, William,

pension increased .

2695

Currency Act,

issues of gold certificates, and treasury

notes modified..

1289

depositaries may receive all classes of Gov-

ernment receipts ......

1290

retirement of national-bank notes; monthly

limit raised..

1290

Current River, Ark. ,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1093

Currier, Aaron T.,

pension increased .

1483

INDEX.

3373

Currier, Marcus M., pension increased.

Page. 2432

Currier, Theodore S.,

pension increased ..

2078

Currituck Sound, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of waterway through, from Norfolk to Albe-

marle Sound ..

1083

Curry, Oliver,

pension increased ..

2473

Curtis, Elijah,

pension increased ..

2088

Curtis, Joseph A. C.,

pension increased ..

1871

Curtis, Levi E., pension increased ..

2549

Curtis, Levi W.,

pension increased .

2677

Curtis, Oren D., pension increased .
Cushing, Andrew J., pension increased .

2472 2367

Cushing, Martha G. (widow),

pension increased .

1501

Cushman, Ellen S. (sister),

·

pension..

1884

Cusick, Lizzie B. (widow),

pension increased ..

1933

Custer County, Mont. ,

appropriation for bridge built by, across Tongue River, at Fort Keogh.....
Custer, William A., pension increased .

88 2098

Custodians, Public Buildings, appropriation for assistant.

707, 1313

deficiency appropriation for assistant, and

janitors..

45, 832

Customs (see also Immediate Transportation

of Dutiable Goods and Reciprocity

Arrangements),

appropriation for local appraisers' meet-

ings..

708, 1315

for automatic recording scales contin-

ued ...

708, 1315

for collecting revenue from, additional .. 1315 for motor boarding boat, Galveston , Tex . 1011

deficiency. appropriation for local apprais-

ers' meetings..

28

for repaying importers excess of deposits . 45

for inspectors at New York..

636,.1373

for refunding stamps on manifests .

1373

appraiser at New York, salary increased.. 1373

assistant appraisers at New York, number

increased..

874

special deputy and deputy appraisers au-

thorized ; duties ...

874

deputy collectors, etc. , to be appointed by

Secretary of the Treasury..

880

entry and clearance of vessels for petro-

leum at San Luis Obispo, Port Har-

ford , and Monterey, Cal.

23

expenses, detecting, etc. , frauds upon rev-

enue from, allowance increased .... 1315

fees to collectors, etc. , to be paid from appro-

priation for collecting revenue from. 1315 free admissions of exhibits, Jamestown

Exposition; conditions...

766

invoices from Philippines to be authenti-

cated by collector of customs ....

539

permits to load or unload at night, vessels

from foreign ports....

633

extended to bonded carriers from United.

Stales ports.

633

solicitor of, and assistants authorized; du-

ties, etc..

763

Customs Collection Districts (see also Imme- Page.

diate Transportation of Dutiable

Goods),

established , Sabine, Tex...

302

surveyor, Salt Lake City, Utah, salary in-

creased ..

452

Customs Duties,

charged on freight transshipped through

foreign countries if rates not made

public.

586

Customs Duties, Philippine (see Philippine

Tariff, 1905).

Customs Laws and Decisions, Drgest of,

appropriation for preparing...

840

Customs Revenue,

appropriation for collecting; additional... 1315 deficiency appropriation for collecting... 28,

45, 636, 665, 1401

amount for detection of frauds upon, etc.,

increased .

1315

fines, fees, charges, etc. , to be covered into

the Treasury..

1315

payments to collectors, etc. , on account of

fees, to be from appropriations for collecting . restriction on deposit of receipts from, in national banks removed..

1315, 1290

Customs Tariffs , International Bureau for Publication of,

appropriation for annual contribution ... 290, 920

Cutler, John D. ,

pension increased ..

1935

Cutler, Susan H. (widow) ,

pension.

1483

Cutters, Man-of- War's, etc. ,

loan of, one for every 25 cadets at certain

military schools ; conditions ...

620

Cypress Bayou, Tex. and La.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1092

D.

Dabney, Virginius, deficiency appropriation for expenses...... 652

Dachrodt, Jacob,

pension increased .

1608

Dagenfield, Mary (widow), pension increased ..

1939

Dailey, George M., pension increased .

2014

Dailey, Rachel A. (widow),

pension...

1474

Dailey, Samuel,

pension increased .

2195

Dailey, Thomas,

pension increased ......

2085

Dairy Industry,

appropriation for experiments developing,

in Southern States.....

674

Dairy Products,

appropriation for investigation, etc. , of, for

export.....

674, 1260

for chemical examination, etc. , of.... 686, 1272

Dakin, Charles W.,

payment to heirs of..

2815

Dakota County, Minn.,

allotment to certain Sioux Indians, to be

sold to Minnesota; proceeds ....

78

Dale County, Ala. ,

dam authorized across Choctawhatchee

River in...

102

Dalecarlia Reservoir, D. C.,

appropriation for dredging , improving, etc. 1135

Daley, John W.,

pension increased ..

1947

3374

INDEX.

Dallas, Tex., limit of cost increased, public building. appropriation for..
Dallman, Thomas G., pension increased..
Dalny, Manchuria, classification and salary of consul .....
Dalton, Ga. ,

Page. 774 789
2563
99

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for ..

792, 1297

Daly, James C.,

pension increased .

2290

Daly, Richard C.,

pension increased ..

1792

Dalzell, John K. ,

pension increased .

1998

Damm, Henry, pension increased..
Dams,

2458

general regulations for constructing for

power, etc ...

386

approval of plans, etc. , by Chief of En-

gineers and Secretary of War, re-

quired ....

386

maintenance of locks, sluices, etc....

386

land, etc., for lock for navigation....... 386

liability for flowage damages...

386

forfeiture for noncompliance with re-

quirements ...

386

penalties for violations; removal, etc.. 386

time for construction : ..

387

right to amend, etc. , reserved ..

387

authorized by riparian owners, Coosa

River, Ala. , near Lock 2 ...

183

construction of, authorized across Bear

River, Tishomingo County, Miss.. 130, 929

Choctawhatchee River, Dale County,

Ala ...

102

Coosa River, at Lock and Dam No. 12 . 1288

Crow Wing River, Morrison and Cass

counties, Minn .

296

Flint River, at Porter Shoals, Ga.

878

Goose Creek, S. C ......

265

Mississippi River, Bemidji , Minn

210

Clearwater, Minn ..

266

Monticello, Minn .

264

Morrison County, Minn...

209

Stearns and Sherburne counties, Minn . 537

Missouri River, Mont..

111, 912

Niobrara River, Nebr ..

297

Pea River, near Elba, Ala .

18

Pend d'Oreille River, Big Falls , Wash.. 205

Stevens County, Wash.

931

Red Lake River, Minn .

65

Rock River, near Grand Detour, Ill

14

Lyndon, Ill .

933

Rock Island County, Ill ..

155

Saint Joseph River, near Berrien Springs,

Mich ..

102

Mottville, Mich .

1254

Savannah River, at Andersonville

Shoals ...

1240

above Augusta, Ga..

1000

Calhoun Falls..

1240

Cherokee Shoals..

1255

Gregg Shoals..

876

Hattons Ford .

1240

McDaniel Shoals .

1238

Middleton Shoals .

1239

Trotters Shoals..

1241

Turner Shoals .

1239

Tennessee River. at Muscle Shoals , Ala. 52

White River, Ark....

628

Dams-Continued .

Page.

location, etc., modified of, across Missis-

sippi River, in Morrison County,

Minn

1219

time extended for, across Mississippi River,

at Clearwater, Minn..

1235

Monticello, Minn ..

1235

Rock Island Rapids.

876

Sauk Rapids, Minn ..

1058

Wright and Sherburne counties, Minn . 84

Missouri River, Mont .......

1415

provisions for electric-power companies,

Indian Territory ..

146

Dancy, George L.,

pension..

2747

Danforth, George L.,

pension increased .

2711

Daniel, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased...

2369

Danieldson, August,

pension increased.

1888

Daniels, Aaron,

pension increased .

2263

Daniels, Abbie J. (daughter), pension..
Daniels, Clara E. (widow), pension increased ...
Daniels, Joseph, pension increased
Daniels, Myra R. (widow), pension increased

2230 .: 2771
2430 1925

Daniels, Thomas W.,

pension increased

2575

Danielson, C. J.,

payment to..

2661

Danley, Andrew D.,

pension increased .

1957

Danner, Charles E. , and Company,

refund of license to...

2412

Danville, Ill.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ....

748, 1355

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home...

.... 34, 1383

Danville, Ky.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for......

792, 1297

Danville, Va.,

terms of court at..

547

D'Arbonne River,

bridge_authorized across, at Farmerville,

La ..

1254

Darby, George W., pension increased .

1777-

Darcy, Mary E. (mother) ,

pension..

2005

Durling, Delphine (widow) ,

pension increased .

2420

Darling, James M.,

granted honorable discharge.......

2305

Darling, La Forrest C.,

pension increased ..

1656

Dauber, K. H.,

payment to..

2661

Doughenbaugh, Jonathan,

pension increased ..

1670

Daughenbaugh, Samuel M.,

pension increased ..

2228

Daugherty, Lewis L.,

pension increased ..

1571

Daughters of the American Revolution, may erect fountain at Paducah, Ky ............. 878

punishment for unauthorized wearing insignia of, in District of Columbia.... 62

INDEX .

3375

Dauphin Island, Ala. ,

Page.

bridge authorized across Mobile Bay, be-

tween Cedar Point and .

10

Davenport, Abram W.,

pension increased .

1726

Davenport, Iowa,

Davis, Leuis F., pension increased ..
Davis, Lucretia (widow), pension increased .
Davis, Marcus, pension increased

Page. 2172
2457
2601

acquiring site for public building at, au-

Davis, Matthew J.,

thorized ..

782 payment to....

2313

appropriation for.

794 Davis, Moses,

Davenport, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased .

2059

pension increased

1472 Davis, Moses B.,

Davenport, Mary L. (widow),

pension increased .

1734

pension increased .

1799 Davis, Newton S.,

Davenport Water Power Company,

pension increased .

2089

time extended for dam, etc. , Mississippi

Davis, Philena (widow),

River, at Rock Island Rapids

876 pension increased .

1503

Davey, Henry, pension increased .

Davis, Philo E., 1899 pension increased .

*2108

David, Ferdinand, pension increased

Davis, Richard E.,

2331 pension increased .

1864

Davidson County, Tenn.,

Davis, Samuel B.,

may build two bridges across Cumberland

pension increased

2508

River, at Nashville .

135 Davis, Samuel H.,

time extended ...

927 pension increased

2142

Davidson, David L., pension increased .

Davis, Samuel L., 1528 pension increased

2537

Davidson, Eliza (widow), pension increased ..

Davis, Samuel S., 1898 may dam north and south branches of Rock

Davidson, James M., pension increased .

River, Ill ...

.155

2556 Davis, Seth,

Davidson, Lucinda (widow), pension increased .
Davies, Thomas J., pension increased .
Davis, Aaron,
pension... Davis, Barlow,
pension increased .

honorable discharge granted.......... 2221, 2811

2553 Davis, Stephen M.,

pension increased

1657

1663 Davis, Susan E. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2797

2749 Davis, Temperance (widow),

pension increased

2656

2301 Davis, Theodore T. ,

Davis, Christopher C.,

pension increased

2192

pension increased .

2137 Davis, Thomas B.,

Sal-

Davis, David,

pension..

1698

pension increased .

1727 Davis, Thomas C.,

Davis, Dennis A. ,

pension increased

2421

pension increased

1492 Davis, Thomas J.,

Davis, Elizabeth (widov), pension increased .
Davis, Franklin H., pension increased .
Davis, Henry C., pension increased .
Davis, Henry H., pension increased .
Davis, Hezekiah, military record corrected payment to widow of...
Davis, Hiram N.,

1448 2758 2641 2488 2820 2821

pension increased Davis, William , Illinois Volunteers,
pension increased .
Davis, William , Oregon Volunteers, pension increased ..
Davis, Willian , War with Mexico, pension increased .
Davis, William P., pension increased .
Davison, James H., pension increased .

2042 1751 2280 2783 1643 2469

deficiency appropriation for maple sugar

Davy, Michael, alias James Byron,

bounty..

1375 pension increased .

1992

Davis, James, pension increased
Davis, James H., military record corrected ..
Davis, James N. , pension increased ..
Davis, John G., pension increased

2352 2466 2139 1726

Dawes, John W., pension increased ..
Dawson, Sarah A. (widow), pension increased .
Dawson, Yukon Territory, classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire .

2170 2200
99 294, 924

Davis, John W.,

Day, Enos,

pension increased .

1683 pension increased .

1912

Davis, Joseph, pension increased .

Day, Sarah Ann (widow),

1.504 pension increased .

2103

Davis, Julius A. ,

Dayhuff , Martin,

pension increased .

2115 pension increased .

1996

Davis, Lewellen T.,

Dayton, James,

pension increased .

1826 pension increased .

1865

3376

INDEX.

Dayton, Ohio,

Page.

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home; additions .. terms of court at

745, 1351 1294

De Bruler, William H.,

pension increased .

2618

De Burger, Marquis M.,

pension increased .

1806

De Castro, Francis H.,

pension increased .

2451

De Fontes, Joseph, deficiency appropriation for............ ... 663, 1398

De Graff, Henry,

pension increased .

1989

De Haven, Samuel,

pension increased .

2612

De Laittre, Lewis,

pension increased .

1939

De Noyer, Frank,

pension increased

2727

De Planque, Frederick,

pension increased .

2500

De Puy, John M.,

pension increased ..

1858

De Veaux, Florence Greeley (widow),

pension...

1505

De Witt, Orlean,

pension increased .

1610

Dead-Letter Division, Post-Office Department,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc ...

439, 984

Deadwood, S. Dak., appropriation for assay office at . for public building. limit of cost increased , public building

415, 962 698, 789
773

Deal, Harvey,

pension increased .

1978

Dean, Chauncey P. ,

pension increased .

1570

Dean, George C.,

pension increased .

2296

Dean, Henry E.,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 656

Dean, Samuel C.,

pension increased ..

2101

Dean, William,

pension increased ..

2548

Dearborn, Richard,

pension increased .

1543

Deardour , John,

pension increased .

1724

Dearey, James,

pension increased .

2230

Deuter, Levi, pension increased .
Decatur, Ill., appropriation for public building, limit of cost increased , public building
Dechon, Louis, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to heirs of..

2616
1297 773
374

Deckard, Jacob R. ,

pension increased

2018

Decker, Benjamin H.,

pension.....

1678

Decker, David,

pension increased.

2715

Decker, John L.,

pension increased..

1764

Decker, William A.,

pension increased..

2802

Deckers Creek, W. Va., preliminary examination of, to be made... 1118

Decorah, Iowa,

Page.

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

782

appropriation for.

794

Decorations, etc.,

acceptance permitted Rear Admiral B. H.

McCalla from Emperor of Germany . 2825

Professor Simon Newcomb ....

1713

Dedrick, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2295

Deeds, etc.,

acknowledgment of, affecting lands in District or Territories, by notaries, Guam, Samoa, or Canal Zone ...... 552

Deems, Isaac,

pension increased...

1701

Deems, Samuel,

pension increased ..

1978

Deep Bay, N. C., preliminary examination to be made of

waterway to Swan Quarter Bay from . 1116 Deer Island, Boston Harbor, Mass.,

purchase of land on, for fortification pur-

poses; conditions...

457

damages from firing guns to be reported to

Congress

458

Defacing, etc., Property, D. C.,

penalty for wilfully, increased ..

126

Defective Persons, Mentally or Physically,

admission of alien, excluded ...

899

Defending Suits in Claims,

appropriation for expenses,.

751, 1358

deficiency appropriation for... 40, 656, 1389, 1403

Deficiencies Appropriations Bill, 1906, conferees authorized to insert in, appro-

priations for omnibus public build-

ings, and railroad rates, bills ....

2834

Deficiency Appropriations (see also Appropriations) ,

for Department of State ... 27, 118, 634, 885, 1371

diplomatic and consular service ..

27.

634, 885, 1372

for Treasury Department .

27,

119, 635, 842, 885, 1372

collecting customs revenue..... 28, 636, 1401

Philippine tariff, etc. , prior to March

8, 1902, legalized ...

636

Engraving and Printing Bureau .

637

internal revenue .

29,637, 1375

quarantine stations ..

29

Revenue-Cutter Service ..

30, 638

public buildings...

30, 638, 1375

mints and assay offices..

31, 639, 1376

government in the Territories .

639

for District of Columbia... 31, 119, 639, 886, 1376 for Interstate Commerce Commission .. 31, 119

for War Department .

32, 120, 644, 843, 1380

California earthquake sufferers ..

644

Texas claim..

645

Army.....

32, 645, 843, 1381

replacing stores, San Francisco earth-

quake

645

Isthmian Canal .

33

Volunteer Soldiers' Home..

34, 1382

State, War, and Navy Department build-

ing..

35

for Navy Department..

35, 646, 885, 1383

Navy..

35, 646, 885, 1384

for Interior Department.

36,

120, 653 , 842, 885, 1387

public lands..

654

Geological Survey .

37,654

Indian department..

38, 654, 1389

pensions .....

39, 1389

INDEX .

3377

Deficiency Appropriations-Continued.

Page.

for Department of Justice.. judicial....

40, 656, 1389 657

United States courts..

40, 657, 1390

for Post-Office Department..

42, 657, 1391

postal service...

42, 658, 1391

for Department of Agriculture.. 42, 658, 841 , 1392 for Department of Commerce and Labor... 42 ,

659, 843, 1392

Coast and Geodetic Survey..

42, 1393

Light-House Establishment . light-houses, etc.

42 , 1393 659

for legislative

43, 660, 1394

for Senate...

43, 660, 1394

for House of Representatives... 43, 120, 661 , 1396

for public printing and binding..... 44, 663, 1398

for Government Printing Office..

120

for the Vice-President ..

1371

for Civil Service Commission.

1371

for Secretary of the President .

1393

for Library of Congress...

1399

for judgments, Court of Claims .

44, 664, 1399

Indian depredation claims.

44, 664, 1400

for paying awards, Spanish Treaty Claims

Commission ....

45, 665, 1400

for paying claims certified by accounting

officers....

45, 665, 668, 1400

for executive; committee on Department

methods..

663

for judgments, United States courts . for United States court for China...

663, 1399 669

for assistant custodians and janitors, public

buildings ..

832

for stamped envelopes and wrappers .

833

expenditures, etc., in excess of appropri-

ations forbidden...

49

acceptance of voluntary service, forbidden. 49

employing personal service in excess of appropriations forbidden; emergencies . 49
allotments of contingent expenses, etc. , to

prevent deficiencies...

49

modifications not allowed ; exceptions .. 49

not applicable to Congress...

49

written modification required ; report to

Congress .....

49

punishment for violations.

49

eight-hour law not applicable to unskilled alien laborers, Isthmian Canal ...... 669

Defoe, John M.,

pension increased ..

2369

Dehlendorf, Caroline (widow),

pension increased .

1780

Deisch, Charles F.,

granted honorable discharge....

1959

Dekalb, Ill.,

appropriation for public building...............

698

Del Gindice, Francesco,

pension increased ..

1646

Del Rio, Tex.,

terms of court..

226

Delaney, John,

pension increased .

2589

Delaney, Robert H.,

pension increased .

2520

Delany, Edward,

pension increased ..

1997

Delany, William,

pension increased ......

1896

Delaware,

agreement with New Jersey as to jurisdic-

tion over part of Delaware River,

ratified ..

861

rights of United States not impaired ..

861

Delaware, Ambrose S.,
pension increased .. Delaware Bay,

Page. 2299

appropriation for light and fog signal sta-

tion, new breakwater...

711

'commission to report on waterway from

Chesapeake Bay to..

835

preliminary examination to be made for canal to Rehoboth Bay, Del .................... 1112

Delaware Bay Harbor of Refuge,

limit of cost increased for fight and fog sig-

nal on breakwater...

322

Delaware Breakwater Quarantine Station,

appropriation for fence....

1307

Delaware, Ohio,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

783

appropriation ,for.

795

Delaware River, Pa. and N. J., . appropriation for lighting..
Delaware River,

713, 1320

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts for maintenance, etc.... 738, 1080

for improvement of Perriwig Bar..

1080

agreement between New Jersey and Dela-

ware as to jurisdiction over part of,

ratified ....

861

rights of United States not impaired .

861

bridge authorized across, near Trenton,

N. J.......

64

deficiency appropriation for.

659

light and fog- signal station, Miah Maul

Shoal..

322

deficiency appropriation for.

659

appropriation for.

1317

Joe Flogger Shoal..

322

deficiency appropriation for.

659

range lights at Bellevue Range.

322

deficiency appropriation for

659

Delegates from Territories,

appropriation for compensation and mile-

age . clerk hire

392, 938 396, 942

deficiency appropriation for compensa-

tion....

661, 1396

compensation established .

994

provision for electing, in Alaska.

169

for election of Hawaii modified .

550

Delinquent Children, D. C., jurisdiction of juvenile court over.
Delisle, Joseph, pension increased...

74 2038

Delong, Henry,

pension increased .

2196

Delong, Richard L.,

pension increased .

1956

Demarest, Charles M.,

refund to estate of..

1940

Demers, Eugene,

pension increased ..

2304

Demopolis, Ala. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

782

appropriation for.

794

Denatured Alcohol Act,

appropriation for expenses under ....... 218, 957

withdrawal from bond, tax free, for indus-

trial uses

217

special denaturating bonded warehouses

to be designated...

217

regulation of material, conditions, etc.

217

bonds, returns, etc. , required ; inspection 217

3378

INDEX.

Denatured Alcohol Act-Continued . prohibitions: withdrawing from bond and preventing supervision.. using for beverages or liquid medicines . selling such beverages, etc... violating provisions of act.. recovering, etc. , alcohol from denatured
spirits... using, selling, etc. , recovered spirits punishment for violations..
recovery permitted for manufacturing processes ...
additional employees, instruments, etc., authorized..

Page.
217 217 217 217
217 217 217
217
218

appointments for two years not subject to

civil-service conditions....

218

appropriation for expenses...

218

report to Congress required ; scope..

218

withdrawal of denatured domestic alcohol

for chemical manufacture changing

substance

1250

of rum for denaturing ..

1250

central denaturing bonded warehouses

authorized...

1250

transfers of alcohol to, etc ..

1250

withdrawal for denaturing by pipe line,

tanks, tank cars, etc....

1250

from bonded warehouses to central de-

naturing plants...

1250

provisions for small distilleries for denatur-

ation only....

1250

in effect September 1 , 1907 .

1251

Denison, Tex.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

781

appropriation for..

794, 1297

Denmark,

appropriation for minister to...

286, 917

for secretary of legation...

287, 917

deficiency appropriation for Samoan claims 635

extradition treaty with, extended to island

possessions, and bribery added

2898

parcels post convention with ...

2965

Dennis, Isaac C.,

pension increased .

1618

Denny, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

2614

Denson, Lewis,

pension increased .

2028

Dental Surgeons, Army, appropriation for. detail to Military Academy .

245, 1163 1163

Dentists, D. C. ,

use of drugs, etc. , by, restricted .......

175

Denver, Colo. ,

appropriation for mint at.

414, 960

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, mint.

30

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

732

appropriation for.

794

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

774

appropriation for.

790

limit of cost increased , mint at .

784

old building to be sold; use of proceeds . 784

minor coins to be coined at mint ; distribu-

tion..

132

plans, etc., for new building to be sub-

mitted ..

1297

transfer of appropriation for wages, mint ,

to clerks, etc...

842

Department Methods, Committee on,

deficiency appropriation for salaries .

663

Department of Agriculture,

Page.

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant,

clerks, etc .....

670, 1256

for laborers, charwomen, etc.

670, 1256

for Weather Bureau .

671, 1257

for Bureau of Animal Industry.

672, 1258

meat and meat animal inspection for

interstate transportation .

674, 1260

for Bureau of Plant Industry..

679, 1265

experimental gardens and grounds. 680, 1266

Arlington experimental farm ..

680, 1266

tea culture, sugar, etc. , investiga-

tions..

681, 1267

roads in Department grounds..

681

inspecting and grading grain for ex-

port, etc....

681, 1267

seed distribution..

682, 1267

purchase and test of valuable foreign

seeds, etc....

682, 1268

fund from sale of products ..

684

permanent improvements; reports... 1270

deposit of receipts; payments to States

and Territories ...

1270

restriction on further reserves .

1271

for Bureau of Chemistry .

685, 1271

examination and detention of unwhole-

some, etc., food , drugs, etc. , im-

ported ...

686

pure food inspection ..

686, 1272

report on employment of State offi-

cials, etc.

1272

for Bureau of Soils..

687, 1272

for Bureau of Entomology.

688, 1273

for Bureau of Biological Survey .

688, 1274

report on utility of Bureau...

1274

for Division of Accounts and Disburse-

ments....

689, 1274

for Division of Publications .

689, 1274

farmers' bulletins .

690

for Bureau of Statistics

690, 1276

crop reports...... extending foreign markets

691, 1276 691, 1276

for library.

691 , 1277

card index of agricultural literature 692, 1277

for contingent expenses....

692, 1277

for Office of Experiment Stations . 692, 1278

reports, etc. , on farmers' institutes . 693, 1279

nutrition investigations.....

694, 1279

irrigation and drainage investiga-

tions ..

694, 1279

for Public Roads Office .

694, 1279

discretion in use of lump funds ; maxi-

mum salaries, etc ....

695, 1280

annual statement of changes, etc .. 695, 1280.

promotion of laborers transferred to

classified service ..

695

for emergencies, cotton boll weevil,

etc....

695, 1280

gypsy and brown-tail moths .

696, 1280

cattle-fever ticks..

696, 1281

buffalo range, Wichita Game Preserve . 696 Dismal River Forest Reserve, Nebr... 696

for surveys, etc. , Appalachian and White

Mountain watersheds ...

1281

report on setting apart as forest re-

serves ...

1281

sale of prints and lantern slides from
negatives of Department ; proceeds . 696, 1281

transfer of table sirup station , Way-

cross, to Georgia; conditions ....

696

allotment of increased annual appro-

priations for experiment stations.... 696

disposal of worthless papers, etc ..

1281

purchase of mileage books..

1281

INDEX.

3379

Department of Agriculture-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for agricultural colleges

1281

method of payment; courses for teach-

ers ..

1282

additional statements to be made by

Secretary..

1282

for construction of buildings .

758, 1364

for printing and binding.

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for Animal In-

dustry Bureau ..

42, 48, 669, 1403

for grass and forage plant investigations .. 48

for purchase, etc. , of seeds..

48, 667

for Weather Bureau..

48, 667

for contingent expenses..

658, 667

for library.

659

for Forest Service .

667, 1403

for entomological investigations ..

667

for collecting statistics .. for expenses under pure-food act.

667, 1403 841

for Secretary..

1392

for Plant Industry Bureau.

1403

beet-sugar industry report ordered to be

printed annually.

838

Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for solicitor of the..

441 , 986

for Secretary, Assistant, clerks, etc. 441 , 987

for investigation of trade relations

abroad .

442, 987

cotton market ..

442

for Bureau of Corporations , salaries .. 442, 987

special attorneys, etc ..

442, 987

for Bureau of Manufactures

442, 987

collating foreign tariffs ..

988

for Bureau of Labor, salaries

442, 988

miscellaneous expenses .

443, 988

for Light-House Board..

443, 988

for Census Office, salaries .

443, 988

collecting statistics, etc.

443,989

rent, contingent expenses, etc

444, 989

tabulating returns ..

444, 989

for Bureau of Statistics, salaries .

444, 989

for collecting statistics..

444, 989

for Steamboat - Inspection Service . for Bureau of Navigation...

444, 989 445, 990

for Immigration Bureau..

445

for· Immigration and Naturalization Bureau... 990

for Bureau of Standards, salaries .

445, 990

equipment ....

445 , 991

member, International Committee of

Weights and Measures..

446, 991

delegate, International Committee of

Electrical Units ....

446, 991

for contingent expenses. for rent....

446, 991 446, 991

for site and building for .
repealed ..... for civil expenses under . for immigrant stations .
Ellis Island ...

700 840 710, 1317 710 1317

for light-houses, etc for Light-House Establishment for Coast and Geodetic Survey . for Fisheries Bureau..

710, 1317 712, 1319 713, 1321 717, 1324

for Alaska scal fisheries .

721. 1329

for enforcing Chinese exclusion for Henry John Wright .
for McKay Steamship Line for Oscar Klocker ...

722, 1329 722 722 722

for expenses, shipping commissioners . 722, 1330

for printing and binding.

760, 1368

for salaries, naturalization division , Im-

migration Bureau

1329

information division ; additional as-

sistants ...

1329

Department of Commerce and Labor-Con. Page.

appropriation for expenses, restricting im-

migration of certain aliens ..

1330

for woman and child workers ' investiga-

tion .

1330

for immigrant station , Charleston, S. C .. 1415

Galveston , Tex ...

1412

New Orleans , La..

1409

deficiency appropriation for Bureau of

Manufactures, assistant chief

42

for Alaska seal fisheries .....

42, 1393

for shipping commissioners ; rent .

42

for Coast and Geodetic Survey

42, 1393

for Light-House Establishment .... 42, 48, 1405

for Court of Claims judgments un-

der .

44, 664, 1400

for Fish Commission ..

48, 659

for special agents....

659

for light-houses, beacons, and fog sig-

nals ..

659, 842, 1393

for Monongahela River, post lights...... 660

for William John Wright and others,

moiety of fines ...

660

for Mexican-American Steamship Com-

pany..

660

for Cunard Steamship Company.

660

for immigration station, Ellis Island ,

N. Y ..

842

for Secretary.

1392

for contingent expenses..

1392

for reimbursing naval officers

1392

for Henry Weber...

1393

for Canadian Pacific Railway Company . 1393

for judgments of United States courts

under

1399

for Standards Bureau .

1403

for Fisheries Bureau..

1403

for Chinese exclusion .

1403

Immigration Bureau changed to Bureau of

Immigration and Naturalization.... 596

to have charge of naturalization matters . 596

additional officers, employees, etc. , to be

provided ...

1 596

Industrial Commission files, to be trans-

ferred to...

1425

names of heads of families in First Census,

to be published ...

722

officials to enforce regulations of salmon ,

etc. , fisheries, Alaska ..

480

Department of Justice, appropriation for Attorney-General , As-

sistants, Solicitor-General, clerks,

etc.

440, 985

for division of accounts ...

986

transfer of clerks, Insular Affairs .

441

for contingent expenses..

441, 986

for official transportation..

441, 986

for rent....

441, 986

for Solicitor of the Treasury, clerks , etc. 441 , 986

for Solicitor of the Department of Com-

merce and Labor....

441, 986

for jail, District of Columbia .

508

for building for

700

repealed....

840

for civil expenses under .

750, 1357

for additional rent, furniture, and ex-

penses ....

1357

for court-house, Washington , D. C .. 750, 1357

for Court of Claims, building..

750

for construction of penitentiaries . 750, 1357

for Reform School, D. C. , new build-

ings ..

751 , 1358

for Alaska, court-houses and jails .

751

for court-house and jail, Nome , Alaska .. 1358

for defending suits in claims .

751, 1358

3380

INDEX.

Department of Justice-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for prosecution of crimes . 752, 1358

for defense, Indian depredation

claims ..

752, 1358

for punishing violations of intercourse

acts ...

752, 1358

for traveling and emergency expenses 752, 1359

for care of buildings ..

752, 1359

for Alaska expenses .

752, 1359

for Spanish Treaty Claims Commission,

expenses ..

752, 1359

for enforcing antitrust laws .

752, 1359

for Volume 25, Opinions of the Attorney-

General..

753

for United States courts .

753, 1360

for Reform School, D. C.

758, 1364

for printing and binding.

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for miscellaneous

expenditures..

40

for law books ..

40

for Reform School , D. C.; plans for new

building..

40

repairs, etc. for court-house, D. C. for Court of Claims .. for Winchester Kelso .

40, 656 40
40
40

for defense, Indian depredation claims .. 40, 48

for United States courts

40,

48, 657, 667, 669, 1390, 1403, 1405

for contingent expenses..

656

for defending suits in claims

40,

656, 1389, 1403

for Henry E. Dean...

656

for jail , Alaska....

656

for Hugh T. Taggart..

656

for Indian Territory courts .

657

for judge New York southern district ... 657

for judgments of United States courts,

under...

663, 1399

for Court of Claims judgments under . 664, 1400

for court for China

669

for Attorney-General .

1389

for militia stores to marshal of Idaho ... 1389

for Fernando M. Vidal...

1390

for Alaska expenses..

1390

for prosecuting Indians in Arizona..

1403

extra copies of laws and statutes for dis-

tribution by, ordered...

1426

officers of, when specifically directed, may

conduct cases in any district ...

816

Department of State,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistants,

clerks, etc ..

402, 948

limitation on personal services . for emergency clerical services .
for stationery, furniture, etc .. for books, maps, etc. , for library.
for lithographer, etc. for contingent expenses. for rent..
for solicitor for the..

402 948 402, 948 102, 949 402, 949 402, 949 949 440, 985

for diplomatic and consular service ... 286, 916

for printing in the..

289, 919

for building for .

700

repealed ..

840

for site and building for Bureau of the

American Republics ..

758

for printing and binding .

760, 1366

for court for China..

1357

for American National Red Cross Society. 1357

for irrigation project, convention with

Mexico ...

1357

deficiency appropriation for diplomatic and

consular service ..

27 ,

48, 634, 667, 1372, 1403, 1405

Department of State-Continued.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for international conference of American States .... 118

for international peace conference .

118

for Red Cross conference ....

118

for paying Samoan claims, Germany.. Denmark. France ..

for International Institute of Agriculture .

for Secretary:

1371

for additional clerks .

1371

for international maritime exposition.... 1371

for John Bassett Moore .....

1372

consular service reorganization ..

99

evidences of citizenship, etc. , to be filed in . 1229

to deliver certain early archives to North .

Carolina...

822

Departments (see Executive Departments) .
Departments, Executive, compensation of heads of, established ..... 993

Dependent Children, D. C.,

jurisdiction of juvenile court over..

74

Deportation ofAliens,

illegally entering; expenses, etc .....

904

penalty for failure of owner of vessel to

return, etc ....

904

to be to port from which originally em-

barked ...

908

Depositing Public Moneys,

appropriation for expenses, land offices. 724, 1332

deficiency appropriation for expenses, land

offices ..

885

Depositories of Public Documents, Designated, distribution of documents to .
land-grant colleges constituted .
Deposits, Army Enlisted Men,
of savings, to be kept as special deposit fund ..

1014 1014
246

Depth of Tidal Waters, meaning of, in river and harbor legislation .
Deputy Collectors of Customs, and other customs officers to be appointed
by Secretary of the Treasury. duties; bond, etc .. Derelicts, etc.,

1110
880 880

appropriation for revenue cutter for re-

moval of..

703, 1309

vessel for removal of, under Revenue-

Cutter Service, authorized

190

Derr, Obadiah,

pension increased ..

2147

Derry, Samuel,

pension increased .

1826

Des Moines, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized

at

777

appropriation for .

791, 1297

acceptance of land adjoining public build-

ing..

1237

Descanum, or Albert, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

378

Deseret News, Salt Lake City, Utah, deficiency appropriation for advertising... 645

Desert-Land Entries,

allowance to settlers on lands within irri-

gation projects ...................

520

Desert Lands,

appropriation for examinations of...... 724, 1332 purchase by Colorado of, in former South-
ern Ute Reservation , authorized .... 1056

time extended for final proof, entries in

Benton County, Wash..

1057

Desertion of Wife, D. C.,

punishment for willful ..

86

INDEX .

3381

Deskines, Rush, pension increased .
Deters, W. H., payment to.
Detour, Mich.,

Page. 2293
2661

appropriation for light station; purchase of

flash lens.....

1318

Detroit, Mich.,

appropriation for marine-postal service . 472, 1210 enlargement of public building at , author-

ized ... appropriation for.

774 790, 1297

Detroit River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of ; Detroit

to Lake Erie ..

737

for improvement of, and maintenance ;

contracts

738, 1098

for improvement of, plan " B ; " contracts . 1098

Devereux, Arthur F.,

pension increased .

1498

Devereux, Clara A. R. (widow),

pension increased ..

2217

Devils Lake Indian Reservation, N. Dak.,

cancellation of patents to certain Indians

of, authorized..

361

Devils Lake, N. Dak.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

780

appropriation for... terms of court at....

793, 1297 609, 610

Devils Lake, N. Dak. , Sioux Indians of,

appropriation for additional payment for

ceded lands ...

360

Devils Tower National Monument, Wyo .,

proclamation setting aside ..

3236

Devlin, James,

granted honorable discharge ..

2218

Devon, W. Va. ,

bridge authorized across Tug Fork of Big

Sandy River at..

883

Devor, James

pension increased......

2118

Devore, Elijah, pension increased ..
Dew, Famous, Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed .
Dewees, Balos C., pension increased..
Dewey County, S. Dak. ,
bridge authorized across Missouri River, between Walworth County and .....
Dewey, Robert J., pension increased ..

2800 345 1812
95 2397

Dewhurst, Joseph, pension increased .
Dewier, Ann (widow) , pension.,
Dezarn, Hezekiah,
return from President requested of bill to pension..
Diamond Mountain Forest Reserve, Cal., proclamation establishing
enlarging

2584 1994
2839 3113 3241

Dick, J. Henry, may bring suit in Court of Claims for Cher-

okees, to determine validity of laws

restricting alienation, etc ..

1028

Dick, James M.,

pension increased ..

2772

Dick, Lewis, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to....

356

Dick, Robert,

pension increased...

1905

Dickens , Sarah Ellen (widow),
pension.... Dickens, Sarah J. (widow),
pension increased . Dickerson, Stephen,
pension increased .. Dickey, John,
pension increased.
Dickey, Osbert D. , pension increased .
Dickey, William G., pension increased .

Page. 1988 1523 1576 2229 2188 2636

Dickey, William N. , pension..
Dickhof , Wilhelm, pension increased .
Dickinson, James K. , pension increased .
Dickinson, Joseph B., pension increased .
Dickinson, Orville, pension increased ..
Dickson, Fred, payment to .
Dickson, Joseph, pension increased ..
Dievs, Hugh L., pension increased ..
Diddock, Margaret La Flesche, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Dieckgraefe, Louis,
pension Diedrich, Paul,
pension increased ..
Diefenbach, Carrie (widow), pension increased..
Diehl, Daniel D., pension increased .
Diehl, Milton,
pension. Dieter, Philip,
pension.. Dietz, John,
pension increased .... Digest ofInternational Law,
deficiency appropriation for reimbursing John Bassett Moore.
Digest ofthe Rules, House of Representatives, appropriation for preparing..
Digest of United States Customs Laws and Decisions,
appropriation for purchase of manuscript and preparing..
Digests ofLaws, appropriation for preparing, for Congress, etc ..
Dightman, George W., pension increased ..
Dike, R. W., Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ...
Dilg, Fred, pension increased .
Dill, Elizabeth (widow). pension increased ..

2144 1995 2191 1985 2601 2152 1952 2537 356 1444 2356 2603 1612 2003 2484 2052
1372 392
840
753 1554 365 1674 1583

Dill, Robert R.,

pension increased ..

2469

Dilts, Daniel,

pension increased ..

1690

Diocese of Washington, D. C. , Convention of,

powers and authority of corporation

amended..

875

Diphtheria, D. C. ,

provisions to prevent spread of..

889

VOL XXXIV, PT 350

3382

INDEX.

Diplomatic and Consular Service,

Page.

appropriation for diplomatic service .... 286, 916

for salaries, ambassadors and ministers . 286, 916

for agent, etc. , Cairo ..

287, 917

officials not to receive other salary . 287, 917

for chargés d'affaires ad interim...... 287 , 917

for salaries, secretaries of embassies and

legations ...

287, 917

for instruction and transit pay.

288, 918

for transportation of diplomatic and con-

sular officers ; allowance, etc..

288

for clerks at embassies and legations ; new

appointees to be citizens..

288, 918

for interpreters to embassies and lega-

tions ...

288, 918

for student interpreters, China and

Japan..

288, 918

for clerks, Great Britain .

289, 919

for contingent expenses, missions ...... 289, 919

dispatch agents ..

289, 919

printing in Department of State .... 289, 919

foss by exchange..

289, 919

for steam launch, Constantinople .

289, 919

for ground rent , Tokyo, Japan........

289, 919

for rebuilding consular building, Tahiti . 289

for Cape Spartel Light, Tangier .

289, 919

for bringing home criminals..

289, 919

for life-saving testimonials .

290, 919

for expenses, neutrality act.

290, 919

for unforeseen emergencies..

290, 920

for heirs of officers dying abroad .

290, 920

for bringing home remains of officers .. 290, 920

for Bureau of Weights and Measures .. 290, 920

for Bureau of Customs Tariffs .

290, 920

for Mexican Boundary Commission 291 , 920

for Bureau , Repression of Slave Trade . 291 , 920

for Prison Commission ...

291 , 921

for Geodetic Association .

291, 921

for repairs to legations and consulates .. 291 , 921
for Bureau of American Republics .... 291 , 921 for Permanent Court of Arbitration 291 , 921

for International Railway Congress ... 292, 921

for International Sanitary Bureau . 292, 921 for reports Joint High Commission 1898 .. 292

for Alaska-Canada boundary line........... 292, 922

for Canada boundary under treaty of

1842 ..

292, 923

for Saint John River Commission....

292

estimate for consular buildings,

China, Korea, and Japan .....

292

for purchase of legation premises, Con-

stantinople, Turkey ....

293

for transportation of diplomatic and con-

sular officers.....

922

for International Seismological Associa- .

tion ...

922

for Second International Peace Confer-

ence ....

922

for International Fishery Congress .

922

for United States court for China..

922

for consular service ....

293, 923

for salaries , consuls-general, consuls, and

consular inspectors .

293, 923

for consul-general , Boma, Kongo State ....
for consul, Calgary, Canada . for expenses, consular inspectors for consular clerks ...
pay increased ... for clerks at consulates .
allowance increased .

Free 293, 923 293, 923 293, 923 293, 923 923 293, 923 293

for interpreters , etc. , at consulates .. for marshals, consular courts for consular prisons ...

294, 924 294, 925
294, 925

Diplomatic and Consular Service-Cont'd . Page.

appropriation for relief and protection of

American seamen

295, 925

for foreign hospitals, Cape Town and

Panama .

295, 925

for Seamen's Institute, Kobe .

295, 925

for rewriting consular regulations .

925

for contingent expenses, consulates ... 295, 926

loss by exchange. for cipher code..

295, 926 926

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses , missions ..

27, 48, 635, 1403

for bringing home criminals..

27

for relief and protection of American sea-

men....

27, 667, 1405

for contingent expenses, consulates ...

27,

635, 667, 1403

for emergencies .

27

not to be used for expenses in District

of Columbia..

27

exception, foreign representatives .. 27

for legation buildings , China.

27

for salaries, ministers .

48, 1403

for rent, legation in China

48

for instruction , etc. , pay, consuls .

48

for services to American vessels and sea-

men..

48, 667, 1403

for mileage

634

for chargés d'affaires ad interim ..

634,

1372, 1405

for interpreters to consulates .

635

for International Institute of Agriculture. 635

for consular salaries ....

667

for Mexican Boundary Commission

885

for transportation diplomatic and con-

sular officers ..

1372

consular service reorganization...

99

Diplomatic Officers,

appropriation for transportation ; allowance

for ..

288, 922

for paying heirs of, dying abroad

290, 920

for bringing home from abroad remains

of.

290, 920

deficiency appropriation for transportation . 634, 1372

Dirck, David,

pension increased .

2194

Director ofthe Census,

appropriation for, statisticians , clerks, etc. 443 , 988

to prepare Official Register....

219

Director of the Mint (see also Mints and Assay

Offices) ,

appropriation for, examiner, assayer, clerks,

etc.

409, 955

for freight on bullion and coin .

409, 955

for contingent expenses.

409, 955

for examinations, etc ..

409, 956

for incidentals .

409, 956

for collecting precious metals statistics . 409, 956

deficiency appropriation for freight on bul-

lion and coin ..

31, 639

for examinations , etc.

31, 1373

duties of, coinage of minor coins ..

132

printing extra copies of annual report 1906 . 1424

number increased ....

1425

printing extra copies statistics of precious

metals 1905..

1425

number increased .

1425

Disability, Pensionable,

age of 62 and over considered a permanent

specific ..

133

Disbursing Officer's Checks,

issue of duplicate of lost ; limit removed... 301

not exceeding fifty dollars

301

INDEX .

3383

Discharges, Army,

Page.

effect of final honorable discharge on previ-

ous service ; officers included ....

836

conditions ...

836

Discriminating Duties,

proclamation suspending, on imports from

Panama...

3038

Discriminations , Railway,

regulations to prevent unjust interstate... 584

penalty for giving or receiving .

587

Diseases of Horses, Special Report on,

new edition ordered ; distribution ..

1425

Diseases, Quarantinable,

appropriation for preventing introduction

of yellow fever and other.

301

Dismal River Forest Reserve, Nebr.,

appropriation for station building...

696

Dispatch Agents,

appropriation for, London, New York, and

San Francisco ...

289, 919

Distilled Spirits,

deficiency tax provisions applied to spirits recovered from fortified sweet wines . 215

Distilleries,

producing alcohol for denaturation only, of

small capacity; special regulations .. 1250

Distinctive Paper, National Currency,

appropriation for expenses...

706, 1313

Distinctive Paper, United States Securities,

appropriation for expenses..

706, 1313

District Attorneys, United States Courts,

appropriation for salaries, etc ....

753, 1360

Idaho and California, southern district . 754

clerks in vacation....

754

clerks and messengers New York,

southern district..

754

northern district of Illinois .

1360

southern district of New York.

1360

for regular assistants ..

754, 1361

for special assistants

754, 1361

deficiency appropriation for salaries, etc... 40,

41, 657, 667, 1403

for special assistants

41, 657

appointment for United States court for

China ; salary ; tenure ..

816

to prosecute violations of Pure Food Act .. 769

District Courts,

appropriation for judges....

447, 992

concurrent jurisdiction in cases under im-

migration act ...

907

to issue writs of mandamus to compel com-

pliance with interstate commerce

regulations .....

594

jurisdiction in naturalization of aliens..... 596

District Judges,

appropriation for salaries .... for expenses outside of district ..

447, 992 755, 1361

deficiency appropriation for, Alabama,

northern district ..

1390

Nebraska, additional ..

1390

New Jersey and Washington

41

New York, southern district, addi-

tional...

657

Ohio, southern district, additional .. 1390

Oklahoma .

1390

additional, provided for Arizona, eastern

and western districts ..

283

California. northern district .

1253

Nebraska ...

997

New York, southern district .

202

Ohio, southern district ..

928

Oklahoma, eastern and western districts . 275

designation of judge from another circuit

permitted to act for disabled .......

1417

provided for Alabama, northern district.... 931

District of Columbia,

Page .

appropriation for expenses (half from

Treasury, half from District reve-

nues) .

482, 1119

for general expenses, executive office . 482, 1119

plumbing board reorganized ..

483

for assessor's office.

483 , 1120

for excise board ...

483, 1121

for personal tax board . for collector's office..

484, 1121 484, 1121

for auditor's office..

484, 1121

for corporation counsel's office .

484, 1121

for sinking fund office..

484, 1121

for coroner's office ..

484, 1121

for market. masters ' , etc.

484, 1121

charges, etc., for street markets ..

485

for sealer ofweights and measures , etc. 485, 1122

for engineer's office ...

485, 1122

for special assessment office .

487, 1123

for street-sweeping office .

487, 1123

for board of examiners, steam engi-

neers ....

487, 1124

for insurance department ..

487, 1124

forsurveyor's office .. for free public library . for contingent expenses..
restriction on use of horses, etc.

487, 1124 487, 1124 488, 1125 488, 1125

use for fire insurance prohibited ... 488 , 1125

stable expenses..

488, 1125

postage .

488, 1125

rent.

489, 1125

collecting personal taxes .
judicial expenses .. coroner's , etc. , expenses .

489, 1125 489, 1125 489, 1126

advertising..

489, 1126

enforcing game and fish laws .

489, 1126

for municipal building....

489, 1126

for survey of dangerous, etc. , build-

ings ....
for property yard.... for almshouse cemetery .

489, 1126 489, 1126
489

for tablets to mark historical places .. 489, 1126

for book typewriters Recorder's office ;

to be used for recording ..

489

for repair shop.....

1126

for addition to Eastern Market house

1126

for motor vehicle tags ...

1126

for card index , register of wills ..

1126

for eliminating grade crossings , Union

Station ....

490, 1126

improvement of plaza..

1127

for assessment and permit work.. 490, 1127

for paving roadways ..

1127

for work on streets and avenues ; sched-

ules ...

490, 1127

streets paved with Belgian blocks not

to be improved ....

490, 1127

for paving approaches to Connecticut avenue bridge ; time extended ...... 1128

sewerage pumping station ..

1128.

for paving Twenty-third from Q street

to Sheridan circle ..

1128

for paving South Carolina avenue .

1128

for paving Florida avenue, Eighteenth street to Connecticut avenue ..................... 1128

for grading streets , etc .... for condemning streets, etc ..

490, 1128 491 , 1128

for opening, etc. , alleys and minor

streets ; employment of counsel .. 491 , 1128

for county roads, construction , etc .... 491 , 1128

condemning land for extension of Mas-

sachusetts avenue ..

492

for repairs, streets, etc. immediately available ..

492, 1129 1130.

3374

INDEX.

Dallas, Tex.,

Page.

limit of cost increased , public building ... 774

appropriation for...

789

Dallman, Thomas G.,

pension increased ..

2563

Dalny, Manchuria, classification and salary of consul....................... 99
Dalton, Ga.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

778

appropriation for.

792, 1297

Daly, James C.,

pension increased ..

2290

Daly, Richard C.,

pension increased .

1792

Dalzell, John K., pension increased .....

... 1998

Damm, Henry, pension increased ....

2458

Dams,

general regulations for constructing for

power, etc ..

386

approval of plans, etc., by Chief of En-

gineers and Secretary of War, re-

quired ......

386

maintenance of locks, sluices, etc ..

386

land, etc. , for lock for navigation .

386

liability for flowage damages..

386

forfeiture for noncompliance with re-

quirements ..

386

penalties for violations ; removal, etc... 386

time for construction : ..

387

right to amend, etc. , reserved ..

387

authorized by riparian owners, Coosa

River, Ala. , near Lock 2 ..

183

construction of, authorized across Bear

River, Tishomingo County, Miss .. 130, 929

Choctawhatchee River, Dale County,

Ala .

102

Coosa River, at Lock and Dam No. 12.. 1288

Crow Wing River, Morrison and Cass

counties, Minn ..

296

Flint River, at Porter Shoals, Ga.

878

Goose Creek, S. C ....

265

Mississippi River, Bemidji , Minn

210

Clearwater, Minn....

266

Monticello, Minn ..

264

Morrison County, Minn...

209

Stearns and Sherburne counties , Minn . 537

Missouri River, Mont ..

111, 912

Niobrara River, Nebr ..

297

Pea River, near Elba, Ala .

18

Pend d'Oreille River, Big Falls, Wash.. 205

Stevens County, Wash .

931

Red Lake River, Minn ..

65

Rock River, near Grand Detour, Ill .

14

Lyndon, ll:.

933

Rock Island County, Ill..

155

Saint Joseph River, near Berrien Springs,

Mich..

102

Mottville, Mich .

1254

Savannah River, at Andersonville

Shoals ....

1240

above Augusta, Ga..

1000

Calhoun Falls...

1240

Cherokee Shoals .

1255

Gregg Shoals ..

876

Hattons Ford .

1240

McDaniel Shoals ..

1238

Middleton Shoals .

1239

Trotters Shoals ..

1241

Turner Shoals .

1239

Tennessee River. at Muscle Shoals , Ala. 52

White River, Ark....

628

Dams -Continued .

Page.

location, etc., modified of, across Missis-

sippi River, in Morrison County,

Minn

1219

time extended for, across Mississippi River,

at Clearwater, Minn..

1235

Monticello, Minn .

1235

Rock Island Rapids.

876

Sauk Rapids, Minn..

1058

Wright and Sherburne counties, Minn. 84

Missouri River, Mont ......

1415

provisions for electric-power companies,

Indian Territory ..

146

Dancy, George L.,

pension...

2747

Danforth, George L.,

pension increased.

2711

Daniel, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2369

Danieldson, August,

pension increased .

1888

Daniels, Aaron,

pension increased ..

2263

Daniels, Abbie J. (daughter), pension..
Daniels, Clara E. (widow), pension increased ..

2230 2771

Daniels, Joseph,

pension increased .

2430

Daniels, Myra R. (vidow),

pension increased .

1925

Daniels, Thomas W.,

pension increased .

2575

Danielson, C. J.,

payment to..

2661

Dapnelnesyi, oAnnidnrcerweaDs.ed, .

1957

Danner, Charles E. , and Company,

refund of license to....

2412

Danville, Ill.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ..

748, 1355

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home..

34, 1383

Danville, Ky.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

779

appropriation for.. Danville, Va. ,

792, 1297

terms of court at..

547

D'Arbonne River,

bridge_authorized across, at Farmerville,

La ..

1254

Darby, George W., pension increased .

1777-

Darcy, Mary E. (mother),

pension.

2005

Durling, Delphine (widow),

pension increased .

2420

Darling, James M.,

granted honorable discharge..

2305

Darling, La Forrest C.,

pension increased

1656

Dauber, K. H.,

payment to ..

2661

Daughenbaugh, Jonathan,

pension increased .

1670

Daughenbaugh, Samuel M.,

pension increased .

2228

Daugherty, Lewis L.,

pension increased .

1571

Daughters of the American Revolution,

may erect fountain at Paducah, Ky .

878

punishment for unauthorized wearing in-

signia of, in District of Columbia.... 62

INDEX .

3375

Dauphin Island, Ala., bridge authorized across Mobile Bay, between Cedar Point and ...
Davenport, Abram W. , pension increased .
Davenport, Iowa,
acquiring site for public building at, authorized ..
appropriation for .
Davenport, Mary E. (widow) , pension increased
Davenport, Mary L. (widow), pension increased .
Davenport Water Power Company, time extended for dam, etc., Mississippi
River, at Rock Island Rapids ...... Davey, Henry,
pension increased .

Page. 10
1726
782 794 1472 1799
876 1899

Davis, Levis F., pension increased .
Davis, Lucretiu (widow), pension increased .
Davis, Marcus, pension increased ..
Davis, Matthew J., payment to..
Davis, Moses, pension increased .
Davis, Moses B., pension increased.
Davis, Newton S., pension increased .
Davis, Philena (widow), pension increased .
Davis, Philo E., pension increased .

Page. 2172 2457 2601 2313 2059 1734 2089 1503 *2108

David, Ferdinand, pension increased

Davis, Richard E.,

2331 pension increased .

1864

Davidson County, Tenn.,

Davis, Samuel B.,

may build two bridges across Cumberland

pension increased ..

2508

River, at Nashville ..

135 Davis, Samuel H.,

time extended ..

927 pension increased .

2142

Davidson, David L., pension increased

Davis, Samuel L., 1528 pension increased .

2537

Davidson, Eliza (widow), pension increased .
Davidson, James M., pension increased .

Davis, Samuel S.,

1898 may dam north and south branches of Rock

River, Ill ..

.155

2556 Davis, Seth,

Davidson, Lucinda (widow), pension increased .
Davies, Thomas J., pension increased .
Davis, Aaron,
pension.. Davis, Barlow,
pension increased .
Davis, Christopher C., pension increased
Davis, David, pension increased
Davis, Dennis A., pension increased
Davis, Elizabeth (widow), pension increased .
Davis, Franklin H., pension increased
Davis, Henry C., pension increased
Davis, Henry H., pension increased
Davis, Hezekiah, military record corrected. payment to widow of..
Davis, Hiram N. , deficiency appropriation for maple sugar bounty ...
Davis, James, pension increased
Davis, James H., military record corrected .
Davis, James N., pension increased
Davis, John G., pension increased

2553 1663 2749 2301 2137 1727 1492 1448 2758 2641 2488 2820 2821
1375 2352 2166 2139 1726

honorable discharge granted.......... Davis, Stephen M.,
pension increased
Davis, Susan E. (widow), pension increased ..
Davis, Temperance (widow), pension increased .
Davis, Theodore T., pension increased .
Davis, Thomas B.,
pension... Davis, Thomas C.,
pension increased Davis, Thomas J.,
pension increased .
Davis, William , Illinois Volunteers, pension increased ..

2221 , 2811 1657 2797 2656 2192 1698 2421 2042 1751

Davis, William , Oregon Volunteers,

pension increased .

2280

Davis, William , War with Mexico, pension increased ..

2783

Davis, William P.,

pension increased .

1643

7

Davison, James H. ,

pension increased .

2469

Davy, Michael, alias James Byron, pension increased ...
Dawes, John W., pension increased .

1992 2170

Dawson, Sarah A. (widdw),

pension increased .

2200

Dawson, Yukon Territory, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire .

99 294, 924

Davis, John W.,

Day, Enos,

pension increased .

1683 pension increased .

1912

Daris, Joseph, pension increased .

Day, Sarah Ann (widow),

1.504 pension increased ..

2103

Davis, Julius A. ,

Dayhuff , Martin,

pension increased .

2115 pension increased .

1996

Davis, Lewellen T. ,

Dayton, James,

pension increased .

1826 i pension increased .

1865

3364

INDEX.

Compulsory Education, D. C. (see Education Page. of Children, D. C. , Compulsory).

Comstock, Franklin,

pension increased .

2630

Conant, A. Judson,

pension increased .

2789

Conant, Etta D. (widow),

pension increased .

1700

Conant, Henry A.,

pension increased .

2223

Concessions, Railway, etc. ,

penalty for giving or receiving .

587

Concord, N. C.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized .

783

appropriation for.

795

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS (see PART 2) .

Condemnation of Insanitary Buildings, D. C.,

board for, created ; composition ; powers,

etc ....

157

meetings; inspection of premises .

157

orders of condemnation; vacation of build-

ings, etc..

157

repairs; demolition, etc.

158

premises in litigation, etc.

158

service of notice ..

159

interference with inspection, removing or-

ders, etc. , forbidden..

159

punishment for violations..

160

legal proceedings for vacating orders, etc .. 160

award of damages ; evidence admitted.. 160

payment of expenses...

161

Condemnation of Streets, etc. , D. C. ,

appropriation for..

491, 1128

Condemned Cannon,

loaned to Petoskey , Mich ..

1293

Preston, Iowa..

1422

Condiment,

articles used for, included as "food " in

Pure Food Act .......

769

Conduits, D. C.,

under Seventh street from Center Market

for refrigeration extended ....

93

Conecuh River, Ala . ,

appropriation for improvement of.

1087

Conecuh River, Fla. and Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of.

1087

Coney Island Channel, New York Harbor,

appropriation for improvement of..

1077

survey of, ordered ....

538

Confectionery, included as " food " in Pure Food Act ..... 769

Confederate Battle Flags,

delivery to Confederate Memorial Literary

Society, Richmond, Va. , of uni-

dentified ..

837

Confederate Soldiers,

deficiency appropriation for claims for

property taken from....

1381

Confederate Soldiers and Sailors,

graves of, who died in northern prisons or



hospitals, to be located , etc ..

56

headstones, care , etc ...

56

appropriation for expenses.

56

commissioner to be appointed ; duties,

salary, etc ...

56

Congaree River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of; exten-

sion..

1084

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 1116

Congdon, Caroline W. (widow),

pension increased .

2529

Congress,

appropriation for printing and binding

for ....

759, 1366

Congress -Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for extra month's

pay to employees .

660, 1394

for Robert Brent Mosher.

660

adjournment of, ordered for June 30 , 1906. 2835

holiday recess ordered for 1905.

2829

for 1906 ..

2837

may fix diversion of waters of Great Lakes

or Niagara River..

626

Congress of Hygiene and Demography, Interna-

tional,

invited to meet in Washington ........

1422

Congressional Cemetery, D. C.,

certain restrictions on property repealed .. 1236

Congressional Directory,

appropriation for compiling ....

392, 938

Congressional Elections,

money contributions by corporations for,

prohibited..

864

penalty..

865

Congressional Employees,

to receive December, 1905 , salaries Decem-

ber 20.

821

December, 1906 , salaries December 20 .. 1418

Congressional Library (see Library of Con-

gress). Congressional Record,

appropriation for reporting proceedings,

House of Representatives .

396, 942

Senate ..

392, 938

for clerk in.charge, at the Capitol ..

943

for printing and binding.

759, 1366

address of Gen. Horace Porter at John Paul

Jones ceremonies to be printed in .. 829

Congressional Reference Library,

appropriation for custodian, etc ......... 397, 945

Conine, Charles,

pension increased .

1636

Conine, Fanny L. (widow),

pension increased ..

1886

Conklin, George,

pension increased .

1838

Conley, Carrie A. (widow),

pension increased .

177)

Conley, Charles H.,

pension increased ...

1717

Conley, John A.,

pension increased ..

1622

Conn, James L.,

pension increased .

2465

Conneaut, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1095

Connecticut,

may return certain ordnance purchased ... 105

value to be credited to militia quota..

105

appropriation for..

106

Connecticut Avenue Bridge, D. C., appropriation for completing, across Rock Creek..
for paving approaches to . time extended for completing .

492 1128 1128 .

"Connecticut," Battle Ship,

limit of cost increased ..

583

Connecticut River, Conn.,

appropriation for lighting.

713, 1320

for improvement of, between Hartford

and Holyoke ; surveys, etc .....

1075

below Hartford...

1077

preliminary examination of, to be made for

removing obstructions Eight Mile

River and East Branch..

1112

Connell, John W.,

pension...

2265

Conner, William D. ,

pension increased ..

2071

INDEX .

3365

Connell, Willie, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Connellsville, Pa.,
acquiring site for public building at, authorized
appropriation for. Connelly, Edmund T. , alias John Marks,
pension increased Connersville, Ind.,
acquiring site for public building at, authorized ...
appropriation for. Connery, Charles F.,
pension increased .
Connor, Hilia Ann (widow), pension..
Connor, John, pension increased
Conover, Daniel S. , pension increased
Conrad, James M., pension increased ..
Consolidated Index to Statutes at Large,
deficiency appropriation for preparing....
Conspiracies in Restraint of Trade, etc. , investigation ordered of, in coal or oil............

Page. 349
784 795 1543
782 794 2578 1436 1661 2209 1636
1395 823

Constantinople, Turkey,

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for hire of steam launch for

embassy .

289, 919

for purchase of legation buildings, etc... 293

for clerk hire, consulate-general at .... 294, 924 "Constituin," Frigate,

appropriation for restoring to original con-

dition, etc...

573

Constitution of the United States,

to be adopted by constitutional convention

of Arizona ..

279

Oklahoma ....

269

Construction Plants, Navy- Yards,

appropriation for repairs and improve-

ments ...

573, 1195

Consular Agents,

appointment of, when necessary..

100

receiving more than $1,000 a year not al-

lowed to transact any private busi-

ness ..

101

Consular Clerks, appropriation for salaries...

293, 923

compensation increased...

923

Consular Courts,

jurisdiction of consuls in China, diminished 814

Consular Fees,

to be paid into the Treasury..

101

payment to consular agents from; maxi-

mum..

101

for certifying invoices to be prescribed by

the President............

101

adhesive official stamps denoting, to be

affixed to all documents ...

102

Consular Inspectors, appropriation for salaries.. for expenses...
Consular Marshals,

293, 923 293, 923

appropriation for, in China, Korea, an

Turkey..

294, 925

Consular Officers,

appropriation for transportation; allowance

for...

288, 922

for paying heirs of, dying abroad .

290, 920

for bringing home from abroad; remains

of....

290, 920

deficiency appropriation for salaries ..

667

for transportation ....

1372

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -49

Consular Officers-Continued. receiving more than $ 1,000 a year forbidden to transact private business... notarial acts required of fees to be prescribed ... all fees to be turned into the Treasury .
payment of consular agents from compensation of vice and deputy officers.. official stamps to be affixed to documents
by... no act valid without .. Consular Regulations,
appropriation for rewriting.... Consular Service,
reorganization of.... consuls-general, classification and salaries .
consuls, classification and salaries...
vice and deputy officers..... temporary service of consuls as .
consular agents continued .. commercial agents abolished . consuls-general at large, authorized .
salary, appointment, duties.... powers; bond ..

Page.
101 101 101 101 101 101
102 102
925
99 99 99 100 100 100 .100 100 100 100

clerks receiving more than $1,000 a year to

be American citizens ..

101

business prohibitions extended to practice

of law...

101

may be extended to feed officers, etc.

101

notarial acts required ; fees....

101

fees, official or unofficial, to be paid into

the Treasury...

101

allowance to consular agents ..

101

vice and deputy officers, additional com-

pensation...

101

invoice fees to be prescribed by President . 101

documentary stamps required for official

acts ...

102

in effect June 30 , 1906 ..

102

inconsistent laws repealed..

102

Consulates,
appropriation for repairs to premises ... for clerk hire.....

291 , 921 293, 923

maximum allowance increased .

294

for contingent expenses...

295, 926

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses..

... 27, 635, 667, 1403

clerks receiving $1,000 a year or more must

be citizens ..

101

Consuls,

appropriation for salaries.........

293, 923

duties of, in estates of deceased American

citizens in China....

815

reports, etc. , to United States court..

815

new classification of....

99

may temporarily act as vice and deputy

officers ..

100

prohibition against transacting business ex-

tended to practicing law..

101

Consuls-General, appropriation for salaries . new classification of...

293, 923 99

prohibition against transacting business ex-

tended to practicing law.

101

Consumptive Sanitarium,

lands granted to Minnesota for.....

195

Consumptives' Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for erection, etc. , for indigent

tuberculosis patients.......

511

Contagious Diseases,

appropriation for preventing introduction

of yellow fever and other....

301

admission of aliens afflicted with loath- .

some, etc. , excluded ...

899

3354

INDEX.

Chesnimnus Forest Reserve, Oreg., proclamation establishing..

Page. 3022

including, in Imnaha Forest Reserve .... 3284

Chester River, Md. ,

appropriation for improvement of ......... 1081

Chester, S. C.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for.

793, 1296

Cheyenne and Arapaho Indians, Okla. , appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 362, 1043

Cheyenne Indians , Arapaho and Northern,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with. 354, 1035

Cheyenne River Agency, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 369 , 1046

Cheyenne, Wyo. ,

appropriation for public building....

697

Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company,

may reconstruct bridge across Mississippi

River, Clinton, Iowa ...

879

Chicago, Ill.,

appropriation for warehouse, Indian sup-

plies .

329, 1018

for assistant treasurer's office ..

411, 958

for underground mail transportation . 475, 1214

for enforcing anchorage regulations .. 702, 1309

for preserving Confederate Mound, Oak-

wood Cemetery . for improvement of harbor .

741, 1347 1102

for public building, post-office and court-

house

1296

deficiency appropriation for post-office and

court-house, improvements, etc .... 31

for post-office, etc. , building , advertising . 638

interior decoration authorized..

697

appraiser's salary increased ..

763

Chicago, Kansas City and Texas Railway Com-

pany,

time extended for bridging Missouri River

between Kansas City and Sibley,

Mo. , by

911

Chicago, Lake Shore and South Bend Railway Company,

may bridge Calumet River in Lake County,

Ind .

877

Chicago, Milwaukee and Saint Paul Railway

Company,

allottees on right of way, Standing Rock

Reservation, may sell land to; con-

ditions ...

1047

granted right of way through Fort Keogh

Military Reservation, Mont ..

187

may bridge Columbia River between

Douglas and Kittitas counties, Wash. 109 between Franklin and Benton coun-

ties, Wash....

108

Missouri River, S. Dak .

95

Broadwater and Franklin counties .

456

Lewis and Clarke County, Mont ..

457

Snake River, Lewiston , Idaho ..

98

between Whitman and Columbia coun-

ties, Wash.....

107

Yellowstone River, Mont .

97

Chicago River, Ill.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1102

Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad

Company,

not liable for mortgage bonds of Choctaw,

Oklahoma and Gulf Railroad Com-

pany.

.149

Chicago Terminal Transfer Company, may bridge Grand Calumet River, Ill... 1234

Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park,

appropriation for establishing

744, 1349

for bridges..

744 , 1349

Chickasahay River, Miss.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of..

1088

Chickasate Indians (see also Five Civilized

Tribes) ,

appropriation for tribal schools .

340, 1026

for investigating deposits in segregated

coal lands

346

added to final roll : Rebecca Pitts, Maggie

Wade

340

allotments to freedmen considered home-

steads ...

138

town lots reserved for operating, etc. , coal

and asphalt leases, to be sold; pro-

ceeds ...

141

patents to issue for allotments donated by,

to Murrow Indian Orphans' Home.. 142

may convey fractional allotment rights to

Murrow Home .

142

additional lands conveyed to Murrow

Home...

142

freedmen to have preference of unallotted

lands; limit ..

143

nonagricultural, etc. , lands in large tracts

may be sold .

143

highways on section lines of lands of..

145

payment to State National Bank, Denison,

Tex. , legislative expenses...

345

tribal courts abolished ; causes transferred . 1027

unallotted lands reserved for churches of

freedmen..

338

for cemeteries..

338

Chickasha, Okla.,

terms of court

275

Chicken Pox, D. C.,

provisions to prevent spread of....

889

Chico, Cal. ,

appropriation for plant introduction garden

at..

683

Chicott Pass, La.,

appropriation for lighting.....

713, 1320

Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, appropriation for....

446, 991

made a trustee, Foundation for Promotion

of Industrial Peace...

1242

Chief of Engineers, Army,

approval of, and Secretary of War, required

for plans, etc. , of dams ....

386

Chief of Staff, Army,

*

appropriation for expenses , military infor-

mation division..

240, 1158

for service schools ...

240, 1158

details of civilians to or from War Depart-

ment forbidden ..

418

Chihuahua, Mexico , classification and salary of consul ... appropriation for clerk hire ....

100 294, 924

Chilcote, Alfred B. ,

pension increased ..

1856

Child Labor,

investigation directed of industrial, etc. ,

conditions of...

866

appropriation for..

1330

Child Labor Committee, D. C. , National,

incorporated ; objects, etc ..

914

Childers, George W. ,

pension increased

1962

Children ,

citizenship of, born abroad................ .

1229

Children, D. C. ,

jurisdiction of juvenile court over neg-

lected, etc ...

74

parents and guardians neglecting, etc...

74

punishment for desertion, etc., by parent

of minor...

86

* $

INDEX .

3355

'hildren's Guardians, D. C. , Board of,

Page.

appropriation for administrative ex-

penses for salaries ..

511, 1152 511, 1152

for feeble-minded children .

511, 1152

for board, etc. , of children .

511 , 1152

payments to sectarian institutions;

burials .

511, 1152

for building industrial home school for

colored children ...

511

deficiency appropriation for feeble-minded

children ..

642, 1379

for care of children .

1379

powers of juvenile court in commitments

to ....

74

Children's Hospital, D. C..

appropriation for care of indigent pa-

tients .

510, 1151

Childress, Rufus G.,

pension increased

1719

Childs, Earl K.,

pension increased .

2292

Childs Glacier, Alaska,

bridge authorized across Copper River at.. 804

Childs, Harold D. ,

may be appointed ensign and retired..... 1417

Chile,

appropriation for minister to .

286, 916

for secretary of legation..

287, 917

proclamation asking aid for sufferers , earth-

quake at Valparaiso, etc ..

3227

Chilocco, Okla. ,

appropriation for Indian school...

362, 1043

for water system...

1043

deficiency appropriation for Indian school. 655 lease of portion of reservation authorized.. 362

Chilsom, Daniel, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .....

365

China,

appropriation for minister to

286, 916

for secretary of legation.. for second secretary .

287, 917 287, 917

for Chinese secretary

288, 918

for assistant Chinese secretary.

288,918

for student-interpreters; tuition .

288, 918

for expenses, United States court for . 922, 1357

for interpreters at consulates in..

294, 924

for marshals, consular courts

294, 925

for expenses of prisoners ..

295, 925

for marking places where American sol-

diers fell in..

1175

deficiency appropriation for legation build-

ings, Peking

27

for rent, legation buildings ..

48

for United States court for

669

plan for consular buildings in, to be pre-

pared

292

China, United States Court for,

appropriation for salaries..

922

for expenses judge and district attorney.. 922

for deputy marshals and clerks .

922

for expenses .

1357

deficiency appropriation for salaries , etc .. 669

established ; jurisdiction ...

814

regular sessions ; special hearings at consu-

lates..

814

seal, process, etc ..

814

jurisdiction of consuls in minor cases ; ap-

peals ...

814

appeals from consular courts in Korea..

814

supervision over estates of deceased citi-

zens ..

815

duties of consuls .

815

appeals from, to circuit court of appeals,

ninth district

815

China, United States Court for-Continued . appeals from, to Supreme Court ; procedure . general jurisdiction ; procedure .. officers; salaries . tenure of office ..
bond of marshal and clerk ; deputies marshals of consular courts in China

Page. 815 815 810 816. 816

abolished .

816

tariff of fees ...

816

Chinese Customs Service,

appropriation for reimbursing for gas buoy,

Yangtse River.

1293

Chinese Exclusion Act,

appropriation for enforcing....

722, 1329

deficiency appropriation for enforcing.

1403

not affected by alien immigration act.

911

Chinese Plague,

appropriation for prevention of epidemic .. 709, 1316

Chipman, James F. ,

pension increased .

1965

Chinook Indians, Wash. and Oreg.,

claims of certain bands to be investigated. 369

Chipola River, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of; cut off. 1087 Chippewa Falls, Wis.,

construction of public building authorized

at .

777

appropriation for.

792 , 1296

Chippewa Indian Reservation , Minn.,

return of excess to purchasers of pine tim-

ber..

351

payment to logging superintendents ..

351

Chippewa Indians, Mich. , L'Anse and Vieux

de Sert,

shares of minors and incompetents in trust

funds may be paid to guardians..... 356

Chippewa Indians, N. Dak. , Turtle Mountain

Band,

appropriation for support , etc., of ..............

360

Chippewa Indians of Lake Superior,

appropriation for support, etc. , of .

380, 1051

allotments to Indians of La Pointe Reser-

vation .

1217 .

Chippewa Indians of Minnesota,

appropriation for advance interest .

350, 1033

entry of drainage lands authorized .. 1033

for civilization, etc ...

350, 1033

for completing drainage survey ; sale ,

etc

352, 1033

disposition of lands.

352

deficiency appropriation for surveying and

allotting..

655

grant of Cooper Island to Minnesota for

public park.....

352

sale of fallen timber and hay, Chippewa

Reservation; proceeds..

351

Chippewa Indians ofthe Mississippi,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with;

schools ..

350, 1033

Chippewa Indians, Turtle Mountain Band, appropriation for support, etc., of
Chippewa Indians, White Earth Band, appropriation for expenses of annual celebration ....
Chiricahua Forest Reserve, Ariz., proclamation adding lands to .
Chloral Hydrate, D. C. , restriction on sale, etc. , of..

1042
1034 3244
179

Chocolate Bayou , Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1091

Choctaw Indians (see also Five Civilized

Tribes) ,

appropriation for tribal schools .

340, 1026

for fulfilling treaties with.

341 , 1027

3354

INDEX .

Chesnimnus Forest Reserve, Oreg. ,

Page.

proclamation establishing.

3022

including, in Imnaha Forest Reserve .... 3284

Chester River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1081

Chester, S. C.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for .

793, 1296

Cheyenne and Arapaho Indians , Okla. , appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 362 , 1043
Cheyenne Indians, Arapaho and Northern, appropriation for fulfilling treaties with. 354, 1035
Cheyenne River Agency, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 369 , 1046

Cheyenne, Wyo.,

appropriation for public building ....

697

Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company,

may reconstruct bridge across Mississippi

River, Clinton, Iowa..

879

Chicago , Ill. ,

appropriation for warehouse, Indian sup-

plies ...

329, 1018

for assistant treasurer's office ...

411 , 958

for underground mail transportation . 475, 1214

for enforcing anchorage regulations .. 702, 1309

for preserving Confederate Mound, Oak-

wood Cemetery . for improvement of harbor..

741, 1347 1102

for puhboluiscebuilding, post-office and court- .... 1296

deficiency appropriation for post-office and

court-house, improvements, etc .... 31

for post-office, etc. , building, advertising . 638

interior decoration authorized ...

697

appraiser's salary increased ....

763

Chicago, Kansas City and Texas Railway Com-

pany,

time extended for bridging Missouri River

between Kansas City and Sibley,

Mo. , by

911

Chicago, Lake Shore and South Bend Railway

Company,

may bridge Calumet River in Lake County,

Ind .

877

Chicago, Milwaukee and Saint Paul Railway

Company,

allottees on right of way, Standing Rock

Reservation , may sell land to ; con-

ditions ...

1047

granted right of way through Fort Keogh

Military Reservation, Mont ..

187

may bridge Columbia River between

Douglas and Kittitas counties, Wash. 109 between Franklin and Benton coun-

ties, Wash..

108

Missouri River, S. Dak .

95

Broadwater and Franklin counties .

456

Lewis and Clarke County, Mont ..

457

Snake River, Lewiston, Idaho

98

between Whitman and Columbia coun-

ties, Wash..

107

Yellowstone River, Mont ...

97

Chicago River, Ill.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1102

Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad

Company,

not liable for mortgage bonds of Choctaw, Oklahoma and Gulf Railroad Com-

pany..

.149

Chicago Terminal Transfer Company,

may bridge Grand Calumet River, Ill.

1234

Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Park,

appropriation for establishing .

744, 1349

for bridges....

744, 1349

Chickasahay River, Miss.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of..

1088

Chickasaie Indians (see also Five Civilized

Tribes) ,

appropriation for tribal schools .

340, 1026

for investigating deposits in segregated

coal lands

346

added to final roll : Rebecca Pitts, Maggie

Wade

340

allotments to freedmen considered home-

steads....

138

town lots reserved for operating, etc., coal

and asphalt leases, to be sold; pro-

ceeds....

141

patents to issue for allotments donated by,

to Murrow Indian Orphans' Home.. 142

may convey fractional allotment rights to

Murrow Home ...

142

additional lands conveyed to Murrow

Home..

142

freedmen to have preference of unallotted

lands ; limit ..

143

nonagricultural, etc., lands in large tracts

may be sold ..

143

highways on section lines of lands of.

145

payment to State National Bank, Denison,

Tex. , legislative expenses....

345

tribal courts abolished; causes transferred . 1027

unallotted lands reserved for churches of

freedmen..

338

for cemeteries.

338

Chickasha, Okla.,

terms of court

275

Chicken Pox, D. C. ,

provisions to prevent spread of........................

889

Chico, Cal. ,

appropriation for plant introduction garden

at ..

683

Chicott Pass, La.,

appropriation for lighting..

713, 1320

Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, appropriation for .

446, 991

made a trustee, Foundation for Promotion

of Industrial Peace ...

1242

Chief of Engineers, Army,

approval of, and Secretary of War, required

for plans, etc., of dams....

386

Chiefof Staff , Army,

appropriation for expenses, military infor-

mation division..

240, 1158

for service schools ..

240, 1158

details of civilians to or from War Depart-

ment forbidden ...

418

Chihuahua, Mexico,
classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire......

100 294, 924

Chilcote, Alfred B. ,

pension increased .

1856

Child Labor,

investigation directed of industrial, etc. ,

conditions of....

866

appropriation for ..

1330

Child Labor Committee, D. C. , National,

incorporated ; objects, etc ..

914

Childers, George W. ,

pension increased

1962

Children ,

citizenship of, born abroad.......

1229

Children, D. C..

jurisdiction of juvenile court over neg-

lected, etc ..

74

parents and guardians neglecting, etc.... 74

punishment for desertion , etc. , by parent

of minor...

86

INDEX .

3355

'hildren's Guardians, D. C. , Board of,

Page.

appropriation for administrative ex-

penses . for salaries..

511, 1152 511, 1152

for feeble-minded children ..

511, 1152

for board, etc. , of children .

511 , 1152

payments to sectarian institutions ;

burials

511, 1152

for building industrial home school for

colored children.......

511

deficiency appropriation for feeble-minded

children .

642, 1379

for care of children .

1379

powers of juvenile court in commitments

to..

74

Children's Hospital, D. C..

appropriation for care of indigent pa-

tients .

510, 1151

Childress , Rufus G.,

pension increased

1719

Childs, Earl K.,

pension increased .

2292

Childs Glacier, Alaska,

bridge authorized across Copper River at.. 804

Childs, Harold D. ,

may be appointed ensign and retired ............ 1417

Chile,

appropriation for minister to .

286, 916

for secretary of legation...

287, 917

proclamation asking aid for sufferers , earth-

quake at Valparaiso, etc ..

3227

Chilocco, Okla.,

appropriation for Indian school ...

362, 1043

for water system...

1043

deficiency appropriation for Indian school . 655

lease of portion of reservation authorized.. 362

Chilsom, Daniel, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to......

365

China,

appropriation for minister to .

286, 916

for secretary of legation.. for second secretary .

287, 917 287, 917

for Chinese secretary .

288, 918

for assistant Chinese secretary.

288, 918

for student-interpreters ; tuition ..

288, 918

for expenses, United States court for . 922, 1357

for interpreters at consulates in..

294, 924

for marshals, consular courts

294, 925

for expenses of prisoners ..

295, 925

for marking places where American sol-

diers fell in..

1175

deficiency appropriation for legation build-

ings, Peking

27

for rent, legation buildings .

48

for United States court for

669

plan for consular buildings in, to be pre-

pared

292

China, United States Courtfor,

appropriation for salaries...

922

for expenses judge and district attorney.. 922

for deputy marshals and clerks ..

922

for expenses .......

1357

deficiency appropriation for salaries, etc .. 669

established ; jurisdiction ...

814

regular sessions ; special hearings at consu-

lates .

814

seal , process, etc.

814

jurisdiction of consuls in minor cases ; ap-

peals ..

814

appeals from consular courts in Korea..

814

supervision over estates of deceased citi-

zens ..

815

duties of consuls .

815

appeals from, to circuit court of appeals,

ninth district .

815

China, United States Court for- Continued . appeals from, to Supreme Court ; procedure. general jurisdiction ; procedure. officers ; salaries . tenure of office.. bond of marshal and clerk ; deputies . marshals of consular courts in China abolished . tariff of fees...
Chinese Customs Service,

Page. 815 815 810 816 . 816
816 816

appropriation for reimbursing for gas buoy,

Yangtse River..

1293

Chinese Exclusion Act,

appropriation for enforcing ..

722, 1329

deficiency appropriation for enforcing..

1403

not affected by alien immigration act .

911

Chinese Plague,

appropriation for prevention of epidemic .. 709, 1316

Chipman, James F. ,

pension increased

1965

Chinook Indians , Wash. and Oreq., claims of certain bands to be investigated. 369

Chipola River, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of; cut off . 1087

Chippewa Falls, Wis. ,

construction of public building authorized

at .

777

appropriation for..

792, 1296

Chippewa Indian Reservation , Minn.,

return of excess to purchasers of pine tim-

ber....

351

3 payment to logging superintendents .

351

Chippewa Indians, Mich. , L'Anse and Vieux de Sert,

shares of minors and incompetents in trust

funds may be paid to guardians.

356

Chippewa Indians, N. Dak. , Turtle Mountain

Band,

appropriation for support , etc., of ....... 360

Chippewa Indians of Lake Superior,

appropriation for support, etc. , of.

380, 1051

allotments to Indians of La Pointe Reser-

vation ...

1217 .

Chippewa Indians of Minnesota,

appropriation for advance interest .

350, 1033

entry of drainage lands authorized .

1033

for civilization , etc ..

350, 1033

for completing drainage survey; sale,

etc

352, 1033

disposition of lands .

352

deficiency appropriation for surveying and

allotting..

655

grant of Cooper Island to Minnesota for

public park..

352

sale of fallen timber and hay, Chippewa

Reservation; proceeds .

351

Chippewa Indians of the Mississippi,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with;

schools ..

350, 1033

Chippewa Indians, Turtle Mountain Band,

appropriation for support , etc., of

1042

Chippewa Indians , White Earth Band,

appropriation for expenses of annual cele-

bration ....

1034

Chiricahua Forest Reserve, Ariz.,

proclamation adding lands to..

3244

Chloral Hydrate, D. C.,

restriction on sale, etc. , of..

179

Chocolate Bayou, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1091

Choctaw Indians (see also Five Civilized

Tribes) ,

appropriation for tribal schools ,

340, 1026

for fulfilling treaties with .

341 , 1027

3356

INDEX.

Choctaw Indians- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for investigating deposits in

segregated coal lands .

346

added to final roll : Malinda Pickens, Morris

Battiest, and Samuel Sidney Burris. 340

allotments to freedmen, considered home-

steads ..

138

segregation of certain lands for sale, etc..

139

town lots reserved for operating , etc. , coal

and asphalt leases, to be sold; pro-

ceeds ..

141

patents to issue for allotments donated by,

to Murrow Indian Orphans' Home .. 142 may convey fractional allotment rights to

Murrow Home ....

142

additional lands conveyed to Murrow

Home...

142

freedmen to have preference of unallotted

lands; limit ..

143

nonagricultural, etc. , lands in large tracts

may be sold ...

143

highways on section lines of lands of.

145

claim of S. W. Peel for legal services to,

referred to Court of Claims ....

2415

of Peter P. Pitchlynn's heirs referred to

Court of Claims ...

345

coal lands, additional reservation ; pay-

ment by lessors ....

338

land set aside for Old Goodland Indian

Orphan Industrial School...

341

Mississippi Choctaws, removing prior to

1906 , to be enrolled with ...

341

treaty funds placed to credit of tribe..

1027

tribal courts abolished ; causes transferred . 1027

unallotted lands reserved for churches of

freedmen ...

338

for cemeteries ..

338

Choctaw , Oklahoma and Gulf Railroad Com-

pany, mortgage bonds excepted from transfer.... 149 payment from funds of Otoe and Missouria

Indians to ...

366

Choctawhatchee Power Company,

may dam Choctawhatchee River, Dale

County, Ala..

102

Choctawhatchee River, Ala., dam authorized across, in Dale County .... 102 preliminary examination of, to be made... 1111

Choctawhatchee River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of .

1087

Cholera,

appropriation for prevention of epidemic .. 709, 1316

Choptank River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of.... ... 1081

Chouteau County, Mont.,

lease of lands to, for dry-land farming ex-

periments..

552

Chrisler, Nicholas,

pension increased .

1678

Christian, Paul J.,

pension increased .

2456

Christiania, Norway, classification and salary of consul-general.. appropriation for clerk hire...
Christie, James J.,
pension.... Christie, Susan F. ( vidow),
pension increased Christjohn, Esther, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to.. Christjohn, William , Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to .. Christman, John H. ,
pension increased

99 924 2198 2382 381 381 2404

Christoff, John, pension increased .

Page. 1456

Christopherson, Christopher,

pension increased .

2284

Christy, William D., pension increased .
Chubb, Henry, pension increased .

*2066 2070

Chungking , China ,

classification and salary of consul .

99

Church, Byard H.,

pension increased .

1706

Church, Charles,

pension increased .

2670

Church, Hannah C. (widow),

pension increased ..

2135

Church, Kate S. (widow),

pension increased .

2488

Church ofthe Covenant, D. C. ,

taxes refunded ...

869

Churchill, William H. ,

pension increased

2798

Cienfuegos, Cuba,

classification and salary of consul ..

99

appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

Cincinnati, Ohio,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's office . 412 , 958

for pneumatic-tube, etc. , mail service . 472 , 1211

Cipher Code, Department of State,

appropriation for...

926

Circuit Courts,

appropriation for circuit judges....

446, 992

for clerks, circuit courts of appeal. 446, 992

concurrent jurisdiction in cases under im-

migration act .....

907

jurisdiction in naturalization of aliens..

596

to issue injunctions to enforce compliance

with Interstate Commerce Commis-

sion orders .....

592

writs of mandamus to compel compli-

ance with interstate commerce regu-

lations...

594

Circuit Courts of Appeals,
appropriation for clerks.. for messenger, etc. , eighth circuit. for law books ..

446, 992 447,992 447, 993

appeals allowed in any interlocutory order

of injunction

116

to be taken in thirty days; effect .

116

appeals, etc., from United States court for

China, to ninth circuit..

815

Circuit Judges,

appropriation for..

446, 992

Citizen Pottawatomie Indians,

fee-simple patents to certain allottees..... 365

Citizenship (see also Immigration Act) , passports may be issued to residents three

years after making declaration of

intention...

1228

valid for six months...

1228

not good in country of former citizenship . 1228

expatriation of citizens by foreign natural-

ization...

1228

of naturalized citizens by continued resi-

dence abroad ; exception ..

1228

not allowed in time of war ..

1228

American women married to foreigners.. 1228

resumption of citizenship on termination

of marital relation ; abroad ..

1228

in the United States...

1229

foreign women married to Americans .

1229

renunciation on termination of marital

relation ....

1229

retention , if abroad..

1229

INDEX.

3357

Citizenship-Continued . children born abroad of alien parents afterwards naturalized ...
during minority... to begin with permanent residence . children of citizens born abroad ..

Page.
1229 1229 1229 1229

must record intention at age of 18, if

abroad ; oath required..

1229

records, etc. , to be filed in Department of

State

1229

Citizenship, American,

clerks in consulates to be of....

101

provisions for admission of aliens, etc. , to .. 596

City Delivery, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, assistant,

etc.

437,983

for letter carriers ..

.471 , 1210

for substitute, auxiliary, and temporary

carriers

1210

for new offices .

471, 1210

for horse hire and vehicles...

471 , 1210

for car fare and bicycle allowance .. 471 , 1210

for mechanics ...

471 , 1210

for marine service, Detroit, Mich.. 472, 1210

for incidental expenses.

472, 1210

for special delivery .. for supplies ..

472, 1211 476, 1215

deficiency appropriation for..

658

grading and promotion of carriers .

1206

efficiency records for promotions and reduc-

tions ..

1206

eligibility for higher positions ..

1206

transfer as clerks ; limit ..

1206

Ciudad Juarez, Mexico,
classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire..

100 294, 924

Ciudad Porfirio Diaz, Mexico, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire..

100 294, 924

Civil Engineers, Navy,

allowances for, and assistants .

555

Civil Pension Roll,

establishment of, in postal service , forbid-

den..

478, 1217

Civil Service Commission,

appropriation for Commissioners, secretary,

clerks, etc...

401 , 947

for field force, examiners, clerks, etc .. 401 , 948

for rural carrier examining board .. 401, 948

details from Executive Departments

prohibited ....

401 , 948

transfers of employees.

401 , 948

for traveling, etc. , expenses .

401, 948

for contingent expenses .

434,979

for rent...

434, 979

for printing and binding .

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for traveling, etc.,

expenses..

1371

Claiborne, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1081

Claiborne, Thomas,

pension increased .

1824

Claims,

appropriation for defending suits in .... 751 , 1358

for defense in Indian depredation ... 752, 1358

for settling, for damages, United States,

Cuba, etc., to private property.

1165

for paying certain, under Navy Depart-

ment..

1290

deficiency appropriation for New York and

Pennsylvania, war of 1812 .

29

for defending suits in claims .

40, 656, 1389

for defense, Indian depredation .

40

for paying judgments, Court of Claims .

44 ,

664, 1399

Claims-Continued .

Page .

deficiency appropriation for judgments,

Indian depredation

44, 48, 664, 1400

for paying, certified by accounting offi-

cers ..

45, 665, 1400 , 1404

for paying awards, Spanish Treaty Com-

mission..

45, 665, 1400

for paying Texas, frontier defense, 1855-

1860 ...

645

for Confederate soldiers ' .

1381

international treaty for submitting pecuni-

ary, to arbitration ..

2845

Minnesota, for suppressing Indian hostil-

ities, to be reopened .

637

readjustment of Rhode Island , expenses,

war with Spain ..

214

Claims Commission , Spanish Treaty,

appropriation for defense in suits before. 752 , 1359

for expenses taking testimony abroad . 752, 1359

deficiency appropriation for paying awards 45,

665, 1400

Clapp, Charles H.,

pension increased .

2695

Clapp, Sarah A. ,

payment to .

2410

Clapper, Henry, pension increased .
Clapper, Richard E., pension increased .

2582 2379

Clardy, Albert M. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

365

Clarinda, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized at; nominal site ..
appropriation for . for purchase of site.
allowance for site of public building . Clark, Aaron K.,
pension increased .
Clark, Adolphus P., pension increased
Clark, Albert Richard, pension increased .
Clark, Alice G. (widow), pension increased .
Clark, Burr, pension increased
Clark, Erastus C., pension increased
Clark, Franklin D., pension increased
Clark, Frederick W., pension increased
Clark, Gilbert W., pension increased

778 792 1296 1236 2054 2716 1605 2273 2597 2146
1868 2075 2610

Clark, Hiram C., pension increased
Clark, Isaac G., pension increased
Clark, Jerome B., pension increased
Clark, Job, pension increased
Clark, John, Illinois Volunteers, pension increased
Clark, John, U. S. Infantry, pension increased .

2116 2257 2644 2613 2541 1744

Clark, John J.,

pension increased

2544

Clark, John L.,

pension increased

1650

Clark, Joseph H.,

pension increased .

2588

Clark, Joshua J..

pension increased .

2132

3358

INDEX.

Clark, Laura (urdow) , pension increased .
Clark, Louisa A. (undow), pension increased .

Page. 1505
2140

Clark, Martin,

pension increased

1943

Clark, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

1957

Clark, Mary A. ( widow) ,

pension..

2476

Clark, Silas G.,

pension increased

2429

Clark, Thomas,

pension increased

1616

Clark, Wilbur II.,

pension increased

2260

Clark, William J.,

pension increased

2607

Clark, William O.,

pension...

1953

Clarke, George W.,

appropriation for injuries to batteau ...... 1293

Clarke, William A. ,

pension increased

2758

Clarkes Creek, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of.

1084

Clarksburg, W. Va.,

terms of court at ..

891

Clarksville, Tenn.,

bridge authorized across Cumberland River

at..

134

Classification Division , Post-Office Depart-

ment,

appropriation for superintendent, special

agents, etc ....

438,983

for per diem, special agents ..

438, 984

Claunch, Elias,

pension increased

1728

Clay, Cornelia W. (widow),

pension increased

2697

Clay County, Ark. ,

may bridge Black River at Bennetts Ferry. 892

Clay, James W.,

lands granted to heirs of.

2823

Clayton, Holmes,

pension increased

2281

Clearwater, Fla.,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made .

1112

Clearwater, Minn.,

dam authorized across Mississippi River at . 266

time extended for dam, etc., of Mississippi

River at..

1235

Cleary, Francis J.,

may be appointed ensign in the Navy .... 633

to be additional number..

633

Cleaveland, Esther A. (widow), pension increased .
Cleavenger, Minor, pension increased
Cleaver, Elizabeth (widow),
pension.. Clegg, Doris F. (widow),
pension increased .
Clendenin, Frank, pension increased.
Clendening, William F., pension increased .

2316 2542 2338 1818 1894 2663

Clerk Hire, Members and Delegates, appropriation for ...

396, 942

Clerk of the House of Representatives, appropriation for, clerks, etc. for digest of private claims.

393, 938 393

restriction of orders by, for reprinting bills,

resolutions , etc ..

1012

Clerks and Messengers to Committees,

Page.

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives.

393, 939

for Senate..

390, 935

Clerks at Consulates ,

appropriation for; maximum allowance

increased..

294, 923

limitation...

923

receiving $ 1,000 a year or more to be Ameri-

can citizens ...

101

Clerks at Embassies and Legations,

appropriation for; new appointees to be

citizens ...

...... 288, 918

Clerks, Messengers , etc. , Army,

appropriation for, at headquarters ..... 243, 1161 details to War Department forbidden ... 243 , 1161 Clerks to Committees,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives, annual.

393, 939

session..

394, 940

for Senate..

390, 935

Clerks to Senators,

appropriation for..

391 , 937

deficiency appropriation for..

43

Clerks, United States Courts,

appropriation for fees..

754, 1361

deficiency appropriation for fees

48 ,

657, 667, 1391, 1403, 1405

appointment for United States court for

China; salary; tenure .....

816

to make returns of all moneys received.... 754

Cleveland, John A. ,

may be appointed second lieutenant, Army,

notwithstanding age............

1225

Cleveland, Ohio,

appropriation for public building ..... 697 , 1296

rent ..

698, 1296

for improvement of harbor ; restriction ;

contracts .

737, 1094, 1344

for marine hospital .

1307

Cleveland, Tenn.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for .

795

Clevenger, Galon S. ,

pension ..

1667

Cliborne, John F. G. ,

pension increased

2567

Clifton Forge, Va.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1296

Clifton, John L.,

pension increased

2181

Clifton Street, D. C.,

name of Douglas changed to .

385

Clinch River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of.

1094

Clinch River, Va., bridges authorized across, and branches ... 191

Cline, Jacob,

pension increased.

2084

Cline, Peter,

pension increased .

1629

Cline, Philipp, alias Francis Klein,

pension increased .

1600

Clinkscales, William F.,

pension increased.

2379

Clinton, Christopher,

pension increased .

1436

Clinton County, Iowa,

transferred from northern to southern

judicial district ....

304

INDEX.

3359

Clinton, Iowa,

Page.

reconstruction of bridge authorized across

Mississippi River at

879

Clinton, Mo.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for.

795

Clinton River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of ......... 1098

Clobridge, Selden C.,

pension increased .

1675

Cloe, Emile,

pension increased

2332

Clother, Asa J.,

pension increased .

2595

Clothing, Army, appropriation for.

254, 1171

for indemnity for, destroyed for sanitary

reasons .

254, 1171

for undrawn, enlisted men

245, 1163

balances on discharge payable from

regular pay fund ...

246

deficiency appropriation for.. Clothing, Marine Corps,
appropriation for.........

46, 646, 666, 1401 580, 1202

Cloud, Abby B. ( widou ),

pension increased .

2062

Cloud Chief, Okla.,

Washita county seat changed from , to New

Cordell..

50

Clough, William ,

pension increased .

1712

Cloutier, Ada, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

374

Club and Plantations Creeks Canal, Ga.,

appropriation for constructing ..

1085

Cluck, Albert G.,

pension increased .

1684

Cluley, John F.,

pension increased .

1614

"Clytie ", Yacht,

appropriation for paying damages to owner . 1291

Coad, James C. ,

pension increased .

2225

Coahoma County, Miss. ,

may bridge Coldwater River to Quitman

County ...

631

Coal,

investigation ordered of ownership, etc. ,

in, or properties, by railroads and

officials ...

823

combinations, etc. , to monopolize trade

in .....

823

car-supply system .

823

Coal, Army, sale to citizens of Nome, Alaska, permitted . 59

Coal Claims, Philippines,

appropriation for purchase of, in island of

Batan....

23

Coal, D. C.,

penalty for delivering without certificate

of weight, etc ..

94

Coal Lands,

locations of, on unallotted lands of Black-

feet Indian Reservation, Mont...... 1038

Coal Lands, Indian Territory,

reserved from sale until expiration of

leases, etc ..

142

Coal Lands, Osage Indian Reservation, Okla. ,

provisions for leasing , royalties, etc.

543

Coal Monopolies,

appropriation for examinations , etc ....

705

deficiency appropriation for examinations

into ...

119

Coal, Navy,

Page.

appropriation for, and transportation ... 560, 1182

deficiency appropriation for, and trans-

portation..

35, 666, 1385

"Coalinga," Bark,

change of name authorized ....

626

Conls, Lignites, etc.,

appropriation for testing, etc.; collection

of materials for examination, etc. 728, 1335

Coast and Geodetic Survey,

appropriation for ; advances..

713, 1321

for field expenses, Atlantic and Gulf

coasts, etc ..

714, 1321

for Pacific Ocean surveys

714, 1322

transportation to Manila. etc. , Filipino

employees..

714, 1322

for hydrographic researches, etc.

714, 1322

for Coast Pilot, etc

714, 1322

for magnetic observations, etc.

714, 1322

points to State surveys .

714, 1322

for special surveys

714, 1322

for miscellaneous ; Maryland oyster beds. 714 ,

1322

for delegate, International Geodetic As-

sociation

·    715, 1322

assignment of pay by employees .'

1322

for vessels, repairs, etc..

715, 1322

for vessels, officers, and men ..

715, 1322

for superintendent, assistants, etc ... 715, 1323

for office force ....

715, 1323

for office expenses..

716, 1324

for printing and binding

760, 1368

deficency appropriation for repairs to ves-

sels .

42

for office expenses..

1393

for Aug. F. Rodgers ..

1393

to cooperate in survey, etc. , of Maryland

oyster beds .

202

Coast Artillery, Army,

duties described .....

861

to constitute a corps..

861

number of officers ; band ..

861

composition of companies ; limit.

862

assigninent of officers; promotions...

863

filling vacancies...

863

pay and allowances of enlisted men .

863

extra to casemate electricians, etc.;

limit ..

863

Coast Artillery, Army, Chief of

designation of Chief of Artillery changed

to , July 1 , 1908 ...

861

to be additional member of General Staff;

service ....

861

vacancies; retired rank, etc.

861

Coast Pilot,

appropriation for compiling.

.... 714, 1322

Coasters Harbor Island, R. I.,

appropriation for naval training station . 556, 1178

for Naval War College ...

556, 1179

for public works, training station Naval War College..

567, 1189 567

for service of architect, barracks

1292

deficiency appropriation for buildings,

Naval War College ...

650

for replacing buildings destroyed by fire. 650

for War College..

1385

Coasting Districts , Great,

established ; first, Atlantic coast ..

190

second, Porto Rico ..

190

third, Pacific coast

190

fourth, Alaska..

190

fifth , Hawaii .

190

Coasting Trade,

restrictions not applicable to Philippines

until April 11, 1909 ...

154

3360

INDEX.

Coates, John W., pension increased .
Coaticook, Quebec, classification and salary of consul .
Coats, R. Smith,

Page. 2196
100

Cohen, Stephen D., pension increased
Coin,

Page. 1607

appropriation for freight on bullion and .. 409, 955

pension increased .

2430

Cobb, Cate E. (widow),

pension increased .

1726

Cobb, Cyrus W.,

pension increased .

2280

Cobb, Felix G.,

pension increased

2548

Cobb, Harlan P.,

pension increased .

1947

Coburg, Germany,

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

for transporting silver....

706

for transporting fractional silver..

1312

for transporting silver..

1313

for transporting minor.

706, 1312

for recoining gold ....

706, 1313

deficiency appropriation for recoininggold. 28

for transporting silver...

28, 119, 636, 1373

for freight on bullion and .

31, 1376

for transporting minor..

636, 1374

permanent appropriation for metal for

minor, increased ..

132

appropriation for clerk hire....

294, 924 Coker, John,

Coburn, Mary (widow),

pension increased

2143

pension increased .

1691 Colby, Abram P. ,

Cocaine, D. C.,

pension increased

2279

restriction on sale, etc., of..

179 Colby, William M.,

Cochetopah Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

pension increased .

2538

proclamation establishing

3101 Cold Spring Inlet, N. J.,

Cochran, John S., pension increased .
Cochran, Mary (widow),

appropriation for improvement of; contri-

2492

bution of local authorities, etc.; re-

striction ..

1079

pension..

1994 Cold Springs, Ga.,

Cochran, William H., pension increased .
Cochrane, Irene A. (widow), pension increased .
Cody, Gabriel, pension increased .
Coeur d'Alene Forest Reserve, Idaho,

appropriation for fish hatchery .

721

2736 Colding, James L. ,

pension increased . 1486
Coldwater, Mich. ,

2556

1932 acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

proclamation establishing . Coeur d'Alene, Idaho,

3256

appropriation for.....

Coldwater River, Miss.,

793, 1297

part of Fort Sherman , abandoned military reservation granted for cemetery to... 3004

Coeur d'Alene Indian Reservation,

appropriation for Indian agent, etc. , at

334

for superintendent...

1023

disposal of unallotted lands in.

335

allotments to Indians..

335

classification of residue; open to home-

stead entry..

336

appraisal; payments ; commutation .. 336 mineral entries; coal and oil deposits .. 336

saleof remaininglands ; school sections . 336

proclamation of opening ; regulations.... 337 reservations for public uses ; town sites . 337

disposal of proceeds ; distribution.

337

agency, etc., lands ..

337

rules, etc.; responsibility of United

States..

337

appropriation for expenses ; reimbursable;

use of proceeds .

338

owners of land adjoining may purchase

from, to complete holdings ....

1229

Coeur d'Alene Indians,

appropriation for improvement of....

1C88

bridge authorized across, between Coa-

homa and Quitman counties ..

631

Cole, Burgess,

pension increased .

1690

Cole, Charles L.,

pension increased .

2610

Cole, Clarke S.,

pension increased . Cole, George W. ,

2489

pension increased

2686

Cole. James H. , alias John V. ,

pension...

1516

Cole, Lucy (widow),

pension increased

2508

Cole, Norman H. ,

pension increased

2326

Cole, Peter,

pension increased .

1908

Cole, Robert,

pension increased .

2561

Cole, Seymour,

pension increased

1687

Cole, Theodore,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with. Coffey, James I. , Indian Allottee,
alienation restrictions removed..
Coffey, John L., pension increased .
Coffin, Griffin A. , pension increased .
Coffin, Henry C.. pension increased .
Coffman, Daniel M., pension increased
Coffman, Victor H. , pension increased
Cohansey River, N. J.,

335, 1024 351 1974
2754 1912 1744 2455

pension increased Colegate, William H.,
pension increased .
Coleman, Clara P. (widow), pension increased
Coleman, David B. , pension increased .
Coleman, John, jr., pension increased .
Collection Districts, Customs (see Customs). Collection of Customs Duties,
permits to load or unload at night , vessels from foreign ports...
extended to bonded carriers from United

2175 2107 2709 2069 1684
633

appropriation for improvement of......... 1080

States ports....

633

INDEX.

3361

Collectors of Customs,

Page.

deputy, to be appointed by Secretary ofthe

Treasury; duties, etc ..

880

Collector's Office, D. C.,

Colorado Continued.

Page.

grant of public lands to Boulder, for water

supply.

1223

Gunnison Forest Reserve, established .

3025

appropriation for salaries..

484, 1121 Holy Cross Forest Reserve, established .

3144

Coller, Hester A. (widow), pension..
Collett, Dier, pension increased .

2683 2235

enlarged . La Sal Forest Reserve, Utah and, estab-
lished
Las Animas Forest Reserve, established...

3286
3190 3289

Collier, George W., pension increased .

Leadville Forest Reserve, established .. 3013 1626 lease of lands of Southern Utes in La Plata

Colliers, Naval (see also Naval Auxiliaries) ,

appropriation for maintenance .

556

deficiency appropriation for maintenance

of..

46, 647, 666, 1385

County, to P. F. U. Rubber Com-.

pany .

88

may purchase desert lands in former South-

ern Ute Reservation..............

1056

limit of cost increased, of, now building ... 583 Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, Wyo . and,

Collingwood, Ontario, classification and salary of consul.....

enlarged

3039, 3303

100 Mesa Verde National Park, created .

616

Collins, Ada (daughter),
pension.. Collins, Charles,
pension.. Collins, Henry E.,
pension increased .

Montezuma Forest Reserve, established 3106

2066

enlarged

3307

Ouray Forest Reserve, established .

3271

2177 Park Range Forest Reserve, established.. 3079

area modified

3285

2471 resurvey of certain townships, Baca

Collins, Isaiah, pension increased .

County, authorized..

459

1688

of township in Fremont County.

868

Collins, James, pension increased .
Collins, Kemenskio A. N. L., alias Lewis, pension increased .
Collins, Martha J. (widow), pension increased .
Collins, Milton S., pension increased .

right of way granted over public lands in,

2640

for irrigation and electric-power

plants ....

1227

1489 San Isabel Forest Reserve , area extended . 3083

San Juan Forest Reserve, established .

3070

2450

enlarged

3308

Uncompahgre Forest Reserve , established . 3109

2293

enlarged

3282

Collins, Lieut. R. W.,

WetMountains Forest Reserve, established . 3096

deficiency appropriation for refund ....... 1380 Colorado River, Tex.,

Collisions at Sea,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1117

lights, etc. , on fishing vessels and boats to prevent...
former laws repealed ..

Colorado Springs, Colo.,

850 appropriation for public building...... 698, 1297

852 limit of cost increased , public building .

773

Collum, Georgetta K. (widow),
pension.. Cologne, Germany,
classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire..............

Colorado State Agricultural College,

2479 lands granted for forestry purposes to

1246

reversion for nonuser..

1246

99 Colored Agricultural Normal University,

294, 924

Okla. ,

Colombia, appropriation for minister to
for secretary of legation....

lands reserved for ; disposition .

273

286, 916 indemnity grant of lands to...

275

287, 917 Colored Industrial Home School, D. C.,

Colombo, Ceylon, classification and salary of consul ..

appropriation for salaries and expenses .. 1152 99 Colored Women and Children, D. C., National

Colon, Panama,

Association for Reliefof,

classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire

99 294, 924

appropriation for care of children by; con-

tract .

512, 1153

Colson, William O.,

Colonels, Army, Retired,

pension increased .

1548

on active duty to receive same pay, etc., as

Colton, Francis,

a retired major ......

245 1 pension increased .

1941

Colorado, appropriation for Indian service in for incidentals, Indian service in ..

| Columbia and Colville Indian Reservations,

334, 1023 334, 1023

Wash.,

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc .... 434, 980 trust patents to allottees under Moses agreement ....

18 181818 18

Battlement Mesa Forest Reserve, area

modified .

3076

conveyance in fee after ten years ..

Cochetopah Forest Reserve, established . 3101 consolidation of Pikes Peak and Plum

sale permitted allottees, except 80 acres .

by heirs of allottees ...

taxation on lands sold .

56

Creek timber land reserves, and

South Platte Forest Reserve into

Columbia County, Wash.,

Pikes Peak Forest Reserve .

3029

Durango, granted lands for water supply;

bridge authorized across Snake River between Whitman County and ....... 107

price, etc..

1053 Columbia Deafand Dumb Institution, D. C.,

entry of certain lands by Mancos, au-

thorized .

459

appropriation for current expenses for repairs, etc. ,

731, 1338 731, 1338

forest reserves not to be created or added to

for instruction .

503 , 1142

in, except by act of Congress ... Fruita Forest Reserve, established .

1271 deficiency appropriation for current ex-

3191

penses ...

37

3362

INDEX.

Columbia Heights, D. C.,

Page.

appropriation for site for future normal ,

etc. , schools ...

502

Columbia Hospital for Women, D. C., appropriation for care of indigent tients ..
for repairs.... Columbia Indian Reservation , Wash. ,

pa510, 1151
510

entries, etc., of lands on former, made be-

fore withdrawal for irrigation proj-

ects, confirmed ..

934

Columbia, Miss., bridge authorized across Pearl River at... 933

Columbia, Mo. ,

limit of cost increased , public building .. 773

appropriation for..

789

Columbia River, Oreg., appropriation for lighting...

713, 1320

Columbia River, Wash. and Oreg.,

appropriation for improving mouth of..

131 ,

738, 1107

between Vancouver and mouth of Wil-

lamette....

738

at Three-Mile Rapids..

738

below Portland..

738

for improvement of lower.

1107

between Dalles Rapids and Celilo

Falls; contracts...

1107

and tributaries to mouth of Snake

River.......

1107

for improvement of upper..

1107

between Wenatchee and Bridgeport,

Wash.......

1109

bridge authorized across, between Benton

and Franklin counties, Wash

108, 866

Benton and Walla Walla counties

866

Douglas and Kittitas counties ..

109

Vancouver, Wash ....

2

Wenatchee, Wash..

6

light-vessel authorized , off mouth of.

324

appropriation for..

711, 1318

Columbia Road, D. C. ,

proceedings to condemn land for widening,

east of Sixteenth street .

844

appropriation for..

845

deficiency appropriation for extending.... 641

Columbia, S. C.,

terms of court at ; fall term for civil cases

only ....

1002

Columbia, Tenn.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

781

appropriation for..........

794, 1297

Columbia Valley Railroad Company,

granted right of way through Fort Colum-

bia Reservation , Wash..

926

quarantine station , Wash .

926

Columbian University, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

869

Columbus Barracks, Ohio,

appropriation for post hospital ...

255

Columbus, Christopher,

memorial to be erected in District of Co-

lumbia, to ...

1413

commission created to select site, design ,

etc ..

1413

appropriation for expenses .:

1413

Columbus, Ga.,

bridge authorized across Chattahoochee

River between Franklin and.

324

two bridges authorized across Chattahoochee River between Eufaula and... 325

Columbus, Ind. ,

Page.

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for.

794

Columbus Memorial Library,

appropriation for site and contribution to

building for...

758

Columbus, Miss.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

779

appropriation for , .

793, 1297

Columbus, Nebr.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for.

795

Columbus, Ohio,

enlargement of public building at, au-

thorized ...

774

appropriation for.. rent...

790, 1297 1297

Colville Agency, Wash., appropriation for Indian agent at.. for support, etc. , of Indians at..
Colville Forest Reserve , Wash. ,
proclamation establishing . Colville Indian Reservation, Wash.,

377, 1050 377, 1050
3288

appropriation for part payment for lands

ceded on..

1050

for ceded portion of

377

claims of attorneys referred to Court of

Claims ..

378

survey and allotments to Indians of..

80

disposal of unallotted lands ....

80

proclamation opening, to settlement .

81

sale of timber lands...

81

disposal of proceeds; per capita ..

81

reservations for agency, schools , etc

$2

appropriation for expenses; reimbursable.. 82

town-site provisions ; proceeds ..

82

withdrawal for irrigation projects ...

82

change in enrollment of bill authorized ... 2829

Colvin, William,

pension increased .

2247

Comanche, etc. , Indian Reservations , Okla..

pasture and wood reserves in, opened to

homestead entry.

3233

Comanche, etc. , Indians, Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ... 361. 1043 town sites set aside on the common lands of . 80

Combs, Henry D.,

pension increased .

2656

Combs, William W.,

pension increased .

2084

Comer, Michael,

pension increased ..

1619

Commerce (see Interstate Commerce Commission ) .

Commerce and Navigation, provisions for trade with Philippines ............. 154
Commerce, Internal and Foreign,

appropriation for experts, etc. , collecting

facts relative to .

989

Commerce, Interstate (see Interstate Commerce).

Commercial Agents,

office of, abolished.

100

Commercial Arrangements, Reciprocal.

proclamation announcing, with Bulgaria . 3231

with Germany.

3192

with Portugal.

3268

with Spain....

3227

with Switzerland ..

3185

Commissary-General's Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc ..

419,965

deficiency appropriation for salaries

665

INDEX .

3363

Commissary-Sergeants , Army Post, appropriation for pay.

Page . 242, 1160

Commission (Canadian) , Joint High, appropriation for preparing reports, etc ... 292
Commission, International Prison,
appropriation for annual subscription ... 291 , 921 Commission, Mexican Water Boundary,
appropriation for continuing work of.. 291 , 920

Commission on Columbus Memorial, D. C.,

composition of, duties, etc ...

1413

appropriation for expenses...

1413

Commission on Postal Service, Joint Con-

gressional,

appointment; duties, etc ..

1216

Commission on Revision of the Laws,

to make final report by December 15 , 1906. 574

review of work by joint Congressional com-

mittee...

1423

Commission on Surplus Waters of Mississippi

River, Minn.,

composition; subjects to be considered .... 456

Commission, Postal,

authorized to investigate , etc. , second-

class mail matter.

477

appropriation for..

477

existence continued .

1420

Commission, Saint John River, Joint,

appropriation for expenses of...

292

Commission to Peace Conference at The Hague,

deficiency appropriation for pay and ex-

penses...

118

Commissioner-General of Immigration,

to administer all immigration laws, etc.... 905

Commissioners, United States Courts,

appropriation for fees...

755, 1361

deficiency appropriation for fees .

48,

667, 669, 1403, 1405

to have a seal ; use, etc ...

546

Committee on Arid Lands, House of Repre-

sentatives,

deficiency appropriation for clerk..

662

Committee on Department Methods,

deficiency appropriation for salaries

663

Committee on Immigration and Naturalization,

House of Representatives,

deficiency appropriation for clerk ..

662

Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,

House of Representatives,

deficiency appropriation for additional

clerk ..

662

Committee on Patents, House of Representa-

tives,

deficiency appropriation for clerk

662

Committee on Printing (see Joint Committee

on Printing). Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds,

House of Representatives, chairman to serve on commission on New

York postal situation ...

786

Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds,

Senate,

chairman to serve on commission on New

York postal situation ...

786

Committee on Revision, etc. , ofthe Laws, Joint

Special,

appointment ; duties , powers, etc..

1423

payment of expenses .

1423

Committee on the Library, House of Represent-

atives,

chairman to serve on Barry Monument

Commission

224

commission to select site for Longfellow

statue ..

830

John Paul Jones Monument Commission . 224

Stephenson Memorial Commission

1424

Committee on the Library, Senate, chairman to serve on Barry Monument Commission

Page. 224

commission to select site for Longfellow

statue

830

John Paul Jones Monument Commission. 224

Stephenson Memorial Commission .

1424

Committee on Ventilation and Acoustics,

Senate,

deficiency appropriation for pay of clerk.. 1395

Committees of Congress,

limit on printing for use of...

1012

Committees on Appropriations, Senate and

House of Representatives,

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation to clerks...

1396

Common Carriers ( see also Railroads, and Interstate Commerce Regulations),

appropriation for regulating commerce by,

etc.

1311

provisions limiting hours of labor by rail-

road train, etc., employees ..

1415

subject to interstate-commerce rules, etc. ,

pipe lines for oil , etc.....

584

railroads, and rail and water lines carry-

ing goods, etc. , between States and

Territories ..

584

within a Territory ..

584

to adjacent foreign country .

584

through a foreign country .

584

for export...

584

from foreign countries..

584

wholly within a State excepted .

584

express and sleeping car companies in-

cluded as.

584

switch connections, etc. , to be furnished for

private sidings ..

585

liability for injuries to employees.

232

of bonded merchandise from United States

ports may be permitted to load or

unload at night.

633

Commutation of Quarters, Army,

determination of duty without troops ..

246

Commutation ofRations,

appropriation for, Army..

249, 1165

special allowance, Fort Bayard , N.

Mex ...

250, 1166

for volunteers , etc ..

750, 1356

Compañia de las Ferrocarriles de Puerto Rico,

payment to ..

1817

Compensation in Lieu of Moieties, appropriation for.......
Compilations of Laws,

708, 1315

appropriation for preparing, for Congress ,

etc.

753, 946

Compton, Cynthia A. (widow),

pension....

2185

Compton Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1079

Compton, Emily (widow),

pension ..

2011

Comptroller of the Currency,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc ... 407, 954

for expenses, superintendent, etc. 407, 954

for special examinations, etc ..

408, 954

deficiency appropriation for special exami-

nations...

1373

number of copies increased of annual re-

port..

1425

reports to, required from all savings , trust,

and banking associations, District

of Columbia ..

458

Comptroller of the Treasury, appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc .. 405 959

3364

INDEX .

Compulsory Education, D. C. (see Education Page. of Children, D. C. , Compulsory) .

Comstock, Franklin,

pension increased .

2630

Conant, A. Judson,

pension increased .

2789

Conant, Etta D. (widow),

pension increased .

1700

Conant, Henry A.,

pension increased .

2223

Concessions, Railway, etc. ,

penalty for giving or receiving .

587

Concord, N. C. ,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized .

783

appropriation for.

795

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS (see PART 2) .

Condemnation of Insanitary Buildings, D. C.,

board for, created ; composition; powers,

etc ....

157

meetings; inspection of premises .

157

orders of condemnation ; vacation of build-

ings, etc...

157

repairs; demolition , etc.

158

premises in litigation , etc.

158

service of notice ..

159

interference with inspection, removing or-

ders, etc. , forbidden..

159

punishment for violations..

160

legal proceedings for vacating orders, etc.. 160

award of damages ; evidence admitted .. 160

payment of expenses..

161

Condemnation of Streets, etc. , D. C., appropriation for..
Condemned Cannon,
loaned to Petoskey, Mich .. Preston, Iowa....
Condiment,

491, 1128
1293 1422

articles used for, included as " food " in

Pure Food Act .......

769

Conduits, D. C., under Seventh street from Center Market

for refrigeration extended ....

93

Conecuh River, Ala. ,

appropriation for improvement of......

1087

Conecuh River, Fla. and Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1087

Coney Island Channel, New York Harbor,

appropriation for improvement of..

1077

survey of, ordered ....

538

Confectionery, included as "food " in Pure Food Act ..... 769

Confederate Battle Flags,

delivery to Confederate Memorial Literary

Society , Richmond , Va . , of uni-

dentified..

837

Confederate Soldiers,

deficiency appropriation for claims for

property taken from ....

1381

Confederate Soldiers and Sailors,

graves of, who died in northern prisons or



hospitals, to be located , etc..

56

headstones, care, etc ...

56

appropriation for expenses .

56

commissioner to be appointed ; duties,

salary, etc ...

56

Congaree River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of; exten-

sion..

1084

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 1116

Congdon, Caroline W. (widow),

pension increased .

2529

Congress,

appropriation for printing and binding

for....

759, 1366

Congress-Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for extra month's

pay to employees .

660, 1394

for Robert Brent Mosher.

660

adjournment of, ordered for June 30, 1906 . 2835

holiday recess ordered for 1905.

2829

for 1906 ..

2837

may fix diversion of waters of Great Lakes

or Niagara River..

626

Congress of Hygiene and Demography, Interna-

tional,

invited to meet in Washington.....

1422

Congressional Cemetery, D. C.,

certain restrictions on property repealed .. 1236

Congressional Directory,

appropriation for compiling.....

392, 938

Congressional Elections,

money contributions by corporations for,

prohibited ..

864

penalty..

865

Congressional Employees,

to receive December, 1905 , salaries Decem-

ber 20..

821

December, 1906 , salaries December 20 .. 1418

Congressional Library (see Library of Con-

gress). Congressional Record,

appropriation for reporting proceedings,

House of Representatives .

396, 942

Senate..

392, 938

for clerk in.charge, at the Capitol ..

943

for printing and binding.

759, 1366

address of Gen. Horace Porter at John Paul

Jones ceremonies to be printed in .. 829

Congressional Reference Library,

appropriation for custodian , etc ......... 397, 945

Conine, Charles,

pension increased .

1636

Conine, Fanny L. (widow),

pension increased ..

1886

Conklin, George,

pension increased.

1838

Conley, Carrie A. (widow),

pension increased

177)

Conley, Charles H.,

pension increased ..

1717

Conley, John A. ,

pension increased ..

1622

Conn, James L.,

pension increased .

2465

Conneaut, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1095 Connecticut,

may return certain ordnance purchased ...... 105

value to be credited to militia quota..

105

appropriation for..

106

Connecticut Avenue Bridge, D. C.,

appropriation for completing, across Rock Creek..
for paving approaches to .. time extended for completing.

492 1128 1128 .

"Connecticut," Battle Ship,

limit of cost increased ..

583

Connecticut River, Conn. ,

appropriation for lighting.

713, 1320

for improvement of, between Hartford

and Holyoke; surveys, etc .....

1075

below Hartford...

1077

preliminary examination of, to be made for

removing obstructions Eight Mile

River and East Branch ..

1112

Connell, John W.,

pension...

2265

Conner, William D.,

pension increased .

2071

INDEX.

3365

Connell, Willie, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to....
Connellsville, Pa.,

Page. 349

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized

784

appropriation for.

795

Connelly, Edmund T. , alias John Marks,

pension increased

1543

Connersville, Ind.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for.

794

Connery, Charles F.,

pension increased .

2578

Connor, Hilia Ann (widow), pension....
Connor, John, pension increased
Conover, Daniel S., pension increased

1436 · 1661 2209

Conrad, James M.,

pension increased .

1636

Consolidated Index to Statutes at Large,

deficiency appropriation for preparing .... 1395

Conspiracies in Restraint of Trade, etc., investigation ordered of, in coal or oil ..... 823

Constantinople, Turkey, classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for hire of steam launch for

embassy

289, 919

for purchase of legation buildings, etc... 293

for clerk hire, consulate-general at.... 294, 924 "Constituen." Frigate,

appropriation for restoring to original con-

dition, etc...

573

Constitution of the United States,

to be adopted by constitutional convention

of Arizona..

279

Oklahoma ..

269

Construction Plants, Navy- Yards,

appropriation for repairs and improve-

ments..

573, 1195

Consular Agents,

appointment of, when necessary..

100

receiving more than $ 1,000 a year not al-

lowed to  transact any private busi-

ness ...

101

Consular Clerks,

appropriation for salaries. compensation increased..

293, 923 923

Consular Courts,

jurisdiction of consuls in China , diminished 814 Consular Fees,

to be paid into the Treasury.

101

payment to consular agents from; maxi-

mum..

101

for certifying invoices to be prescribed by

the President .....

101

adhesive official stamps denoting, to be

affixed to all documents .

102

Consular Inspectors, appropriation for salaries... for expenses...

293, 929 293, 923

Consular Marshals,

appropriation for, in China, Korea, an

Turkey...

294, 925

Consular Officers,

appropriation for transportation ; allowance

for.....

288, 922

for paying heirs of, dying abroad .

290, 920

for bringing home from abroad , remains

of.

290, 920

deficiency appropriation for salaries ..

667

for transportation....

1372

Consular Officers Continued . receiving more than $ 1,000 a year forbidden to transact private business... notarial acts required of fees to be prescribed .. all fees to be turned into the Treasury . payment of consular agents from compensation of vice and deputy officers.. official stamps to be affixed to documents by... no act valid without .
Consular Regulations,
appropriation for rewriting .. Consular Service,
reorganization of.. consuls-general, classification and salaries . consuls, classification and salaries ...
vice and deputy officers.... temporary service of consuls as ..
consular agents continued .. commercial agents abolished .. consuls-general at large, authorized .
salary, appointment, duties .. powers; bond..
clerks receiving more than $1,000 a year to be American citizens ..

Page.
101 101 101 101 101 101
102 102
925
99 99 99 100 100 100 .100 100 100 100
101

business prohibitions extended to practice

of law..

101

may be extended to feed officers , etc ..

101,

notarial acts required ; fees ....

101

fees, official or unofficial, to be paid into

the Treasury ...

101

allowance to consular agents..

101

vice and deputy officers, additional com-

pensation ..

101

invoice fees to be prescribed by President. 101

documentary stamps required for official

acts ..

102

in effect June 30, 1906 ..

102

inconsistent laws repealed ..

102

Consulates,

appropriation for repairs to premises . 291, 921

for clerk hire.....

293, 923

maximum allowance increased .

294

for contingent expenses...

295, 926

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses ...

27, 635, 667, 1403

clerks receiving $ 1,000 a year or more must

be citizens...

101

Consuls , appropriation for salaries....

293, 923

duties of, in estates of deceased American

citizens in China ..

815

reports, etc. , to United States court..

815

new classification of......

99

may temporarily act as vice and deputy

officers..

100

prohibition against transacting business ex-

tended to practicing law..

101

Consuls-General,

appropriation for salaries.. new classification of...

293, 923 99

prohibition against transacting business ex-

tended to practicing law...

101

Consumptive Sanitarium,

lands granted to Minnesota for..

195

Consumptives' Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for erection, etc. , for indigent

tuberculosis patients....

511

Contagious Diseases,

appropriation for preventing introduction

of yellow fever and other.................

301

admission of aliens afflicted with loath-.

some, etc. , excluded ....

899

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -49

3366

INDEX.

Contagious Diseases-Continued.

Page.

importation of aliens with loathsome, etc. ,

unlawful; penalty....

901

decision of board of special inquiry, final . 901

Contagious Diseases, D. . ,

appropriation for preventing spread of.. 506, 1145

for isolating wards for minor.... 506, 1146

bodies of persons in public charge dying 

from, to be incinerated ....

123

crematorium for, etc ..

123

notice required of existence, etc. , of cer-

tain ..

889

persons responsible.

890

punishment for violations .

890

regulations authorized .

890

repeal of former laws..

890

Contentnia Creek, N. C. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1083

Contested Election Cases, House of Representa-

tives,

deficiency appropriation for allowances .. 661

for compiling testimony, etc..............

662

Contingent Expenses,
appropriation for Army . for foreign missions . for consulates ....

240, 1158 289, 919 295, 926

for Indian Service .. for Senate ....

331 , 1020 391 , 937

for House of Representatives . for Library of Congress .. for Executive Office ..

396, 942 399, 946 401, 947

for Department of State..

402, 949

for Treasury Department..

409, 956

for Auditor for Post-Office Department . 410, 957

for War Department.

421,966

for Navy Department.... for Interior Department..

427, 973 433, 979

for Civil Service Commission..

433, 979

for Post-Office Department .

439, 985

for Department of Justice . for Census Office...

441, 986 444, 989

for Department of Commerce and Labor 446 , 991

for Court of Claims..

448, 993

for District of Columbia...
for Department of Agriculture.. for Independent Treasury . for Fisheries Bureau...

488, 1125 692, 1277 706, 1312 720, 1328

for land offices ..

723, 1332

allotment of annual , to prevent deficien-

cies ....

49

waiver only for emergencies on written

order

49

penalty for violations ...

49

Contract Laborers,

admission of alien , excluded ..

899

Contract Surgeons, Army,

appropriation for.

245, 1163

for mileage..

246, 1163

deficiency appropriation for mileage..... 843

Contracts, D. C., retent on construction work to be held for

repairs ; term...

94

extended to buildings , etc.

929

bonds not required for, if less than $500 .. 546

Contracts, Government,

certified checks may be accepted on

guaranty for naval supplies..

841

limitation on all ; exception for Army and

Navy .

255

specific terms required to execute; involv-

ing amount exceeding appropria-

tions ...

764

work on river and harbor improvements

may be done by..

1110

Contracts in Restraint of Trade, etc., investigation ordered of, in coal or oil....
Controller Bay, Alaska, construction of trestle authorized from Whale Island to mainland of..

Page. 823
803

Convention ofthe Protestant Episcopal Church of the Diocese of Washington,

powers and authority of corporation

amended..

875

Conventions (see also Treaties),
Alaskan boundary, with Great Britain.. copyright, with Japan . extradition, with Great Britain, crimes
added with Japan, crimes added . irrigation, with Mexico .. parcels-post, with Australia with Bermuda with Denmark with Ecuador with Peru .... with Sweden postal, with Panama . trade-marks, with Roumania Converse, James E., pension increased.

2948 2887
2903 2951 2953 2872 2983 2965 2974 2957 2889 2879 2901
2551

Convicts, D. C.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of, out of

the District ..

508, 1148

deficiency appropriation for support , etc.. 1379

Conway, Silas P.,

pension increased .

2031

Conwell, Hugh,

payment to.

2661

Conwell, William,

pension increased

2627

Conyngham, John R.,

pension increased ..

2260

Cook, Adam,

pension increased .

1620

Cook County, Ill.,

status of prior naturalization records, etc. ,

of criminal court of....

631

Cook, E. W.,

payment to.

2661

Cook, Eunice (widow),

pension increased.

2382

Cook, George W. ,

pension increased

2708

Cook, John, Indian War,

pension increased .

1756

Cook, John, West Virginia Volunteers,

pension increased .

1537

Cook, John T.,

pension increased ..

1767

Cook, Joseph F. ,

pension increased

2195

Cook, Lutellus,

pension increased

1788

Cook, Nelson,

pension increased

1823

Cook, Newton G.,

pension increased

1859

Cook, Philip,

pension increased .

1961

Cook, Pleasant W.,

pension increased

2032

Cook, Samuel,

pension increased

2275

Cook, Sidney H.,

pension increased .

2150

Cook, Stephen H. S.,

pension increased .

2455

INDEX.

3367

Cook, Taingena, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Cook, Thomas H. , pension increased .
Cook, William, pension increased
Cool, Benjamin H., pension increased
Cooley, Adolphus, pension increased .
Cooley, Franklin, pension increased
Cooley, George L., pension increased .
Cooley, Henrietta C. (widow), pension increased .
Cooley, Marius S., pension increased .
Coomer, Justus B., pension increased .
Cooney, Patrick, pension increased .
Cooper, Alonzo, pension increased ..
Cooper, Daniel H. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to...
Cooper, Henry, Indian Allottee. fee-simple title to ...
Cooper Island, Cass Lake, Minn..
granted to Minnesota for public park or State forest reserve ..
Cooper, John, pension increased .
Cooper, Joseph J., pension increased .
Cooper, Nathaniel, pension increased .
Cooper, Seth H., pension increased .
Cooper, William T., pension increased .
Coos Bay, Oreg. , preliminary examination to be made of, and bar entrance...
Coos River, Oreg., appropriation for improvement of.........
Coosa River, Ga. and Ala., appropriation for improvement of..... bridge authorized across, at Talladega, Ala . completion and use of Lock No. 4 , authorized, conditions ... dam, etc., authorized at Lock and Dam No. 12 .....
dams across, near Lock No. 2, authorized , by riparian owners ..
preliminary examination of, to be made.. for Dam No. 5 ....
at Horseleg Shoals.. Coover, Samuel E.,
pension increased .
Cope, Isaac (son), pension
Copenhagen, Denmark, classification and salary of consul-general ..
Copher, Reuben, pension increased
Coppage, Joseph W. , pension increased .
Copper River, Alaska, bridge authorized across, at Childs Glacier.
Copra, duty on, Philippines tariff..
Copyright Convention, with Japan...

Page. 356 2527 1696
2043 2526 1998 1638 2711 1912 2447 2713 2230 380 380
352 2503 1566 1522 1930 2708
1116 1107 1085 884 211 1288 183 1111 1111 1112 2452 2011
99 2588 1891 804
26 2887

Copyright Office,

Page.

appropriation for register clerks, etc .... 399, 945

for printing and binding....

761, 1368

for Catalogue of Title Entries of the .. 761, 1368

Copyrights,

proclamation extending to citizens of Nor-

way benefits of..

3111

protection of matter in " Rules and Speci-

fications for Grading Lumber, etc." .

Coquille Forest Reserve, Oreg. ,

proclamation establishing...

..

Coquille River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of.........

preliminary examination of, to be made ..

Coraopolis and Osborne Bridge Company, may bridge Ohio River, Pa ..

836
3299
1107 1116 538

Coraopolis , Pa.,

bridge authorized across Ohio River to Os-

borne from.....

538

Corbett, P. S., credit in accounts ..

2313

Corbett, Wiley,

payment to.

2663

Corbin, Daniel O.,

pension increased .

2330

Corcoran Gallery of Art, D. C. ,

refund of taxes..

869

Cordner, Albert D.,

pension increased .

1658

Corea (see Korea) .

Corey, George L.,

pension increased .

2713

Corinth and Shiloh Electric Railway Company,

granted right of way through Shiloh Na-

tional Park..

388

Cork, Ireland, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire..

100 294, 924

Corley, William B., pension increased .

.:. 2570

Cornelius, Adam P. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..

381 .

Cornelius, Alice, Indian Allottee,

fee simple title to..

380

Cornelius, Alice, Indian Allottee,

fee simple title to..

381

Cornelius, Frank, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

381

Cornelius, Joshua, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ...

380

Cornelius, William, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

380

Cornell, Charles H.,

may dam Niobrara River, Nebr..

297

granted right of way for trolley line. Fort

Niobrara Military Reservation,

Nebr .

297

Cornell, Nelson,

pension increased

2547

Corner, Watson L., pension increased

2734

Cornett, Clark,

pension increased .

2017

Corning, N. Y.,

construction of public building author-

ized at .

777

appropriation for.

791, 1297

Cornman, Phillip W.,

pension increased .

1511

Corns, Mary T. (widow), pension increased .
Cornwall, Ontario,
classification and salary of consul ...................... Cornwell, John S.,
pension increased .

2012 100 2504

3368

INDEX .

Coroner's Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries . for expenses...

Page. 484, 1121 489, 1126

deficiency appropriation for deputy's

services .

640, 1376

for expenses..

.640, 1376

Corporation Common Carrier,

liable for violations of interstate com-

merce regulations..

587

Corporation Counsel's Office, P. C. , appropriation for salaries..
for rent of office..

484, 1121 1125

for assistant, condemning land for alleys,

etc....

1128

to prosecute violations of veterinary regu-

lations...

873

Corporations,

liable for violations of Pure Food Act, by

officers, agents, etc ...

772

money contributions prohibited by national banks and Federal corpora-

tions for political elections .

864

by ether, at Federal elections ..

864

penalty..

865

Corporations Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner, clerks,

etc...

442, 987

for special attorneys, etc..

442, 987

Corporations, D. C. (see also Incorporations ,

D. C. ) ,

charter amended , Masonic Mutual Relief

Association ......

214

Grand Lodge Independent Order of Odd

Fellows may sell Odd Fellows Hall,

etc...

614

service on foreign, may be on employee..

874

Supreme Lodge, Knights of Pythias ; prop-

erty holdings increased ...

934

Corpus Christi, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of Turtle

Cove Channel from Aransas Pass to;

contracts.....

1091

Corsicana, Tex.,

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1297

Corsine, Calvin,

pension increased

2208

Corwin, Quincy,

pension increased

1870

Cory, Abraham M.,

pension...

1450

Coscob, Conn.,

preliminary examination of charbor to be

made ..

1112

Cosgro, James C. ,

pension increased .

2798

Cosgrove, Carrie E. (widow), pension increased`

2504

Cosgrove, James W.,

pension increased .

2495

Costa Rica, Nicaragua and, appropriation for minister to.. for secretary of legation..

286, 916 287, 917

Costinett, Carrie E. (widow) ,

pension..

1829

Cotten, Aurelia (widow) ,

pension...

1663

Cotton Boll Weevil, Mexican,

appropriation for emergency fund to meet

spread of...

695, 1280

Cotton Crop Condition Reports,

Page.

to be issued the same day as ginners' re-

ports....

691, 1276

Cotton Products,

appropriation for investigation of foreign

markets for..

442

Cotton, John R. ,

pension increased .

1620

Cotton Statistics,

appropriation for collecting, by Census

Office...

443, 989

Cotton Textiles,

modification of Philippine customs tax on.. 24

Cottrell, George,

payment to .

2661

Cottrill, Cassy (widow),

pension...

..... 1819

Coudrey, Hon. H. M.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses..

661

Coughanour, George W.,

pension increased.

1855

Coughlin, John, pension increased ....
Coulson, Saul, pension increased .

1972 2363

Coulter, John A. ,

pension increased .

1512

Coulton, Andrew J. , alias Samuel Myers,

pension increased.

1654

Council Bluffs, Iowa,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

774

appropriation for.

790

Council City, Alaska,

appropriation for survey of trail from Fair-

hanks to...

316

Council City and Solomon River Railroad Com-·

pany,

time extended for completing railroad in

Alaska by; license fee deferred ... 6, 1225

Counter, Octave,

pension increased.

1856

Counterfeiting, etc., Crimes, appropriation for suppressing...

708, 1314

deficiency appropriation for suppressing.. 1401

Countryman, Joseph, pension increased .

2654

Counts, Mary A. ( widow) , pension increased .......

2124

Coursoll , Cecilia, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Coursoll , Joseph, jr., Indian' Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Coursoll, Mary, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Court-House, D. C., appropriation for care, etc.... for repairs; elevators ... for file cases, clerk's office ..

508, 1148 750, 1357
1148

for repairing, etc. , old circuit court rec-

ords ..

1148

deficiency appropriation for repairs..

40

Court of Appeals, D. C.,

appropriation for justices, clerks, etc.... 447, 992

for reporter; expenses...

447,992

for reports of decisions .:.

507, 1146

177

deficiency appropriation for stenographers

to justices..

41

to hear appeals from juvenile court..

77

Court of Arbitration, International Bureau, Permanent,

appropriation for share of expenses ...... 291 , 921

INDEX.

3369

Court of Claims, D. C.,

Page.

appropriation for judges, clerks, etc..... 448, 993

for auditors, etc..

448, 993

for contingent expenses..

448, 993

for reporting decisions ..

448, 993

for pay of custodian .

993

for alterations, etc., to building . for printing and binding...

750 761, 1368

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses..

40

for paying judgments of. Cherokee claims ..

44, 664, 1400 664

for judgments Indian depredation

claims...

44, 664, 1400

for printing and binding..

1398

Lucien B. Howry may be appointed an

auditor..

1390

to determine amount to attorneys in claims

of Cherokee intermarried whites .... 340

Colville Reservation cession..

378

to determine claim of Joseph P. T. Fish for .

allotment as Shawnee minor child ... 344

S. W. Peel for services to Choctaw Na-

tion

2415

Peter P. Pitchlynn's heirs against Choc-

taws..

345

Esther Rousseau ..

2408

Sisseton and Wahpeton Sioux for for-

feited annuities...

372

Snare and Trist Company

2567

Vann and Adair against Osages .

365

to determine damages for lands, etc., taken

for new canal at Saint Marys Falls,

Mich..

1099

to hear claims of estate of Charles F. Winton

against Mississippi Choctaws...

140

1 claims of Sac and Fox Indians in Iowa

against Sac and Fox Indians in Okla-

homa and the United States...

1055

to hear Indian dépredation claim of John B. Brown..
John C. Lynch ..
Augustus Trabing. suit of Cherokees in, to determine validity
of laws as to alienation restrictions, etc. , authorized .. appeals; attorneys, fees.. Courter, William J., pension increased .

2411 2411 2311
1028 1028
2550

Courts (see United States Courts). Courts-Martial, Army,

appropriation for expenses . Covell, Thomas G.,
pension increased .

245, 1163 1690

Cowan, Campbell, pension increased .
Cowan, Garrett F., pension increased .

2568 2734

Cowan, Henry R.,

pension increased .

1964

Cowan, John,

pension increased .

2557

Coward, Nathan,

pension increased .

1787

Cowell, James L., pension increased .
Cowell, Oscar N. , pension increased .
Cowgill, Alexander M., pension increased .
Cowlitz River, Wash. ,

1448 2777 2453

appropriation for improvement of.....

1108

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1118

Cox, Columbus,

pension increased .

... 2206

Cox, Hartley B., pension increased .

Page. 2021

Cox, Hugh M.

pension increased

2584

Cox, James,

payment to..

2661

Cox, James B.,

pension increased

1767

Cox, James D.,
pension increased . Cox, Jannie, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to Cox, Joanna L. (widow),
pension increased . Cox, Leonard Martin,

2538 357 2319

may be restored as civil engineer, Navy ... 1407

Cox, Wesley G. ,

pension increased

2045

Coy, Edward,

pension increased

1466

Coyle, Catherine (widow),

pension....

1657

Coyle, John B.,

pension increased

2266

Coyner, Frances (widow),

pension..

1759

Crab Island, Lake Champlain,

appropriation for marking graves of sol-

diers and sailors on..

258

Crabtree, Job B.,

pension increased .

2247

Craig, Daniel,

pension increased .

1880

Craig, Franklin,

pension increased

2682

Craig, John B. ,

pension increased

1746

Craig, Thomas C.,

pension increased .

1780

Craighton, Solomon,

pension increased

2262

Craigo, Margaret E. (widow),

pension increased

2706

Cramer, Andrew,

pension increased

2601

Cramer, Peter,

pension increased

2211

Crampton, David F.,

pension increased ..

1837

Crandall, Thomas P.,

pension increased .

2080

Crandell, Henry,

pension increased..

1694

Crandol, James,

pension increased .

2044

Crane, John H.,

pension increased .

1709

Crane, John W.,

pension increased.

2668

Crane, William,

pension increased ..

2472

Crane, William B. ,

pension increased .

2398

Crane, William J.,

pension...

2814

Cranford, John W. , late a Representative,

printing of eulogies on, authorized ...

826

Cranston, William H.,

pension increased..

1440

Crater Lake National Park, appropriation for management, etc ..... 729, 1337

Cravens, Benjamin B.,

pension increased ..

2726

Cravens, John O.,

pension increased..

2773

3364

INDEX .

Compulsory Education, D. C. (see Education Page. Congress-Continued .

Page.

of Children, D. C. , Compulsory) .
Comstock, Franklin, pension increased .

deficiency appropriation for extra month's

pay to employees ..

660, 1394

2630

for Robert Brent Mosher.

660

Conant, A. Judson,

pension increased .

2789

Conant, Etta D. (widow),

pension increased .

1700

Conant, Henry A.,

pension increased .

2223

Concessions, Railway, etc.,

penalty for giving or receiving ..

587

Concord, N. C.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

783

appropriation for....

795

CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS (see PART 2) .

adjournment of, ordered for June 30 , 1906. 2835

holiday recess ordered for 1905 .

2829

for 1906 ..

2837

may fix diversion of waters of Great Lakes

or Niagara River..

626

Congress of Hygiene and Demography, Interna-

tional,

invited to meet in Washington.....

1422

Congressional Cemetery, D. C.,

certain restrictions on property repealed .. 1236

Congressional Directory,

appropriation for compiling .....

392, 938

Congressional Elections,

Condemnation of Insanitary Buildings, D. C. , board for, created ; composition ; powers, etc....
meetings; inspection of premises . orders of condemnation ; vacation of build-
ings, etc... repairs; demolition, etc.

money contributions by corporations for,

prohibited ..

864

157

penalty..

865

157 Congressional Employees,

to receive December, 1905 , salaries Decem-

157

ber 20.

821

158

December, 1906 , salaries December 20 .. 1418

premises in litigation, etc.

158

service of notice ..

159

interference with inspection, removing or-

ders, etc. , forbidden ..

159

punishment for violations ..

160

legal proceedings for vacating orders, etc.. 160

award of damages; evidence admitted .. 160

payment of expenses ..

161

Condemnation of Streets, etc. , D. C. ,

appropriation for..

491, 1128

Condemned Cannon,

loaned to Petoskey, Mich ..

1293

Preston, Iowa..

1422

Condiment,

Congressional Library (see Library of Con-

gress). Congressional Record,

appropriation for reporting proceedings,

House of Representatives ..

396, 942

Senate..

392, 938

for clerk in.charge , at the Capitol ..

943

for printing and binding ..

759, 1366

address of Gen. Horace Porter at John Paul

Jones ceremonies to be printed in .. 829

Congressional Reference Library,

appropriation for custodian , etc ......... 397, 945

Conine, Charles,

pension increased

1636

articles used for, included as "food " in

Conine, Fanny L. (widow),

Pure Food Act ........

769 pension increased ..

1886

Conduits, D. C. ,

Conklin, George,

under Seventh street from Center Market

pension increased .

1838

for refrigeration extended .....

93 Conley, Carrie A. (widow),

Conecuh River, Ala. ,

pension increased .

1771

appropriation for improvement of..................... 1087 Conley, Charles H. ,

Conecuh River, Fla. and Ala.,

pension increased .

1717

appropriation for improvement of....

1087 Conley, John A. ,

Coney Island Channel, New York Harbor,

pension increased .

1622

appropriation for improvement of..

1077 Conn, James L.,

survey of, ordered .....

538 pension increased .

2465

Confectionery,

Conneaut, Ohio,

included as "food " in Pure Food Act ..... 769 appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1095

Confederate Battle Flags ,

Connecticut,

delivery to Confederate Memorial Literary

Society, Richmond , Va. , of uni-

dentified .

837

may return certain ordnance purchased ... 105

value to be credited to militia quota... 105

appropriation for..

106

Confederate Soldiers, deficiency appropriation for claims for property taken from.......
Confederate Soldiers and Sailors, graves of, who died in northern prisons or hospitals, to be located , etc .. headstones, care , etc.
appropriation for expenses . commissioner to be appointed ; duties,
salary, etc .. Congaree River, S. C. ,
appropriation for improvement of; extension .

1 Connecticut Avenue Bridge, D. C. ,

appropriation for completing, across Rock

1381

Creek .

492

for paving approaches to ..
66 time extended for completing . 56 Connecticut," Battle Ship, 56 limit of cost increased .

1128 1128 .
583

56 Connecticut River, Conn.,

appropriation for lighting .

713, 1320

56

for improvement of, between Hartford

and Holyoke ; surveys, etc ....

1075

below Hartford.........

1077

1084 preliminary examination of, to be made for

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1116

Congdon, Caroline W. (widow'),

pension increased .

2529

Congress,

appropriation for printing and binding

for....

759, 1366

removing obstructions Eight Mile

River and East Branch..

1112

Connell, John W.,

pension..

2265

Conner, William D.,

pension increased ....

2071

INDEX.

3365

Connell, Willie, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Connellsville, Pa.,

Page. 349

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized

784

appropriation for.

795

Connelly, Edmund T. , alias John Marks,

pension increased ...

1543

Connersville, Ind.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized...

782

appropriation for.

794

Connery, Charles F.,

pension increased .

2578

Connor, Hilia Ann (widow),

pension..

1436

Connor, John,

pension increased .

1661

Conover, Daniel S.,

pension increased

2209

Conrad, James M.,

pension increased .

1636

Consolidated Index to Statutes at Large,

deficiency appropriation for preparing.... 1395
Conspiracies in Restraint of Trade, etc., investigation ordered of, in coal or oil..... 823

Constantinople, Turkey, classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for hire of steam launch for

embassy

289, 919

for purchase of legation buildings , etc... 293
for clerk hire, consulate-general at.... 294, 924 " Constitution," Frigate,

appropriation for restoring to original con-

dition, etc..

573

Constitution of the United States,

to be adopted by constitutional convention

of Arizona.

279

Oklahoma....

269

Construction Plants, Navy- Yards,

appropriation for repairs and improve-

ments ..

573, 1195

Consular Agents,

appointment of, when necessary..

100

receiving more than $ 1,000 a year not al-

lowed to transact any private busi-

ness .

101

Consular Clerks, appropriation for salaries.. compensation increased..
Consular Courts,

293, 923 923

jurisdiction of consuls in China, diminished 814 Consular Fees,

to be paid into the Treasury..

101

payment to consular agents from; maxi-

mum..

101

for certifying invoices to be prescribed by

the President....

101

adhesive official stamps denoting, to be

affixed to all documents .

102

Consular Inspectors, appropriation for salaries .. for expenses .......
Consular Marshals,

293, 923 293, 923

appropriation for, in China, Korea, an

Turkey...

294, 925

Consular Officers,

appropriation for transportation ; allowance

for....

288,922

· for paying heirs of, dying abroad .

290, 920

for bringing home from abroad; remains

of.

290, 920

deficiency appropriation for salaries ..

667

for transportation....

1372

Consular Officers-Continued. receiving more than $1,000 a year forbidden to transact private business.. notarial acts required of . fees to be prescribed .. all fees to be turned into the Treasury payment of consular agents from compensation of vice and deputy officers.. official stamps to be affixed to documents
by.. no act valid without ..

Page.
101 101 101 101 101 101
102 102

Consular Regulations,

appropriation for rewriting .

925

Consular Service,

reorganization of..

99

consuls-general, classification and salaries. 99

consuls, classification and salaries ...

99

vice and deputy officers...

100

temporary service of consuls as..

100

consular agents continued ...

100

commercial agents abolished .

.100

consuls-general at large, authorized .

100

salary, appointment, duties ..

100

powers; bond ..

100

clerks receiving more than $1,000 a year to

be American citizens ..

101

business prohibitions extended to practice

of law..

101

may be extended to feed officers, etc.

101

notarial acts required ; fees...

101

fees, official or unofficial, to be paid into

the Treasury..

101

allowance to consular agents.

101

vice and deputy officers, additional com-

pensation..

101

invoice fees to be prescribed by President. 101

documentary stamps required for official

acts ..

102

in effect June 30 , 1906 .

102

inconsistent laws repealed .

102

Consulates, appropriation for repairs to premises . for clerk hire.... maximum allowance increased . for contingent expenses...

291 , 921 293, 923
294 295, 926

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses..

27, 635, 667, 1403

clerks receiving $1,000 a year or more must

be citizens ..

101

Consuls , appropriation for salaries.....

293, 923

duties of, in estates of deceased American

citizens in China...

815

reports, etc. , to United States court:

815

new classification of...

99

may temporarily act as vice and deputy

officers...

100

prohibition against transacting business ex-

tended to practicing law....

101

Consuls-General, appropriation for salaries. new classification of..

293, 923 99 .

prohibition against transacting business ex-

tended to practicing law.....

101

Consumptive Sanitarium,.

lands granted to Minnesota for........................

195

Consumptives' Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for erection, etc. , for indigent

tuberculosis patients....

511

Contagious Diseases,

appropriation for preventing introduction

of yellow fever and other....

301

admission of aliens afflicted with loath-.

some, etc. , excluded ..

899

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -49

3366

INDEX.

Contagious Diseases-Continued.
importation of aliens with loathsome, etc. , unlawful; penalty...
decision of board of special inquiry, final . Contagious Diseases, D. C.,

Page.
· 901 901

appropriation for preventing spread of.. 506, 1145

for isolating wards for minor..

506, 1146

bodies of persons in public charge dying

from , to be incinerated ..

123

crematorium for, etc.....

123

notice required of existence, etc. , of cer-

tain ..

889

persons responsible.

890

punishment for violations ..

890

regulations authorized .

890

repeal of former laws...

890

Contentnia Creek, N. C.,

·

appropriation for improvement of........ 1083

Contested Election Cases, House of Representa-

tives,

deficiency appropriation for allowances .. 661

for compiling testimony, etc.....

662

Contingent Expenses,
appropriation for Army . for foreign missions .. for consulates .....

240, 1158
289, 919 295, 926

for Indian Service. for Senate ....

331 , 1020 391, 937

for House of Representatives.. for Library of Congress..

396, 942 399, 946

for Executive Office... for Department of State.

401 , 947 402, 949

for Treasury Department..

409, 956

for Auditor for Post-Office Department . 410, 957

for War Department... for Navy Department.. for Interior Department.. for Civil Service Commission ..

421, 966 427, 973
433, 979 433, 979

for Post-Office Department.. for Department of Justice.. for Census Office.....

439, 985 441 , 986 444, 989

for Department of Commerce and Labor 446, 991

for Court of Claims...

448, 993

for District of Columbia.. for Department of Agriculture.

488, 1125 692, 1277

for Independent Treasury. for Fisheries Bureau...

706, 1312 720, 1328

for land offices ...

723, 1332

allotment of annual, to prevent deficien-

cies .....

49

waiver only for emergencies on written

order

49

penalty for violations ..

49

Contract Laborers,

admission of alien , excluded ....

899

Contract Surgeons, Army,
appropriation for.. for mileage..
deficiency appropriation for mileage .

245, 1163 246 , 1163
843

Contracts, D. C., retent on construction work to be held for

repairs; term ..

94

extended to buildings, etc

929

bonds not required for, if less than $500 .. 546

Contracts, Government,

certified checks may be accepted on

guaranty for naval supplies....

841

limitation on all ; exception for Army and

Navy....

255

specific terms required to execute; involv-

ing amount exceeding appropria-

tions ...

764

work on river and harbor improvements

may be done by......

1110

Contracts in Restraint of Trade, etc.,
investigation ordered of, in coal or oil .... Controller Bay, Alaska,
construction of trestle authorized from Whale Island to mainland of....

Page. 823
803

Convention ofthe Protestant Episcopal Church

ofthe Diocese of Washington,

powers and authority of corporation

amended ..

875

Conventions (see also Treaties),

Alaskan boundary, with Great Britain .... 2948

copyright , with Japan

2887

extradition, with Great Britain, added
with Japan, crimes added . irrigation, with Mexico ... parcels-post, with Australia .
with Bermuda
with Denmark with Ecuador with Peru... with Sweden postal, with Panama trade-marks, with Roumania

crimes

2903 2951 2953 2872 2983 2965 2974 2957 2889 2879 2901

Converse, James E.,

pension increased

2551

Convicts, D. C.,

appropriation for support, etc., of, out of

the District..

508, 1148

deficiency appropriation for support, etc .. 1379

Conway, Silas P.,

pension increased .

2031

Conwell, Hugh,

payment to .

2661

Conwell, William,

pension increased ..

2627

Conyngham, John R.,

pension increased .

2260

Cook, Adam ,

pension increased .

1620

Cook County, Ill.,

status of prior naturalization records, etc.,

of criminal court of.....

631

Cook, E. W.,

payment to...

2661

Cook, Eunice (widow),

pension increased .

2382

Cook, George W.,

pension increased

2708

Cook, John, Indian War, pension increased ...

... 1756

Cook, John, West Virginia Volunteers,

pension increased .

1537

Cook, John T.,

pension increased .

1767

Cook, Joseph F.,

pension increased .

2195

Cook, Lutellus,

pension increased .

1788

Cook, Nelson,

pension increased .

1823

Cook, Newton G.,

pension increased .

1859

Cook, Philip,

pension increased .

1961

Cook, Pleasant W.,

pension increased .

2032

Cook, Samuel,

pension increased .

2275

Cook, Sidney H.,

pension increased .

2150

Cook, Stephen H. S.,

pension increased .

2455

INDEX .

3367

Cook, Taingena, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to...
Cook, Thomas H., pension increased

Page. 356
2527

Cook, William, pension increased
Cool, Benjamin H., pension increased
Cooley, Adolphus, pension increased
Cooley, Franklin, pension increased .
Cooley, George L., pension increased .

1696 2043 2526 1998 1638

Cooley, Henrietta C. (widow),

pension increased .

2711

Cooley, Marius S.,

pension increased .

1912

Coomer, Justus B.,

pension increased .

2447

Cooney, Patrick,

pension increased .

2713

Cooper, Alonzo,

pension increased .

2230

Cooper, Daniel H. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

380

Cooper, Henry, Indian Allottee.

fee-simple title to...

380

Cooper Island, Cass Lake, Minn..

granted to Minnesota for public park or

State forest reserve..

352

Cooper, John,

pension increased .

2503

Cooper, Joseph J.,

pension increased .

1566

Cooper, Nathaniel,

pension increased .

1522

Cooper, Seth H.,

pension increased

1930

Cooper, William T.,

pension increased .

2708

Coos Bay, Oreg. ,

preliminary examination to be made of,

and bar entrance ...

1116

Coos River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1107

Coosa River, Ga. and Ála. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1085

bridge authorized across, at Talladega, Ala. 884

completion and use of Lock No. 4, author-

ized, conditions..

211

dam, etc., authorized at Lock and Dam .

No. 12 ...

1288

dams across, near Lock No. 2, authorized ,

by riparian owners .

183

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 1111

for Dam No. 5 ........

1111

at Horseleg Shoals .

1112

Coover, Samuel E.,

pension increased .

2452

Cope, Isaac (son),

pension .

2011

Copenhagen, Denmark,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

Copher, Reuben,

pension increased

2588

Coppage, Joseph W.,

pension increased

1891

Copper River, Alaska, bridge authorized across, at Childs Glacier . 804

Copra,

duty on, Philippines tariff..

26

Copyright Convention, with Japan...

2887

Copyright Office,

Page.

appropriation for register clerks, etc .... 399, 945

for printing and binding..

761, 1368

for Catalogue of Title Entries of the .. 761, 1368

Copyrights,

proclamation extending to citizens of Nor-

way benefits of...

3111

protection of matter in " Rules and Specifications for Grading Lumber, etc." . 836

Coquille Forest Reserve, Oreg., proclamation establishing...
Coquille River, Oreg., appropriation for improvement of....

.. 3299 1107

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1116

Coraopolis and Osborne Bridge Company,

may bridge Ohio River, Pa ....

538

Coraopolis , Pa.,

bridge authorized across Ohio River to Os-

borne from....

538

Corbett, P. S.,

credit in accounts.

2313

Corbett, Wiley,

payment to..

2663

Corbin, Daniel O.,

pension increased .

2330

Corcoran Gallery of Art, D. C.,

refund of taxes..

869

Cordner, Albert D. ,

pension increased .

1658

Corea (see Korea) .

Corey, George L.,

pension increased

2713

Corinth and Shiloh Electric Railway Company,

granted right of way through Shiloh Na-

tional Park.....

388

Cork, Ireland,
classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire..... Corley, William B. , pension increased .

100 294, 924
2570

Cornelius, Adam P. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to...

381 .

Cornelius, Alice, Indian Allottee,

fee simple title to ..

380

Cornelius, Alice, Indian Allottee,

fee simple title to..

381

Cornelius, Frank, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

381

Cornelius, Joshua, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ....

380

Cornelius, William, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ...

380

Cornell, Charles H.,

may dam Niobrara River, Nebr ...

297

granted right of way for trolley line. Fort Niobrara Military Reservation,

Nebr..

297

Cornell, Nelson,

pension increased

2547

Corner, Watson L.,

pension increased .

2734

Cornett, Clark,

pension increased .

2017

Corning, N. Y. ,

construction of public ized at
appropriation for .
Cornman, Phillip W., pension increased

building

author777
791, 1297
1511

Corns, Mary T. (widow),

pension increased .

2012

Cornwall, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul ............. 100

Cornwell, John S.,

pension increased

2504

3368

INDEX.

Coroner's Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries .
for expenses..

Page. 484, 1121 489, 1126

deficiency appropriation for deputy's

services .

640, 1376

for expenses..

.640, 1376

Corporation Common Carrier, liable for violations of interstate
merce regulations... Corporation Counsel's Office, P. C.,
appropriation for salaries.. for rent of office ..

com587
484, 1121 1125

for assistant, condemning land for alleys,

etc ..

1128

to prosecute violations of veterinary regu-

lations ..

873

Corporations ,

liable for violations of Pure Food Act, by

officers, agents, etc..

772

money contributions prohibited by national banks and Federal corpora-

tions for political elections

864

by other, at Federal elections..

864

penalty..

865

Corporations Bureau, Department of Com-

merce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner, clerks,

- etc ...

442, 987

for special attorneys, etc..

442, 987

Corporations, D. C. (see also Incorporations, D. C. ),

charter amended , Masonic Mutual Relief

Association.....

214

Grand Lodge Independent Order of Odd

Fellows may sell Odd Fellows Hall,

etc...

614

service on foreign, may be on employee..

874

Supreme Lodge, Knights of Pythias ; prop-

erty holdings increased.

934

Corpus Christi, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of Turtle

Cove Channel from Aransas Pass to;

contracts...

1091

Corsicana, Tex. ,

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized...

781

appropriation for..

794, 1297

Corsine, Calvin,

pension increased .

2208

Corwin, Quincy,

pension increased .

1870

Cory, Abraham M. ,

pension...

1450

Coscob, Conn.,

preliminary examination of charbor to be

made ....

1112

Cosgro, James C.,

pension increased .

2798

Cosgrove, Carrie E. (widow), pension increased.

2504

Cosgrove, James W.,

pension increased .

2495

Costa Rica, Nicaragua and, appropriation for minister to ..
for secretary of legation..

286, 916 287, 917

Costinett, Carrie E. (widow) ,

pension..

1829

Cotten, Aurelia (widow),

pension...

1663

Cotton Boll Weevil, Mexican,

appropriation for emergency fund to meet

spread of....

695, 1280

Cotton Crop Condition Reports,

Page.

to be issued the same day as ginners' re-

ports..... Cotton Products,

691, 1276

appropriation for investigation of foreign

markets for.

442

Cotton, John R.,

pension increased

1620

Cotton Statistics,

appropriation for collecting, by Census

Office...

443, 989

Cotton Textiles,

modification of Philippine customs tax on.. 24

Cottrell, George,

payment to..

2661

Cottrill, Cassy (widow),

pension..

1819

Coudrey, Hon. H. M.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses...

661

Coughanour, George W.,

pension increased .

1855

Coughlin, John,

pension increased .

1972

Coulson, Saul,

pension increased .

2363

Coulter, John A. ,

pension increased .

1512

Coulton, Andrew J. , alias Samuel Myers,

pension increased .

1654

Council Bluffs, Iowa,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized .

774

appropriation for.

790

Council City, Alaska,

appropriation for survey of trail from Fair-

banks to...

316

Council City and Solomon River Railroad Com-·

pany,

time extended for completing railroad in

Alaska by; license fee deferred ... 6, 1225

Counter, Octave,

pension increased .

1856

Counterfeiting, etc. , Crimes, appropriation for suppressing.... .... 708, 1314
deficiency appropriation for suppressing .. 1401

Countryman, Joseph,

pension increased .

2654

Counts, Mary A. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2124

Coursoll, Cecilia, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Coursoll, Joseph, jr. , Indian' Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Coursoll, Mary, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

357

Court- House, D. C., appropriation for care, etc... for repairs; elevators .. for file cases, clerk's office .

508, 1148 750, 1357
1148

for repairing, etc. , old circuit court rec-

ords .

1148

deficiency appropriation for repairs.

40

Court of Appeals, D. C.,

appropriation for justices, clerks, etc .... 447, 992

for reporter; expenses...

447, 992

for reports of decisions.:.

507, 1146

deficiency appropriation for stenographers

to justices..

41

to hear appeals from juvenile court..

77

Court of Arbitration, International Bureau, Permanent,
appropriation for share of expenses ...... 291 , 921

' INDEX.

3369

Court of Claims, D. C., appropriation for judges, clerks, etc .. for auditors, etc .. for contingent expenses. for reporting decisions..
for pay of custodian... for alterations, etc., to building . for printing and binding..

Page. 448, 993
448, 993 448, 993
448, 993 993
750 761, 1368

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses...

40

for paying judgments of.. Cherokee claims..

44, 664, 1400 664

for judgments Indian depredation

claims ...

44, 664, 1400

for printing and binding..

1398

Lucien B. Howry may be appointed an

auditor..

1390

to determine amount to attorneys in claims

of Cherokee intermarried whites.. 340

Colville Reservation cession...

378

to determine claim of Joseph P. T. Fish for

allotment as Shawnee minor child ... 344

S. W. Peel for services to Choctaw Na-

tion

2415

Peter P. Pitchlynn's heirs against Choc-

taws ...

345

Esther Rousseau..

2408

Sisseton and Wahpeton Sioux for forfeited annuities..
Snare and Trist Company Vann and Adair against sages. to determine damages for lands, etc., taken

372
2567 365

for new canal at Saint Marys Falls,

Mich.

1099

to hear claims of estate of Charles F. Winton

against Mississippi Choctaws.... 1 140 claims of Sac and Fox Indians in Iowa

against Sac and Fox Indians in Okla-

homa and the United States....

1055

to hear Indian depredation claim of John

B. Brown ..

2411

John C. Lynch .
Augustus Trabing. suit of Cherokees in, to determine validity
of laws as to alienation restrictions, etc. , authorized ..
appeals; attorneys, fees . Courter, William J.,
pension increased . Courts (see United States Courts) . Courts- Martial, Army,

2411 2311
1028 1028
2550

appropriation for expenses..
Covell, Thomas G., pension increased .

245, 1163 1690

Cowan, Campbell,

pension increased

2568

Cowan, Garrett F. ,

pension increased.

2734

Cowan, Henry R., pension increased .
Cowan, John, pension increased .
Coward, Nathan, pension increased .

1964 2557 1787

Cowell, James L.,

pension increased

1448

Cowell, Oscar N. ,

pension increased .

2777

Cowgill, Alexander M. ,

pension increased .

2453

Cowlitz River, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

1108

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1118

Cox, Columbus,

-

pension increased .

2206

Cox, Hartley B. , pension increased .
Cox, Hugh M. pension increased .

Page. 2021
2584

Cox, James,

payment to.

2661

Cox, James B. ,

pension increased

1767

Cox, James D., pension increased
Cox, Jannie, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to
Cox, Joanna L. (widow), pension increased .
Cox, Leonard Martin,

2538 357 2319

may be restored as civil engineer, Navy ... 1407

Cox, Wesley G.,

pension increased

2045

Coy, Edward,

pension increased

1466

Coyle, Catherine (widow),

pension...

1657

Coyle, John B. ,

pension increased

2266

Coyner, Frances (widow),
pension.. Crab Island, Lake Champlain,

1759

appropriation for marking graves of sol-

diers and sailors on....

258

Crabtree, Job B.,

pension increased .

2247

Craig, Daniel, pension increased .
Craig, Franklin, pension increased .

1880 2682

Craig, John B. ,

pension increased .

1746

Craig, Thomas C., pension increased .
Craighton, Solomon, pension increased

1780 2262

Craigo, Margaret E. (widow),

pension increased

2706

Cramer, Andrew,

pension increased .

2601

Cramer, Peter,

pension increased .

2211

Crampton, David F. ,

pension increased ..

1837

Crandall, Thomas P.,

pension increased .

2080

Crandell, Henry,

pension increased..

1694

Crandol, James,

pension increased .

2044

Crane, John H.,

pension increased .

1709

Crane, John W., pension increased..
Crane, William, pension increased ..

2668 .. 2472

Crane, William B. ,

pension increased ..

2398

Crane, William J.,

pension....

2814

Cranford, John W. , late a Representative,

printing of eulogies on, authorized ..

826

Cranston, William H., pension increased ..
Crater Lake National Park, appropriation for management, etc .....
Cravens , Benjamin B., pension increased ..
Cravens, John O., pension increased .

1440 729, 1337
2726 2773

3370

INDEX .

Crawford, Anthony H. , pension increased ..

Page. 1538

Crawford, Emery,

pension increased .

2327

Crawford, Francis M.,

pension increased .

2023

Crawford, John,

pension increased.

1961

Crawford, Nebr.,

grant of part of Fort Robinson Reservation

to, for park and water power ....

461

Crawford, Robert B. ,

pension increased .

2238

Crawfordsville, Ind.,

limit ·

of

cost

increased ,

public

building

773

appropriation for......

789

Crazy Mountains Forest Reserve, Mont:,

proclamation establishing

3224

Creager, John W.,

pension increased .

1809

Creasey, George W. ,

pension increased .

1793

Crecelius, Clark,

pension increased ...

2648

Creek Indians (see also Five Civilized Tribes) ,

appropriation for sale and leasing lands of, 338, 1025

for establishing highways.. for tribal schools ..

339 340, 1026

deficiency appropriation for expenses sale

and leasing lands of..

39

equalization of allotments provisions re-

stored ....

138

payment to C. W. Turner..

344

persons included on roll of freedmen .

138

Creek Nation (see also Creek Indians) ,

west boundary line declared ...

364

Crefeld, Germany, classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire......

100 294, 924

Creiss, Theresia (daughter),
pension.. Crematory, D. C., Public,
appropriation for maintenance..

... 1905 124, 1146

bodies of persons in custody of public officer

dying from contagious diseases to be

incinerated in .

123

construction on Washington Asylum

grounds..

123

rules for maintenance , etc.; fees for private

incineration .

123

appropriation for construction and main-

tenance

124

Creston, Iowa,

terms of court at ..

127

Criers, United States Courts,

appropriation for pay of..

... 755, 1361

deficiency appropriation for pay .

1390

Crimes,

appropriation for surpressing counterfeit-

ing, etc ..

708, 1314

for prosecution of.

752, 1358

Crimes and Misdemeanors, *

penalty for violating provision of Arkansas

River Bridge bill..

22

delivery of coal, D. C. , without weight

certificate ...

95

defacing, etc. , property D. C. , increased. 126

indecent exposure, etc. , D. C. , increased. 127

taking away another's property, D. C. ,

increased .

127

accepting fee for special pension act

.services ......

133 , 1407

violating anchorage, etc. , rules, Saint

Marys River, modified ..

136

Crimes and Misdemeanors-Continued.

Page,

penalty for illegal fishing in Alaskan waters

by aliens .

264

violating regulations, employment agen-

cies, D. C.....

308

additional..

848

illegal landing, etc., of sponges...

313

unauthorized erection, etc. , of aids to

navigation ....

324

violating regulations, etc. , for constructing dams across navigable waters... 386

violations of interstate commerce regula-

tions by corporations, common car-

riers ...

587

neglecting to obey order establishing maximum rate for transportation ... 591

failure to make reports by interstate com-

mon carrier....

593

failure to keep, etc. , accounts by carriers. 594

violating speed regulations for vehicles,

D. C.

622

killing game birds, D. C..

808

hunting wild animals without permit,

D. C....

808

killing game, etc. , with firearms without

permit, D. C...

809

hunting water fowl with other than row-

boats, D. C....

809

violating regulations, etc., employment

agencies, D. C. , additional..

848

violating requirement of license for

masters, etc., of vessels..........

864

money contributions by corporations at

political elections....

865

violating veterinary regulations , D. C... 873

violating registered nurses' regulations,

D. C .

889

violating provisions to prevent spread

of contagious diseases, D. C.....

890

importing alien prostitutes, etc...

900

assisting, etc., importation of alien con-

tract labor....

900

soliciting immigration of aliens .

900

illegally landing alien immigrants ..

900

bringing aliens subject to certain phys-

ical disabilities...

901

permitting illegal landing of alien immi-

grants ...

904

failing to return, etc. , illegal alien immi-

grant ....

904

refusing to return alien subject to depor-

tation....

.905

false statements before immigration offi-

cers ..

906

aiding unlawful entrance of alien anarch-

ists, etc......

909

violating space , etc. , requirements for

emigrant passengers on ships ....... 911

unauthorized use of milk bottles, etc. ,

D. C ......

1007

violating requirements for reporting

births, D. C...

1011

selling, etc. , intoxicating liquors to minors by unlicensed persons, D. C...
violating sixteen-hour law.. punishment for exceeding allotment of con-
tingent expenses, etc.. unauthorized wearing badges of soldiers'
organizations , etc. , .D. C.... violations of fire-escape act, D. C. removing, etc. , child committed byjuve-
nile court, D. C ... embezzling moneys paid into juvenile
court .

1249 1416
49
62 71
75
76°

liquor selling, etc. , town sites , Kiowa,

etc., lands, Okla .

80

INDEX .

3371

imes and Misdemeanors-Continued.

Page.

punishment for unlawful trespassing, etc., Battle Mountain Sanitarium Re-

serve, S. Dak...

83

violating bridge regulations ..

85

abandonment , etc. , of wife or child, D. C. 86

hindering, etc. , abatement of nuisances,

D. C...

115

failing to deliver, etc. , property of Five

Civilized Tribes ..

141

obstructing highways, Indian Territory. 146

violating law condemning insanitary

buildings, D. C ....

160

illegal voting, etc. , for Delegate from

Alaska....

174

illegal acts of election officers, Alaska... 174 violations of pharmacy regulations, D. C. 182

cutting trees on public lands for turpen-

tine, etc..

208

unlawful recovery of spirits from fortified

wines....

216

rectifying, etc. , fortified sweet wines,

etc., with other spirits...

218

violating denatured-alcohol provisions .. 217

violation of compulsory-education pro-

visions, D. C. giving false fire alarms, D. C..

: 219, 220 220

unauthorized excavation, etc., of antiq-

uities on public lands...

225

false marking, etc. , gold and silver arti-

cles ...

262

violating liquor prohibitions, Oklahoma . 269

unauthorized entries or departures, quar-

antine stations ....

300

violating quarantine laws and regulations by masters or owners of vessels..... 300

illegal copying, etc., approved roll, Five

Civilized Tribes ...

341

violating calmon, etc. , fisheries regula-

tions, Alaska ...

481

hunting, etc., birds or eggs on game pre-

serves ..

536

extortion by officers, etc. , extended to

include attempts...

46

shanghaiing, merchant seamen ....

551

extended to high seas, etc..

1233

issuing or receiving free interstate passen-

ger transportation...

585

giving or receiving transportation re-

bates, etc...

587

false entries, etc. , in carriers' accounts,

etc.

594

divulging facts, etc. , by interstate com-

merce examiner..

594

issuing, etc., false naturalization certifi-

cates ..

602

engraving, printing, selling, etc. , coun-

terfeit naturalization certificates ..

602

illegally issuing naturalization certifi-

cates ..

602

unlawful possession of blank naturaliza-

tion certificates ..

602

failing to make returns, etc. , of naturali-

zation fees...

602

receiving additional naturalization fees

by clerks...

602

issuing false acknowledgments in natu-

ralization cases..

603

obtaining naturalization by fraud ; acces-

sories ....

603

illegal hunting Grand Canyon Forest Re-

serve wild animal breeding place.. 607

willfully disturbing ruins, etc. , Mesa

Verde Park, Colo...

617

unlawful use of waters of Niagara River,

etc .....

627

88888888

Crimes and Misdemeanors- Continued.

Page.

punishment for violating meat-inspection

law requirements .

677, 1263

violating any provision of meat-inspec-

tion law..

678, 1264

offering bribes, etc. , to meat-inspection

officers ..

678, 1264

accepting gifts, etc. , by meat-inspection

officers..

678, 1264

selling, etc., unsound meats or meat

products...

678, 1265

manufacture of adulterated or mis-

branded food or drugs .

768

traffic, etc. , in adulterated or misbranded

food or drugs ..

768

juvenile court, D. C. , to have jurisdiction

of offenders under 17...

73

Criminal Cases,

writs of error to Supreme Court allowed United States in certain instances.. 1246

Criminals,

appropriation for expenses, bringing home

from foreign countries...

289, 919

deficiency appropriation for bringing home,

from abroad ..

27

admission of alien , excluded ..

899

convention for extradition of, with Great

Britain, adding bribery and bank-

ruptcy crimes .

2903

with Japan, adding embezzlement and

larceny

2951

treaty for extradition of, with Denmark

extended to island possessions, etc. with Haiti
with Norway, modified as to accessories . with Panama ..

2898 2858 2865
2851

Criminals, D. C., Insane, code provisions extended to charges, etc. , by information...
Crisfield, Md., appropriation for improvement of harbor..
Crismon, Charles, pension increased .
Crissip, Pleasant, pension increased ..
Critchfield, Lyman, jr. , ension...
ites, William H., pension increased . Crittenden, Frank, pension increased .
Crockett, William G., pension increased.
Croft, James E., pension increased.
Crofton, Ann H. (widow), pension increased ..
Crome, August, pension....
Crome, William, pension increased .
Cromer, Richard S., pension increased .
Crommett, Francis W., pension increased .
Crooker, Jacob P., pension increased ..
Crooks, William , pension increased .

113 1081 1833 2400 1710 1437 1700 1628 2419 2130 1975 1545 1696 2272 2687 2464

Crookston, Minn.,

construction of public building authorized

at .

777

appropriation for.

791 , 1297

Crop Reports, appropriation for expenses of monthly. 691 , 1276

3372

INDEX .

Cross County, Ark., bridge authorized across Saint Francis River in Poinsett County and.......
Cross, Lemuel, pension increased..
Cross, Levi E., pension increased ..
Cross, Maria (widow), pension increased .
Cross ofHonor, D. C. , The American, incorporated; purposes, etc ..
Cross, Rachel, Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed ; sale for cemetery authorized ..

Page. 819 2125 1642 2538 161
1031

Cross, Theron, pension increased .
Crossman, Greenleaf W., pension increased .
Crouch, David F., pension increased ..
Crouch, William H., pension increased.

258"4 2381 2061 2141

Crow Agency, Mont.,

appropriation for Índian agent at...... 353, 1034

Crow, Allen,

pension increased ..

2155

Crow Creek Agency, S. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian agent at...... 369, 1046

Crow Indian Reservation, Mont.,

deficiency appropriation for opening lands ceded on; reimbursement..
proclamation opening to entry, ceded portion of
time extended homesteaders to establish
residence on opened lands of.......... Crow Indians, Mont.,

205 3200
843

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 353, 1034

for fulfilling treaty with...

353, 1034

Crow, Joseph,

payment to .

1771

Crow Wing River, Minn.,

dam authorized across, between Morrison

and Cass counties...

296

Crowe, Charles E.,

pension increased .

1582

Crowell, John H.,

pension increased .

1494

Crouley, John, pension increased..
Crowley, Thomas, pension increased .
Crozer, James G., pension increased ..
Cruisers, Armored, appropriation for fire-control instruments .
Cruisers, Navy, appropriation for fire-control instruments .
Crum, William A. , pension increased ..
066 Crusader," Yacht,

2388 1993 2776 1180 1180 2506

appropriation for reimbursing owner...... 1291

Crystal River, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1086

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1112

Cuartel Lot, Monterey, Cal. ,

title to, released to city .

267

Cuba,
appropriation for minister to .. for secretary of legation... for second secretary .

286, 916 287, 917 287, 918

for paying claims for losses , etc. , of pri-

vate property in ....

1165

for marking places where American sol-

diers fell in ....

1175

Cuba-Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for signal service expenses, pacification of.
reimbursement for army pacification expenses by, authorized ..
residents of, not liable for immigration tax.
Cuendet, Julius S., pension increased .

1382
1381 898
2142

Culberson, Sherwood F.,

pension increased ..

2037

Culbertson, Otho E. D.,

pension increased .

2796

Culebra, P. R.,

appropriation for public works, naval sta-

tion...

1188

Culins, Peter M.,

pension increased ..

1866

Cullen, Michael,

pension increased ..

2669

Culver, Charles H.,

pension increased ..

1706

Cumberland River,

appropriation for improvement of, above

Nashville ; locks and dams, Nos. 3,

4, 5, 6, and 7; contracts ..

1093

lock and dam 21 ..

737, 1345

bridge_authorized across between Celina,

Tenn., and Bakertown, Ky..

1254

Clarksville, Tenn...

134

between Lineport, Tenn. , and Tennessee

Rolling Works, K.

58, 1254

survey ordered, below Nashville..

1093

time extended for bridging, at Carthage,

Tenn ..

51

Nashville, Tenn .

927

two bridges authorized across , at Nash-

ville, Tenn...

135

Cumberland Sound, Ga. and Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1085

Cummin, William E.,

pension increased..

2428

Cummings, William,

pension increased .

1799

Cummings, William G.,

pension increased...

2665

Cummins, Joseph D.,

pension increased ..

2173

Cunard Steamship Company,

deficiency appropriation for paying judg-

ment .

660

Cundiff, Stephen,

pension increased .

2110

Cunningham, Edward R.,

pension increased..

2273

Cunningham, George,

pension..

1975

Curaçao, West Indies,

classification and salary of consul

100

Curley, Patrick,

pension increased .

1608

Curnutt, John H. , pension increased .
Curran, William, pension increased .
Currency Act, issues of gold certificates, and treasury notes modified ..... depositaries may receive all classes of Gov-
ernment receipts ...... retirement of national- bank notes ; monthly
limit raised ..
Current River, Ark. , appropriation for improvement of.........
Currier, Aaron T., pension increased .

2341 2695
12891290 1290 1093 1483

INDEX.

3373

Currier, Marcus M., pension increased .

Page. 2432

Currier, Theodore S., pension increased ..

2078

Currituck Sound, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of water-

way through, from Norfolk to Albe-

marle Sound..

1083

Curry, Oliver,

pension increased ..

2473

Curtis, Elijah,

pension increased .

2088

Curtis, Joseph A. C., pension increased ..
Curtis, Levi E., pension increased.
Curtis, Levi W., pension increased.
Curtis, Oren D., pension increased.

1871 2549 2677 2472

Cushing, Andrew J. ,

pension increased.

2367

Cushing, Martha G. (widow),

pension increased .

1501

Cushman, Ellen S. (sister),

pension..

1884

Cusick, Lizzie B. (widow),

pension increased ...

1933

Custer County, Mont. ,

appropriation for bridge built by, across

Tongue River, at Fort Keogh....

-88

Custer, William A. ,

pension increased .

2098

Custodians, Public Buildings,

appropriation for assistant .

707, 1313

deficiency appropriation for assistant , and

janitors ..

45, 832

Customs (see also Immediate Transportation of Dutiable Goods and Reciprocity

Arrangements),

appropriation for local appraisers ' meet-

ings ..

708, 1315

for automatic recording scales contin-

ued ....

708, 1315

for collecting revenue from, additional.. 1315 for motor boarding boat, Galveston, Tex . 1011

deficiency. appropriation for local apprais-

ers' meetings...

28

for repaying importers excess of deposits . 45

for inspectors at New York ....

636,.1373

for refunding stamps on manifests ..

1373

appraiser at New York, salary increased .. 1373

assistant appraisers at New York, number

increased..

874

special deputy and deputy appraisers au-

thorized; duties..

874

deputy collectors, etc. , to be appointed by

Secretary of the Treasury..

880

entry and clearance of vessels for petro-

leum at San Luis Obispo, Port Har-

ford , and Monterey, Cal.

23

expenses, detecting, etc. , frauds upon rev-

enue from, allowance increased .... 1315

fees to collectors, etc.,to be paid from appro-

priation for collecting revenue from. 1315

free admissions of exhibits, Jamestown

Exposition ; conditions...

766

invoices from Philippines to be authenti-

cated by collector of customs ..

539

permits to load or unload at night , vessels

from foreign ports .

633

extended to bonded carriers from United

States ports....

633

solicitor of, and assistants authorized; du-

ties, etc..

763

Customs Collection Districts (see also Imme- Page.

diate Transportation of Dutiable

Goods) ,

established, Sabine, Tex...

302

surveyor, Salt Lake City, Utah, salary in-

creased..

452

Customs Duties,

charged on freight transshipped through

foreign countries if rates not made

public...

586

Customs Duties, Philippine (see Philippine

Tariff, 1905).

Customs Laws and Decisions , Digest of,

appropriation for preparing..

840

Customs Revenue,

appropriation for collecting; additional... 1315

deficiency appropriation for collecting... 28, 45, 636, 665, 1401

amount for detection of frauds upon, etc.,

increased ....

1315

fines, fees, charges, etc. , to be covered into

the Treasury..

1315

payments to collectors, etc. , on account of

fees, to be from appropriations for

collecting..

1315.

restriction on deposit of receipts from, in

national banks removed...

1290

Customs Tariffs, International Bureau for

Publication of,

appropriation for annual contribution ... 290, 920

Cutler, John D., pension increased ..

... 1935

Cutler, Susan H. (widow),

pension..

1483

Cutters, Man-of- War's, etc. ,

loan of, one for every 25 cadets at certain

military schools ; conditions ...

620

Cypress Bayou, Tex. and La.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1092

D.

Dabney, Virginius,

deficiency appropriation for expenses ...... 652

Dachrodt, Jacob,

pension increased ..

1608

Dagenfield, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

1939

Dailey, George M., pension increased ...

2014

Dailey, Rachel A. (widow),

pension...

1474

Dailey, Samuel,

pension increased .

2195

Dailey, Thomas,

pension increased .

2085

Dairy Industry,

appropriation for experiments developing,

in Southern States.....

674

Dairy Products,

appropriation for investigation , etc. , of, for

export ...

674, 1260

for chemical examination, etc. , of.... 686 , 1272

Dakin, Charles W.,

payment to heirs of..

2815

Dakota County, Minn. ,

allotment to certain Sioux Indians, to be

sold to Minnesota ; proceeds .

78

Dale County, Ala. ,

dam authorized across Choctawhatchee

River in...

102

Dalecarlia Reservoir, D. C.,

appropriation for dredging, improving, etc. 1135

Daley, John W.,

pension increased .

1947

3374

INDEX .

Dallas, Tex.,

Page.

limit of cost increased , public building ... 774

appropriation for...

789

Dallman, Thomas G.,

pension increased ..

2563

Dalny, Manchuria, classification and salary of consul......... 99

Dalton, Ga. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

778

appropriation for..

792, 1297

Daly, James C.,

pension increased .

2290

Dams-Continued .
location, etc., modified of, across Mississippi River, in Morrison County, Minn
time extended for, across Mississippi River, at Clearwater, Minn ..
Monticello, Minn . Rock Island Rapids ..
Sauk Rapids, Minn .. Wright and Sherburne counties, Minn . Missouri River, Mont.....
provisions for electric-power companies, Indian Territory ..

Page.
1219
1235 1235
876 1058
84 1415
146

Daly, Richard C., pension increased .
Dalzell, John K., pension increased ...
Damm, Henry, pension increased...
Dams,

Dancy, George L.,
1792 pension....
Danforth, George L., 1998 pension increased.
Daniel, Mary A. (widow), pension increased ...
2458 Danieldson, August, pension increased.

2747 2711 2369 1888

general regulations for constructing for

Daniels, Aaron,

power, etc ...

386 pension increased ..

approval of plans, etc. , by Chief of En-

Daniels, Abbie J. (daughter),

gineers and Secretary of War, re-

pension..

2263 2230

quired .... maintenance of locks, sluices, etc ..

386 Daniels, Clara E. (widow), 386 pension increased ..

2771

land, etc. , for lock for navigation.. liability for flowage damages..

386 Daniels, Joseph, 386 pension increased .

2430

forfeiture for noncompliance with re-
quirements.. penalties for violations ; removal, etc .. time for construction :.

Daniels, Myra R. (vidow), 386 pension increased
386 Daniels, Thomas W., 387 pension increased

1925 2575

right to amend, etc. , reserved ..

387 Danielson, C. J. ,

authorized by riparian owners, Coosa

payment to....

2661

River, Ala. , near Lock 2.

183 Danley, Andrew D. ,

construction of, authorized across Bear

pension increased .

1957

River, Tishomingo County, Miss .. 130, 929

Choctawhatchee River, Dale County,

Ala .

102

Coosa River, at Lock and Dam No. 12... 1288

Crow Wing River, Morrison and Cass

counties, Minn .

296

Flint River, at Porter Shoals, Ga..

878

Danner, Charles E. , and Company, refund of license to....

2412

Danville, Ill.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home..

748, 1355

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home..

34, 1383

Goose Creek, S. C ... Mississippi River, Bemidji, Minn
Clearwater, Minn.. Monticello, Minn .
Morrison County, Minn.... Stearns and Sherburne counties, Minn .

265 Danville, Ky.,

210 acquiring site and erecting public building

266

at, authorized .

779

264

appropriation for ...

792, 1297

209 Danville, Va.,

537 terms of court at....

547

Missouri River, Mont.... Niobrara River, Nebr... Pea River, near Elba, Ala .

111, 912 D'Arbonne River,

297 bridge_authorized across, at Farmerville,

18

La .

1254

Pend d'Oreille River, Big Falls, Wash.. 205 Darby, George W.,

Stevens County, Wash

931 pension increased .

1777-

Red Lake River, Minn . Rock River, near Grand Detour, Ill .
Lyndon, Ill
Rock Island County, Ill.. Saint Joseph River, near Berrien Springs ,
Mich ... Mottville, Mich. Savannah River, at Andersonville
Shoals .....
above Augusta, Ga. Calhoun Falls.. Cherokee Shoals . Gregg Shoals .. Hattons Ford . McDaniel Shoals . Middleton Shoals. Trotters Shoals... Turner Shoals .
Tennessee River. at Muscle Shoals, Ala . White River, Ark.........

65 14
933 155
102
1254 |
1240 1000
1240 1255
876 1240
1238 1239 1241 1239
52 628

Darcy, Mary E. (mother), pension..
Durling, Delphine ( widow), pension increased .
Darling, James M. , granted honorable discharge...
Darling, La Forrest C., pension increased .
Dauber, K. H., payment to..
Daughenbaugh, Jonathan, pension increased ..
Daughenbaugh, Samuel M., pension increased ..
Daugherty, Lewis L., pension increased .
Daughters ofthe American Revolution, may erect fountain at Paducah, Ky . punishment for unauthorized wearing insignia of, in District of Columbia....

2005 2420 2305 1656 2661 1670 2228 . 1571 878
62

INDEX.

3375

Dauphin Island, Ala. , bridge authorized across Mobile Bay, between Cedar Point and ....
Davenport, Abram W. , pension increased .
Davenport, Iowa, acquiring site for public building at, authorized ..
appropriation for.. Davenport, Mary E. (widow),
pension increased

Page. 10
1726
782 794 1472

Davenport, Mary L. (widow),

pension increased .

1799

Davenport Water Power Company, time extended for dam, etc., Mississippi
River, at Rock Island Rapids ............... Davey, Henry,
pension increased .
David, Ferdinand, pension increased
Davidson County, Tenn. , may build two bridges across Cumberland River, at Nashville .. time extended..
Davidson, David L., pension increased .
Davidson, Eliza (widow) , pension increased .
Davidson, James M., pension increased .
Davidson, Lucinda (widow), pension increased .
Davies, Thomas J., pension increased .
Davis, Aaron,
pension.. Davis, Barlow,
pension increased

876 1899 2331
135 927 1528 1898 2556 2553 1663 2749 2301

Davis, Christopher C., pension increased .
Davis, David, pension increased .
Davis, Dennis A. , pension increased .
Davis, Elizabeth (widou ), pension increased .
Davis, Franklin H., pension increased
Davis, Henry C., pension increased .
Davis, Henry H., pension increased .
Davis, Hezekiah, military record corrected. payment to widow of..
Davis, Hiram N. , deficiency appropriation for maple sugar bounty .
Davis, James, pension increased
Davis, James H. , military record corrected ..
Davis, James N., pension increased
Davis, John G., pension increased

2137 1727 1492 1448 2758 2641 2488 2820 2821
1375 2352 2466 2139 1726

Davis, John W.,

pension increased

1683

Daris, Joseph,

pension increased .

1.504

Davis, Julius A.,

pension increased

2115

Davis, Lewellen T.,

pension increased .

1826

Davis, Lewis F., pension increased .

Page. 2172

Davis, Lucretiu (widow),

pension increased .

2457

Davis, Marcus,

pension increased

2601

Davis, Matthew J., payment to...

2313

Davis, Moses,

pension increased

2059

Davis, Moses B.,

pension increased

1734

Davis, Newton S.,

pension increased .

2089

Davis, Philena (widow),

pension increased .

1503

Davis, Philo E., pension increased

*2108

Davis, Richard E.,

pension increased .

1864

Davis, Samuel B.,

pension increased .

2508

Davis, Samuel H. ,

pension increased .

2142

Davis, Samuel L.,

pension increased .

2537

Davis, Samuel S. ,

may dam north and south branches of Rock

River, Ill ..

155

Davis, Seth, honorable discharge granted ....

2221, 2811

Davis, Stephen M.,

pension increased .

1657

Davis, Susan E. (widow), pension increased ..

2797

Davis, Temperance (widow), pension increased

2656

Davis, Theodore T. , pension increased .

2192

Davis, Thomas B.,

pension...

1698

Davis, Thomas C.,

pension increased

2421

Davis, Thomas J.,

pension increased .

2042

Davis, William , Illinois Volunteers,

pension increased ..

1751

Davis, William , Oregon Volunteers, pension increased ....

2280

Davis, Willian , War with Mexico, pension increased ..

2783

Davis, William P.,

pension increased .

1643

Davison, James H.,

pension increased ....

2469

Davy, Michael, alias James Byron,

pension increased ..

1992

Dawes, John W., pension increased ..

2170

Dawson, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2200

Dawson, Yukon Territory, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire .

99 294, 924

Day, Enos,

pension increased

1912

Day, Sarah Ann (widow),

pension increased .

2103

Dayhuff, Martin,

pension increased .

1996

Dayton, James,

pension increased ..

1865

3376

INDEX.

Dayton, Ohio,

Page.

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home; additions...

745, 1351

terms of court at

1294

De Bruler, William H.,

pension increased .

2618

De Burger, Marquis M.,

pension increased ..

1806

De Castro, Francis H.,

pension increased .

2451

De Fontes, Joseph,

deficiency appropriation for............. .... 663, 1398

De Graff, Henry,

pension increased .

1989

De Haven, Samuel,

pension increased .

2612

De Laittre, Lewis,

pension increased .

1939

De Noyer, Frank,

pension increased .

2727

De Planque, Frederick,

pension increased ..

2500

De Puy, John M.,

pension increased ..

1858

De Veaux, Florence Greeley ( widow),

pension..

1505

De Witt, Orlean,

pension increased .

1610

Dead-Letter Division, Post-Office Department,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc ...

439, 984

Deadwood, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for assay office at .

415, 962

for public building .

698, 789

limit of cost increased , public building .

773

Deal, Harvey,

pension increased

1978

Dean, Chauncey P.,

pension increased

1570

Dean, George C.,

pension increased

2296

Dean, Henry E., deficiency appropriation for services ...... 656

Dean, Samuel C.,

pension increased ..

2101

Dean, William,

pension increased .

2548

Dearborn, Richard,

pension increased .

1543

Deardourf, John,

pension increased .

1724

Dearey, James,

pension increased .

2230

Deuter, Levi,

pension increased .

2616

Decatur, Ill.,

appropriation for public building.

1297

limit of cost increased , public building.

773

Dechon, Louis, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to heirs of...

374

Deckard, Jacob R.,

pension increased .

2018

Decker, Benjamin H.,

pension...

1678

Decker, David,

pension increased .

2715

Decker, John L.,

pension increased ..

1764

Decker, William A. ,

pension increased..

2802

Deckers Creek, W. Va. , preliminary examination of, to be made... 1118

Decorah, Iowa,
acquiring site for public building at, authorized ..
appropriation for. Decorations, etc. ,
acceptance permitted Rear Admiral B. H. McCalla from Emperor of Germany .
Professor Simon Newcomb ...

Page. 782 794
2825 1713

Dedrick, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased..

2295

Deeds, etc.,

acknowledgment of, affecting lands in District or Territories, by notaries, Guam, Samoa, or Canal Zone....... 552

Deems, Isaac,

pension increased..

1701

Deems, Samuel,

pension increased ..

1978

Deep Bay, N. C. , preliminary examination to be made of

waterway to Swan Quarter Bay from . 1116 Deer Island, Boston Harbor, Mass. ,

purchase of land on, for fortification pur-

poses; conditions ...

457

damages from firing guns to be reported to

Congress

458

Defacing, etc., Property, D. C.,

penalty for wilfully, increased ..

126

Defective Persons, Mentally or Physically,

admission of alien, excluded ....

899

Defending Suits in Claims, appropriation for expenses,

751, 1358

deficiency appropriation for... 40, 656, 1389, 1403

Deficiencies Appropriations Bill, 1906,

conferees authorized to insert in, appro

priations for omnibus public build-

ings, and railroad rates, bills ....

2834

Deficiency Appropriations (see also Appropriations) ,

for Department of State ... 27, 118, 634, 885, 1371

diplomatic and consular service.

27,

for Treasury Department ..

634, 885, 1372 27,

119, 635, 842, 885, 1372

collecting customs revenue... Philippine tariff, etc. , prior to 8, 1902, legalized ..
Engraving and Printing Bureau internal revenue. quarantine stations.. Revenue-Cutter Service .
public buildings.. mints and assay offices. government in the Territories ..

28, 636, 1401 March
636 637
29, 637, 1375 29
30, 638 30, 638, 1375 31, 639, 1376
639

for District of Columbia... 31 , 119, 639, 886, 1376 for Interstate Commerce Commission .. 31, 119

for War Department .... 32, 120, 644, 843, 1380

California earthquake sufferers ..

644

Texas claim .

645

Army...

32, 645, 843, 1381

replacing stores, San Francisco earth-

quake

645

Isthmian Canal .

33

Volunteer Soldiers' Home..

34, 1382

State, War, and Navy Department build-

ing ..

35

for Navy Department...

35, 646, 885, 1383

Navy ..

35, 646, 885, 1384

for Interior Department..

36,

120, 653, 842, 885, 1387

public lands.. Geological Survey .

654 37,654

Indian department....

38, 654, 1389

pensions..

39, 1389

INDEX .

3377

Deficiency Appropriations - Continued.

Page.

for Department of Justice..

40, 656, 1389

judicial...... United States courts..

657 40, 657, 1390

for Post-Office Department.. postal service....

42, 657, 1391 42, 658, 1391

for Department of Agriculture.. 42, 658, 841 , 1392 for Department of Commerce and Labor... 42 ,

659, 843, 1392

Coast and Geodetic Survey.

42, 1393

Light-House Establishment .

42, 1393

light-houses, etc..

659

for legislative

43, 660, 1394

for Senate..

43, 660, 1394

for House of Representatives .. 43, 120, 661, 1396

for public printing and binding..... 44, 663, 1398

for Government Printing Office..

120

for the Vice-President..

1371

for Civil Service Commission .

1371

for Secretary of the President .

1393

for Library of Congress ...

1399

for judgments, Court of Claims .

44, 664, 1399

Indian depredation claims .

44, 664, 1400

for paying awards, Spanish Treaty Claims

Commission..

45, 665, 1400

for paying claims certified by accounting

officers..

45, 665, 668, 1400

888 ** ** * *** **

for executive; committee on Department

methods..

663

for judgments, United States courts .. 663, 1399

for United States court for China.

669

for assistant custodians and janitors, public

buildings..

832

for stamped envelopes and wrappers .

833

expenditures, etc., in excess of appropri-

ations forbidden ..

49

acceptance of voluntary service, forbidden. 49

employing personal service in excess of ap-

propriations forbidden; emergencies . 49

allotments of contingent expenses, etc. , to

prevent deficiencies ...

49

modifications not allowed ; exceptions .. 49

not applicable to Congress..

49

written modification required ; report to

Congress...

49

punishment for violations.

49

eight-hour law not applicable to unskilled

alien laborers, Isthmian Canal ...... 669

Defoe, John M.,

pension increased ...

2369

Dehlendorf, Caroline (widow) ,

pension increased .

1780

Deisch, Charles F.,

granted honorable discharge......

1959

Dekalb, Ill.,

appropriation for public building........

698

Del Gindice, Francesco,

pension increased..

1646

Del Rio, Tex.,

terms of court..

226

Delaney, John,

pension increased .

2589

Delaney, Robert H. ,

pension increased..

2520

Delany, Edward,

pension increased .

1997

Delany, William,

pension increased...

1896

Delaware,

agreement with New Jersey as to jurisdic-

tion over part of Delaware River,

ratified .

861

rights of United States not impaired .... 861

Delaware, Ambrose S., pension increased ..
Delaware Bay,
appropriation for light and fog signal station, new breakwater.....
'commission to report on waterway from
Chesapeake Bay to... preliminary examination to be made for
canal to Rehoboth Bay, Del ........ Delaware Bay Harbor of Refuge,
limit of cost increased for fight and fog signal on breakwater...
Delaware Breakwater Quarantine Station, appropriation for fence...

Page. 2299
711 835 1112
322 1307

Delaware, Ohio,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation,for .

795

Delaware River, Pa . and N. J., . appropriation for lighting..

713, 1320

Delaware River,

" appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts for maintenance, etc...... 738; 1080

for improvement of Perriwig Bar.

1080

agreement between New Jersey and Dela-

ware as to jurisdiction over part of,

ratified ..

861

rights of United States not impaired .

861

bridge authorized across, near Trenton,

N. J...

64

deficiency appropriation for .

659

light and fog-signal station, Miah Maul

Shoal.

322

deficiency appropriation for.

659

appropriation for..

1317

Joe Flogger Shoal.

322

deficiency appropriation for .

659

range lights at Bellevue Range..

322

deficiency appropriation for

659

Delegates from Territories,

appropriation for compensation and mile-

age. clerk hire .

392, 938 396, 942

deficiency appropriation for compensa-

tion ...

661, 1396

compensation established .

994.

provision for electing, in Alaska.

169

for election of Hawaii modified .

550

Delinquent Children, D. C. , jurisdiction of juvenile court over...
Delisle, Joseph, pension increased ....

74 2038

Delong, Henry,

pension increased ...

2196

Delong, Richard L.,

pension increased ..

1956

Demarest, Charles M.,

refund to estate of..

1940

Demers, Eugene,

pension increased ......

2304

Demopolis, Ala.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for.

794

Denatured Alcohol Act, appropriation for expenses under...... 218, 957

withdrawal from bond, tax free, for indus-

trial uses

217

special denaturating bonded warehouses

to be designated ..

217

regulation of material, conditions, etc

217

bonds, returns , etc., required ; inspection 217

3378

INDEX .

Denatured Alcohol Act-Continued. prohibitions: withdrawing from bond and preventing supervision .. using for beverages or liquid medicines. selling such beverages, etc .... violating provisions of act. recovering, etc. , alcohol from denatured
spirits .. using, selling, etc. , recovered spirits . punishment for violations.. recovery permitted for manufacturing
processes... additional employees, instruments, etc. ,
authorized..

Page.
217 217 217 217
217 217 217
217
218

appointments for two years not subject to

civil-service conditions..

218

appropriation for expenses ..

218

report to Congress required ; scope ..

218

withdrawal of denatured domestic alcohol

for chemical manufacture changing

substance

1250

of rum for denaturing.

1250

central denaturing bonded warehouses

authorized..

1250

transfers of alcohol to, etc ..

1250

withdrawal for denaturing by pipe line,

tanks, tank cars, etc ..

1250

from bonded warehouses to central de-

naturing plants...

1250

provisions for small distilleries for denatur-

ation only...

1250

in effect September 1 , 1907 ..

1251

Denison, Tex.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

781

appropriation for......

794, 1297

Denmark,

appropriation for minister to ... for secretary of legation....

286, 917 287, 917

deficiency appropriation for Samoan claims 635

extradition treaty with, extended to island

possessions, and bribery added

2898

parcels post convention with

2965

Dennis, Isaac C.,

pension increased ..

1618

Denny, Mary (widow),

pension increased ..

2614

Denson, Lewis,

pension increased ...

2028

Dental Surgeons, Army, appropriation for.. detail to Military Academy.

245, 1163 1163

Dentists, D. C. ,

use of drugs , etc. , by, restricted .......

175

Denver, Colo., appropriation for mint at.

414, 960

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, mint..

30

acquiring site for public building at, au- thorized .. 7.32

appropriation for.:

794

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

774

appropriation for..

790

limit of cost increased , mint at .

784

old building to be sold ; use of proceeds . 784

minor coins to be coined at mint ; distribu-

tion ..

132

plans, etc. , for new building to be sub-

mitted...

1297

transfer of appropriation for wages , mint,

to clerks, etc..

842

Department Methods, Committee on,

deficiency appropriation for salaries

663

Department of Agriculture,

Page.

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant,

clerks, etc ..

670, 1256

for laborers, charwomen, etc ..

670, 1256

for Weather Bureau

671, 1257

for Bureau of Animal Industry ..

672, 1258

meat and meat animal inspection for

interstate transportation .

674, 1260

for Bureau of Plant Industry..

679, 1265

experimental gardens and grounds. 680, 1266

Arlington experimental farm................ 680, 1266

tea culture, sugar, etc. , investiga-

tions ...

681 , 1267

roads in Department grounds..

681

inspecting and grading grain for ex-

port, etc..

681, 1267

seed distribution .

682, 1267

purchase and test of valuable foreign

seeds, etc ..

682, 1268

fund from sale of products

684

permanent improvements ; reports ..... 1270

deposit of receipts; payments to States

and Territories ..

1270

restriction on further reserves .

1271

for Bureau of Chemistry ..

685, 1271

examination and detention ofunwhole-

some, etc., food , drugs, etc., im-

ported ...

686

pure food inspection ..

686, 1272

report on employment of State offi-

cials, etc

1272

for Bureau of Soils .

687, 1272

for Bureau of Entomology.

688, 1273

for Bureau of Biological Survey .

688, 1274

report on utility of Bureau..

1274

for Division of Accounts and Disburse-

ments .

689, 1274

for Division of Publications .

689, 1274

farmers' bulletins .

690

for Bureau of Statistics .

690, 1276

crop reports...... extending foreign markets

691, 1276 691 , 1276

for library.

691 , 1277

card index of agricultural literature 692, 1277

for contingent expenses...

692, 1277

for Office of Experiment Stations . 692, 1278 reports, etc., on farmers' institutes . 693, 1279

nutrition investigations...

694, 1279

irrigation and drainage investiga-

tions .

694, 1279

for Public Roads Office ..

694, 1279

discretion in use of lump funds ; maxi-

mum salaries , etc.

695, 1280

annual statement of changes, etc .. 695, 1280.

promotion of laborers transferred to

classified service .

695

for emergencies, cotton boll weevil ,

etc.

695, 1280

gypsy and brown-tail moths .

696, 1280

cattle-fever ticks .

696, 1281

buffalo range , Wichita Game Preserve. 696

Dismal River Forest Reserve, Nebr... 696

for surveys, etc. , Appalachian and White

Mountain watersheds ..

1281

report on setting apart as forest re-

serves ....

1281

sale of prints and lantern slides from
negatives of Department ; proceeds . 696 , 1281

transfer of table sirup station , Way-

cross, to Georgia; conditions ..

696

allotment of increased annual appro-

priations for experiment stations.... 696

disposal of worthless papers, etc ...... 1281

purchase of mileage books..

1281

INDEX.

3379

Department of Agriculture-Continued . appropriation for agricultural colleges

Page. 1281

method of payment ; courses for teach-

ers ..

1282

additional statements to be made by

Secretary..

1282

for construction of buildings.

758, 1364

for printing and binding.

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for Animal In-

dustry Bureau ..

42, 48, 669, 1403

for grass and forage plant investigations .. 48

for purchase, etc. , of seeds .

48, 667

for Weather Bureau..

48, 667

for contingent expenses..

658, 667

for library

659

for Forest Service .

667, 1403

for entomological investigations ..

667

for collecting statistics..

667, 1403

for expenses under pure-food act .

841

for Secretary.

1392

for Plant Industry Bureau.

1403

beet-sugar industry report ordered to be

printed annually.

838

Department of Commerce and Labor, appropriation for solicitor of the ..

441 , 986

for Secretary, Assistant , clerks, etc. 441, 987

for investigation of trade relations

abroad .

442, 987

cotton market..

442

for Bureau of Corporations , salaries .
special attorneys , etc. for Bureau of Manufactures
collating foreign tariffs .. for Bureau of Labor, salaries
miscellaneous expenses..

442, 987 442, 987 442, 987
988 442, 988 443, 988

for Light-House Board .

443, 988

for Census Office , salaries . collecting statistics, etc.. rent, contingent expenses, etc tabulating returns ..
for Bureau of Statistics, salaries

443, 988 443.989
444, 989 444, 989 444, 989

for collecting statistics... for Steamboat- Inspection Service . for Bureau of Navigation ...
for Inmigration Bureau..

444, 989 444, 989 445, 990
445

for" Immigration and Naturalization Bureau.. 990

for Bureau of Standards, salaries.. 445, 990

equipment....

445 , 991

member, International Committee of

Weights and Measures...

446, 991

delegate, International Committee of

Electrical Units...

446, 991

for contingent expenses.. for rent.....
for site and building for .
repealed ...... for civil expenses under for immigrant stations .
Ellis Island ...

446, 991 446, 991
700 840 710, 1317 710 1317

for light-houses, etc for Light- House Establishment . for Coast and Geodetic Survey for Fisheries Bureau...

710, 1317 712, 1319 713, 1321 717, 1324

for Alaska seal fisheries ..

721. 1329

for enforcing Chinese exclusion for Henry John Wright ..
for McKay Steamship Line for Oscar Klocker ....

722, 1329 722 722 722

for expenses, shipping commissioners . 722, 1330

for printing and binding .

760, 1368

for salaries, naturalization division , Im-

migration Bureau ...

1329

information division ; additional as-

sistants ....

1329

Department of Commerce and Labor- Con. Page.

appropriation for expenses, restricting im-

migration of certain aliens ..

1330

for woman and child workers ' investiga-

tion ..

1330

for immigrant station, Charleston, S. C.. 1415

Galveston, Tex...

1412

New Orleans, La ..

1409

deficiency appropriation for Bureau of

Manufactures, assistant chief .

42

for Alaska seal fisheries.......

42, 1393

for shipping commissioners ; rent

42

for Coast and Geodetic Survey .

42, 1393

for Light-House Establishment .. 42, 48, 1405

for Court of Claims judgments un-

der .

44, 664, 1400

for Fish Commission.

48, 659

for special agents..

659

for light-houses, beacons, and fog sig-

nals ..

659, 842, 1393

for Monongahela River, post lights ....

660

for William John Wright and others,

moiety of fines ..

660

for Mexican-American Steamship Com-

pany.

660

for Cunard Steamship Company.

660

for immigration station , Ellis Island ,

N. Y ..

842

for Secretary.

1392

for contingent expenses..

1392

for reimbursing naval officers

1392

for Henry Weber.

1393

for Canadian Pacific Railway Company . 1393

for judgments of United States courts

under .

1399

for Standards Bureau ..

1403

for Fisheries Bureau..

1403

for Chinese exclusion .

1403

Immigration Bureau changed to Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization.... 596

to have charge of naturalization matters . 596

additional officers, employees, etc. , to be

provided ..

1 596

Industrial Commission files, to be trans-

ferred to ..

1425

names of heads of families in First Census,

to be published ..

722

officials to enforce regulations of salmon ,

etc. , fisheries, Alaska.

480

Department of Justice,

appropriation for Attorney-General , As-

sistants, Solicitor-General, clerks,

etc.

440, 985

for division of accounts .

986

transfer of clerks , Insular Affairs .

441

for contingent expenses..

441, 986

for official transportation..

441 , 986

for rent....

441, 986

for Solicitor ofthe Treasury , clerks, etc. 441 , 986

for Solicitor of the Department of Com-

merce and Labor...

411, 986

for jail , District of Columbia.

508

for building for

700

repealed .... for civil expenses under .

840 750, 1357

for additional rent, furniture, and ex-

penses ..

1357

for court-house , Washington , D. C .. 750, 1357

for Court of Claims, building.

750

for construction of penitentiaries . 750; 1357

for Reform School , D. C. , new build-

ings .

751 , 1358

for Alaska, court-houses and jails .

751

for court-house and jail , Nome , Alaska .. 1358

for defending suits in claims .

751 , 1358

3380

INDEX .

Department of Justice- Continued .

Page.

appropriation for prosecution of crimes . 752, 1358

for defense, Indian depredation

claims .

752, 1358

for punishing violations of intercourse

acts..

752, 1358

for traveling and emergency expenses 752, 1359

for care of buildings ..

752, 1359

for Alaska expenses..

752, 1359

for Spanish Treaty Claims Commission,

expenses..

752, 1359

for enforcing antitrust laws .

752, 1359

for Volume 25, Opinions of the Attorney-

General..

753

for United States courts .

753, 1360

for Reform School, D. C.

758, 1364

for printing and binding..

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for miscellaneous

expenditures ...

40

for law books ..

40

for Reform School, D. C.; plans for new

building..

40

repairs, etc. for court-house, D. C for Court of Claims .. for Winchester Kelso .

40, 656 40
40 40

for defense, Indian depredation claims .. 40, 48

for United States courts

40 ,

48, 657, 667, 669, 1390, 1403, 1405

for contingent expenses..

656

for defending suits in claims .

40,

656, 1389, 1403

for Henry E. Dean...

656

for jail , Alaska ..

656

for Hugh T. Taggart .

656

for Indian Territory courts..

657

for judge New York southern district... 657

for judgments of United States courts ,

under.

663, 1399

for Court of Claims judgments under . 664, 1400

for court for China .

669

for Attorney-General .

1389

for militia stores to marshal of Idaho .. 1389

for Fernando M. Vidal ..

1390

for Alaska expenses.

1390

for prosecuting Indians in Arizona..

1403

extra copies of laws and statutes for dis-

tribution by, ordered ...

1426

officers of, when specifically directed, may

conduct cases in any district ...

816

Department of State,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistants,

clerks, etc...

402, 948

limitation on personal services .

402

for emergency clerical services ..

948

for stationery, furniture, etc.

402,948

for books, maps, etc. , for library . for lithographer, etc .. for contingent expenses .

402, 949 402, 949 402, 949

for rent.

949

for solicitor for the .

440, 985

for diplomatic and consular service ... 286, 916

for printing in the..

289,919

for building for..

700

repealed...

840

for site and building for Bureau of the

American Republics.

758

for printing and binding.. for court for China....

760, 1366 1357

for American National Red Cross Society. 1357

for irrigation project, convention with

Mexico ....

1357

deficiency appropriation for diplomatic and

consular service ..

27.

48, 634, 667 , 1372, 1403, 1405

Department of State-Continued . deficiency appropriation for international conference of American States.....
for international peace conference .. for Red Cross conference ...
for paying Samoan claims, Germany . Denmark . France..
for International Institute of Agriculture . for Secretary: for additional clerks.
for international maritime exposition.... for John Bassett Moore ... consular service reorganization ..

Page.
118 118 118 635 635 635 635 1371 1371 1371 1372
99

evidences of citizenship, etc., to be filed in . 1229

to deliver certain early archives to North .

Carolina..

822

Departments (see Executive Departments).

Departments, Executive, compensation of heads of, established ..... 993

Dependent Children, D. C. , jurisdiction of juvenile court over ........ 74

Deportation of Aliens,

illegally entering; expenses, etc ...

904

penalty for failure of owner of vessel to

return, etc ..

904

to be to port from which originally em-

barked ..

908

Depositing Public Moneys,

appropriation for expenses, land offices . 724 , 1332

deficiency appropriation for expenses, land

offices.

885

Depositories of Public Documents, Designated, distribution of documents to.
land-grant colleges constituted . Deposits, Army Enlisted Men,

1014 1014

of savings, to be kept as special deposit

fund ..

246

Depth of Tidal Waters,

meaning of, in river and harbor legislation . 1110

Deputy Collectors of Customs,

and other customs' officers to be appointed

by Secretary of the Treasury.

880

duties ; bond, etc ..

880

Derelicts, etc.,

appropriation for revenue cutter for re-

moval of...

703, 1309

vessel for removal of, under Revenue-

Cutter Service , authorized

190

Derr, Obadiah,

pension increased .

2147

Derry, Samuel,

pension increased .

1826

Des Moines, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized

at.

777

appropriation for.

791, 1297

acceptance of land adjoining public build-

ing...

1237

Descanum , or Albert, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

378

Deseret News, Salt Lake City, Utah, deficiency appropriation for advertising ... 645

Desert-Land Entries,

allowance to settlers on lands within irri-

gation projects ........

520

Desert Lands,

appropriation for examinations of...... 724 , 1332

purchase by Colorado of, in former Southern Ute Reservation, authorized .... 1056

time extended for final proof, entries in

Benton County, Wash..

1057

Desertion of Wife, D. C..

punishment for willful .

86

INDEX.

3381

Deskines, Rush, pension increased ..

Page. 2293

Deters, W. H.,

payment to.

2661

Detour, Mich.,

appropriation for light station; purchase of

flash lens...

1318

Detroit, Mich.,

appropriation for marine-postal service , 472, 1210

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ...

774

appropriation for.

790, 1297

Detroit River, Mich.,.

appropriation for improvement of; Detroit

to Lake Erie...

737

for improvement of, and maintenance ;

contracts .

738, 1098

for improvement of, plan " B ; " contracts . 1098

Devereux, Arthur F.,

pension increased..

1498

Devereux, Clara A. R. (widow),

pension increased ..

2217

Devils Lake Indian Reservation, N. Dak. ,

cancellation of patents to certain Indians

of, authorized ..

361

Devils Lake, N. Dak.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

780

appropriation for....

793, 1297

terms of court at..

609, 610

Devils Lake, N. Dak. , Sioux Indians of,

appropriation for additional payment for ceded lands ...

Devils Tower National Monument, Wyo. ,

proclamation setting aside..

Devlin, James,

granted honorable discharge.. Devon, W. Va. ,

bridge authorized across Tug Fork of Big Sandy River at.

Devor, James pension increased ........

Devore, Elijah, pension increased .

Dew, Famous, Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed ..

.....

Dewees, Balos C. , pension increased .

Dewey County, S. Dak.,

bridge authorized across Missouri River, between Walworth County and .............
Dewey, Robert J., pension increased .

Dewhurst, Joseph, pension increased..

Dewer, Ann (widow), pension.
Dezarn, Hezekiah,

360 3236 2218
883 2118 2800 345 1812
95 2397 2584 1994

return from President requested of bill to

pension..

2839

Diamond Mountain Forest Reserve, Cal.,

proclamation establishing

3113

enlarging

3241

Dick, J. Henry, may bring suit in Court of Claims for Cher-

okees, to determine validity of laws

restricting alienation , etc ..

1028

Dick, James M.,

pension increased .

2772

Dick, Lewis, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Dick, Robert,

pension increased....

1905

Dickens , Sarah Ellen (widow),
pension... Dickens, Sarah J. (widow),
pension increased ..
Dickerson, Stephen, pension increased .

Page. 1988
1523
1576

Dickey, John,

pension increased .

2229

Dickey, Osbert D.,

pension increased .

2188

Dickey, William G., pension increased .

... 2636

Dickey, William N.,

pension..

2144

Dickhof, Wilhelm ,

pension increased .

1995

Dickinson, James K. ,

pension increased .

2191

Dickinson, Joseph B.,

pension increased .

1985

Dickinson, Orville,

pension increased .

2601

Dickson, Fred,

payment to.

2152

Dickson, Joseph,

pension increased ..

1952

Dicus, Hugh L.,

pension increased ..

2537

Diddock, Margaret La Flesche, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Dieckgraefe, Louis,

pension..

1444

Diedrich, Paul,

pension increased ...

2356

Diefenbach, Carrie (widow),

pension increased ..

2603

Diehl, Daniel D.,

pension increased .

1612

Diehl, Milton,

pension...

2003

Dieter, Philip,

pension...

2484

Dietz, John,

pension increased .....

2052

Digest of International Law,

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing

John Bassett Moore...

1372

Digest of the Rules, House of Representatives,

appropriation for preparing...

392

Digest of United States Customs Laws and

Decisions,

appropriation for purchase of manuscript

and preparing..

840

Digests ofLaws,

appropriation for preparing, for Congress,

etc ...

753

Dightman, George W.,

pension increased ..

1554

Dike, R. W., Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

365

Dilg, Fred,

pension increased..

1674

Dill, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased..

1583

Dill, Robert R.,

pension increased ..

2469

Dilts, Daniel,

pension increased ..

1690

Diocese of Washington, D. C. , Convention of,

powers and authority of corporation

amended ...

875

Diphtheria, D. C.,

provisions to prevent spread of..

889

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--50

3382

INDEX.

Diplomatic and Consular Service,

Page.

appropriation for diplomatic service .... 286, 916

for salaries, ambassadors and ministers . 286, 916

for agent, etc. , Cairo ....

287, 917

officials not to receive other salary . 287, 917

for chargés d'affaires ad interim..... 287, 917

for salaries, secretaries of embassies and

legations... for instruction and transit pay.

287, 917 288,918

for transportation of diplomatic and con-

sular officers ; allowance, etc ..

288

for clerks at embassies and legations ; new

appointees to be citizens..

288, 918

for interpreters to embassies and lega-

tions ..

288, 918

for student interpreters, China and

Japan...

288, 918

for clerks, Great Britain.

289, 919

for contingent expenses, missions .

289, 919

dispatch agents ..

289, 919

printing in Department of State .... 289, 919

foss by exchange..

289, 919

for steam launch, Constantinople .. 289, 919

for ground rent, Tokyo , Japan...

289,919

for rebuilding consular building, Tahiti . 289

for Cape Spartel Light, Tangier .

289, 919

for bringing home criminals.. for life-saving testimonials.

289, 919 290, 919

for expenses, neutrality act .

290, 919

for unforeseen emergencies .

290, 920

for heirs of officers dying abroad .. .. 290, 920

for bringing home remains of officers .. 290 , 920

for Bureau of Weights and Measures .. 290, 920

for Bureau of Customs Tariffs .

290, 920

for Mexican Boundary Commission 291 , 920

for Bureau , Repression of Slave Trade . 291 , 920

for Prison Commission ..

291, 921

for Geodetic Association .

291 , 921

for repairs to legations and consulates .. 291 , 921
for Bureau of American Republics .... 291 , 921 for Permanent Court of Arbitration ... 291 , 921

for International Railway Congress .. 292, 921

for International Sanitary Bureau . 292, 921

for reports Joint High Commission 1898

292

for Alaska-Canada boundary line..... 292, 922

for Canada boundary under treaty of

1842 ....

292, 923

for Saint John River Commission ..

292

estimate for consular buildings ,

China, Korea, and Japan....

292

for purchase of legation premises , Con-

stantinople, Turkey...

293

for transportation of diplomatic and con-

sular officers .

922

for International Seismological Associa-

tion ..

922

for Second International Peace Confer-

ence...

922

for International Fishery Congress .

922

for United States court for China.

922

for consular service....

293, 923

for salaries, consuls-general, consuls, and

consular inspectors .

293, 923

for consul-general, Boma, Kongo Free

State..

293, 923

for consul, Calgary, Canada .

293, 923

for expenses, consular inspectors

293, 923

for consular clerks..

293 , 923

pay increased ...

923

for clerks at consulates..

293, 923

allowance increased .

293

for interpreters , etc., at consulates.. 294, 924

for marshals, consular courts .

294, 925

for consular prisons....

294, 925

Diplomatic and Consular Service-Cont'd . Page.

appropriation for relief and protection of

American seamen

295, 925

for foreign hospitals, Cape Town and

Panama .

295, 925

for Seamen's Institute, Kobe .

295, 925

for rewriting consular regulations .

925

for contingent expenses, consulates ... 295, 926

loss by exchange .

295, 926

for cipher code ..

926

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses, missions ...

27, 48, 635, 1403

for bringing home criminals .

27

for relief and protection of American sea-

men...

27, 667, 1405

for contingent expenses, consulates ...

27 ,

635, 667, 1403

for emergencies ..

27

not to be used for expenses in District

of Columbia .

27

exception, foreign representatives .. 27

for legation buildings , China.

27

for salaries, ministers ..

48, 1403

for rent, legation in China

48

for instruction, etc. , pay, consuls ..

48

for services to American vessels and sea-

men...

48, 667, 1403

for mileage

634

for chargés d'affaires ad interim .

634,

1372, 1405

for interpreters to consulates ...

635

for International Institute of Agriculture. 635

for consular salaries .....

667

for Mexican Boundary Commission

885

for transportation diplomatic and con-

sular officers ..

1372

consular service reorganization.

99

Diplomatic Officers,

appropriation for transportation ; allowance

for ..

288, 922

for paying heirs of, dying abroad

290, 920

for bringing home from abroad remains

of...

290, 920

deficiency appropriation for transportation . 634, 1372

Dirck, David,

pension increased ....

2194

Director of the Census,

appropriation for, statisticians , clerks , etc. 443 , 988

to prepare Official Register...

219

Director of the Mint (see also Mints and Assay

Offices ) ,

appropriation for, examiner, assayer, clerks ,

etc.

409, 955

for freight on bullion and coin.

409, 955

for contingent expenses..

409, 955

for examinations, etc.

409, 956

for incidentals .

409, 956

for collecting precious metals statistics . 409, 956

deficiency appropriation for freight on bul-

lion and coin ...

31, 639

for examinations, etc. duties of, coinage of minor coins ..

31, 1373 132

printing extra copies of annual report 1906. 1424

number increased..

1425

printing extra copies statistics of precious

metals 1905 .

1425

number increased .

1425

Disability , Pensionable,

age of 62 and over considered a permanent

specific...

133

Disbursing Officer's Checks,

issue of duplicate of lost ; limit removed... 301

not exceeding fifty dollars .

301

INDEX .

3383

Discharges, Army,

Page.

effect of final honorable discharge on previ-

ous service; officers included ...

836

conditions ..

836

Discriminating Duties,

proclamation suspending, on imports from

Panama ...

3038

Discriminations, Railway,

regulations to prevent unjust interstate.... 584

penalty for giving or receiving ..

587

Diseases of Horses, Special Report on,

new edition ordered ; distribution ...

1425

Diseases, Quarantinable,

appropriation for preventing introduction

of yellow fever and other.

301

Dismal River Forest Reserve, Nebr.,

appropriation for station building...

696

Dispatch Agents,

appropriation for, London, New York, and

San Francisco ...

289, 919

Distilled Spirits,

deficiency tax provisions applied to spirits recovered from fortified sweet wines . 215

Distilleries,

producing alcohol for denaturation only, of

small capacity; special regulations .. 1250

Distinctive Paper, National Currency, appropriation for expenses....

706, 1313

Distinctive Paper, United States Securities,

appropriation for expenses...

706, 1313

District Attorneys, United States Courts,

appropriation for salaries, etc ..

753, 1360

Idaho and California, southern district . 754

clerks in vacation ....

754

clerks and messengers New York,

southern district..

754

northern district of Illinois .

1360

southern district of New York.

1360

for regular assistants .. for special assistants

754, 1361 754, 1361

deficiency appropriation for salaries , etc ... 40, 41, 657, 667, 1403

for special assistants

41, 657

appointment for United States court for

China ; salary ; tenure ..

816

to prosecute violations of Pure Food Act.. 769

District Courts,

appropriation for judges.

447,992

concurrent jurisdiction in cases under im-

migration act....

907

to issue writs of mandamus to compel com-

pliance with interstate commerce

regulations...

594

jurisdiction in naturalization of aliens ..

596

District Judges,

appropriation for salaries..

447, 992

for expenses outside of district ..

755, 1361

deficiency appropriation for, Alabama,

northern district..

1390

Nebraska, additional.

1390

New Jersey and Washington

41

New York, southern district, addi-

tional...

657

Ohio, southern district, additional .

1390

Oklahoma..

1390

additional, provided for Arizona, eastern

and western districts..

283

California. northern district .

1253

Nebraska ...

997

New York, southern district .

202

Ohio, southern district..

928

Oklahoma, eastern and western districts . 275

designation of judge from another circuit permitted to act for disabled ...... 1417
provided for Alabama, northern district.... 931

District of Columbia,

Page .

appropriation for expenses (half from

Treasury, half from District reve-

nues )..

482, 1119

forgeneral expenses, executive office . 482, 1119

plumbing board reorganized ... for assessor's office .

483 483, 1120

for excise board ..

483, 1121

for personal tax board . for collector's office..

484, 1121 484, 1121

for auditor's office ...

484, 1121

for corporation counsel's office .

484, 1121

for sinking fund office ..

484, 1121

for coroner's office ..

484, 1121

for market masters' , etc.

484, 1121

charges, etc., for street markets ..

485

for sealer ofweights and measures, etc. 485, 1122

for engineer's office .....

485, 1122

for special assessment office...

487, 1123

for street-sweeping office ..

487, 1123

for board of examiners, steam engi-

neers ...

487, 1124

for insurance department .

487, 1124

forsurveyor's office..

487, 1124

for free public library . for contingent expenses .
restriction on use of horses, etc.

487, 1124 488, 1125 488, 1125

use for fire insurance prohibited ... 488, 1125

stable expenses ..

488, 1125

postage.. rent .

488, 1125 489, 1125

collecting personal taxes .

489, 1125

judicial expenses...

489, 1125

coroner's, etc., expenses .

489, 1126

advertising . enforcing game and fish laws .

489, 1126 489, 1126

for municipal building...

489, 1126

for survey of dangerous, etc., build-

ings .
for property yard .. for almshouse cemetery .

489, 1126 489, 1126
489

for tablets to mark historical places.. 489, 1126

for book typewriters Recorder's office ;

to be used for recording..

489

for repair shop....

1126

for addition to Eastern Market house

1126

for motor vehicle tags...

1126

for card index , register of wills .

1126.

for eliminating grade crossings , Union

Station....

490, 1126

improvement of plaza..

1127

for assessment and permit work.

490, 1127

for paving roadways ...

1127

for work on streets and avenues ; sched-

ules ....

490, 1127

streets paved with Belgian blocks not

to be improved ...

490, 1127

for paving approaches to Connecticut

avenue bridge ; time extended ...... 1128

sewerage pumping station ....

1128.

for paving Twenty-third from Q street

to Sheridan circle ..

1128

for paving South Carolina avenue .

1128

for paving Florida avenue, Eighteenth street to Connecticut avenue ....................... 1128

for grading streets, etc ..

490, 1128

for condemning streets , etc........... 491, 1128

for opening, etc. , alleys and minor streets ; employment of counsel .. 491 , 1128
for county roads, construction , etc .... 491 , 1128

condemning land for extension of Mas-

sachusetts avenue ..

492

for repairs, streets, etc.. immediately available .

492, 1129 1130.

3384

INDEX.

District ofColumbia-- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for curbs and sidewalks .. 492 , 1130

new highway plan for northwest sec-

tion of District..

1130

for repairs, county roads . for bridges..
Aqueduct, repairs , etc. maintenance of highway..

492, 1130 492, 1130
1130 492, 1130

completing Connecticut avenue .

492

reconstructing Anacostia ; approaches,

etc .....

492

operation of Anacostia.

1130

over railroad tracks, Brookland ..

1130

plans, etc. , for Rock Creek Valley in

the city..

1131

for sewers, constructing, etc.

494, 1131

for streets, cleaning, etc.

495 , 1131

for removing snow and ice.

495 , 1132

for disposal of city refuse .

495 , 1132

for parking commission..

495, 1132

for bathing beach..

495, 1132

for public scales; pumps .

495, 1132

for playgrounds....

495, 1132

purchase of new sites .

1132

for public convenience stations .

495, 1132

for harbor and river front..

495

for condemning insanitary buildings . 496, 1132

for electrical department....

496, 1132

moving fire-alarm apparatus to new

municipal building.

1133

for lighting expenses ..

496, 1133

annual reports required from gas com-

panies...

1133

electric light, etc. , companies .

1134

for Washington Aqueduct....

497, 1135

for Dalecarlia reservoir..

1135

for filtration plant. for Rock Creek Park.

497, 1135 497, 1135

for public schools .. for instruction of deaf and dumb.

498, 1135 503, 1142

colored deaf-mute children ...

503, 1142

for police department .. for fire department.. for health department ..
public crematory.. for court of appeals reports . for juvenile court..
for police court.... for lunacy writs ..
for justices of the peace. for interest and sinking fund . for emergency fund ....

503, 1142 504, 1144 505, 1145
1146 507, 1146 507, 1147 .507, 1147 507, 1147 507, 1147 508, 1147 508, 1147

for support of convicts out of the Dis-

trict. for court-house...

508, 1148 508, 1148

for metal file cases, clerk's office.. for rebinding, etc. , old records. for jail... for expenses, supreme court .. for board of charities .....

1148 1148 508, 1148 1148 508, 1148

for reformatories and correctional insti-

tutions ...

508, 1149

for medical charities .

510, 1151

tuberculosis hospital .. for care of children , etc.

1151 511 , 1152

for temporary homes, etc. for support, etc. , of insane .
for relief, etc. , of the poor.. for militia expenses.. for water meters ..

512, 1153 512, 1153 512, 1153 513, 1154
513

for water department ..

514, 1154

repayment of penalty to Holly Manu-

facturing Company.

515

District of Columbia - Continued .

Page.

appropriation for employment of tempo-

rary draftsmen , etc. , on sewers,

streets, etc ....

515, 1155

laborers and mechanics .

515, 1156

horses, wagons, etc ..

515, 1156

water department temporary employ-

ees ....

516, 1156

employees to be paid from miscella-

neous trust-fund deposits.......... 516, 1157 limit on requisitions from Treas-

ury .. advances; reimbursement..

516, 1157 516, 1157

cost of street extensions wholly from

District revenues..

517, 1157

for public crematorium..

124

for monument to Commodore John

Barry..

223

for monument to John Paul Jones .

224

for public buildings and grounds... 421 , 1341

for court of appeals ..

447, 992

for supreme court.

447, 992

for Zoological Park.

704, 1311

for burial of indigent soldiers in.

740, 1346

for court-house , repairs.....

750, 1357

for Reform School, new buildings .. 751 , 1358

for fees, district attorney, for..

754, 1360

for Reform School , maintenance . 758, 1364

for Columbus memorial...

1413

for site, etc., Stephenson Grand Army

memorial..

1424

deficiency appropriation for public

schools .

31, 641, 1377

for instruction of colored deaf mutes...

37

for Reform School , plans for new build-

ing..

40

for repairs, etc. , Reform School .

40

for court-house , repairs..

40

for contingent expenses

119, 640, 1377

for fire department...

119, 642, 1378

salaries, reorganization .

642

for removing garbage, etc.

119

for postage. for judicial expenses .

640, 1377 640

for coroner's office .

640, 1376

for advertising..

640, 1377

for public library..

640

for resurvey, addition to Georgetown

640

for extending Fourteenth street .

640, 1377

for widening V street...

640

for bathing beach..

641

for harbor and river front .

641

for cleaning streets....

641

for extending certain streets and avenues,

from District revenues ..

641 , 1377

for electrical department ..

641

for Washington Aqueduct....

642

for police . for health department..

642 642, 1378

for pole court.

642, 1379

for Board of Children's Guardians ..

642

for Washington Asyluin....

642, 1379

for lunacy writs ....

643, 1379

forjudgments against.

643, 1380

for militia..

643, 1378

for alleys..

643

for Industrial Home School...

643

for William F. M. McCarty, gas investigation ....
for police court building. for assessor's office...

669 886 1376

for wholesale producers' market .

1377

for Eastern Dispensary.

1378

for Garfield Hospital ..

1379

INDEX .

3385

District ofColumbia--Continued . deficiency appropriation for support of insane ..
for juvenile court .. for support of convicts . for feeble-minded children ... for refund of taxes on educational and
religious properties ..... abandonment of wife or child made a mis-
demeanor..
penalty; allowances, etc. abatement of nuisances by Commissioners,
on failure of owner.. cost assessed as tax; criminal prosecu-
tion ..... entry on land, etc. , authorized .
penalty for preventing, etc .. service of notice ...
acknowledgment of deeds, etc., in Guam, Samoa, and Canal Zone..
alien ownership restriction removed from Nicola Masino....
alley vacated, block 21 , Center Eckington . closing in squares 330 and 547
appointment of midshipmen from.. births to be reported to health officer; regu-
lations .. board of medical examiners, times of meet-
ings changed.. building lines established on streets less
than 90 feet wide ....
concurrence of all Commissioners to permit projections beyond..
coal deliveries ; penalty for failing to provide certificate of weight with load..
condemnation of certain suburban triangles for reservations, authorized ...

88858

Page.
1379 1379 1379 1379
1380
86 87
114
114 115 115 115
552
299 521 847 578
1010
1412
384
385
94
787

condemning insanitary buildings, board

created .....

157

powers and proceedings

157

conduit under Seventh street for refrigera-

tion extended ..

93

Congressional Cemetery, certain restric-

tions repealed....

1236

Congressional committee on proposed addi-

tions to Rock Creek Park ....

788

contagious diseases, regulations to prevent

spread of certain....

889

contracts for construction ; retent for re-

pairs to be held ....

94

extended to completed buildings, etc .. 929

contracts for work, etc.; bond not required

ifamount not more than $500 ....

546

conveyance of land between Anacostia

River channel and certain squares .. 1237

court expenses to be paid half from Dis-

trict revenues...

763

estimates to be submitted by Commis-

sioners ..

764

crematorium for bodies of persons in public

charge dying from contagious dis-

eases, etc ..

123

location, fees, etc..

123

damages from change of grade by Phila-

delphia, Baltimore and Washington

Railroad to be borne by.

625

refund of one-half from Treasury .

625

damages to property, Union Station con-

struction; benefits from abolishing

grade crossings to be considered ... 619

pay of commissioners increased ..

619

defacing property, etc. , penalty increased . 126

electric plants in executive or municipal

buildings, prohibited ; exception ... 1371

District of Columbia - Continued .

Page.

employment agencies regulations...

304

additional penalties for violating regu-

lations, etc ..

848

extension of Washington, Spa Spring and

Gretta Railroad Company...

894

fire alarms, punishment for giving false ..

220

fire department reorganization..

314

fire escapes, etc. , required on certain

buildings in..

70

modified ...

1247

firearms regulations, additional .

809

fish wharf regulations authorized ..

72

game birds and animals, regulations ..

808

Geneseo place NW., name changed to

Summit place..

846

hay scales regulations authorized!.

72

highway bridge, time extended for com-

pleting..

821, 1419

highway plan for part of northeast section

to be made ..

1244

in northwest section..

1130

highway system, changes authorized in ... 800

incorporations, American Cross of Honor... 161

Archæological Institute of America.... 203

Carnegie Foundation for the Advance-

ment of Teaching....

59

Convention of Diocese of Washington ... 875

Edes Home....

162

Great Council, Improved . Order of Red

Men ......

117

Hungarian Reformed Confederation ... 1226

International Sunday School Association 867

National Child Labor Committee ..... 914

National Education Association of the

United States.....

80-4

National German-American Alliance .. 928

National Safe Deposit, Savings and Trust

Company, name changed...

868

National Society, Sons of the American

Revolution ..

227

Supreme Lodge, Knights of Pythias,

property holdings...

934

charter amended, Masonic Mutual Relief

Association ...

214

Grand Lodge Independent Order of

Odd Fellows may sell Odd Fellows

Hall ....

614

purchase, etc., of other property

authorized ..

614

Eastern Star Home, name changed to

Masonic and Eastern Star Home;

directors added ...

92

indecent exposure, etc. , penalty increased . 127

intoxicating liquors, sale prohibited near Insane Asylum and Home for Aged.. 870

intoxicating liquors to minors ; prohibition

extended .

1248

juvenile court established ; jurisdiction,

etc ..

73

license tax, storing, etc. , kerosene, explo-

sives, fireworks, gasoline, etc ...

13

medical supervisors to succeed board of

supervisors of medicine and phar-

macy; powers modified ..

1005

milk bottle regulations.....

1006

monument by volunteer firemen permitted

on reservation No. 29 ...

788

pensions, police and fire department,.

extended ....

95

extended to inspectors.

1003

pharmacy regulations ..

175

board of pharmacy created ..

1005

old board of pharmaceutical examiners

abolished ..

1005

3386

INDEX.

District of Columbia - Continued . police reorganization ....
promotion of privates, etc.. public schools, free tuition to nonresident
pupils extended .......

Page. 221 1252
113

compulsory education of children , pro-

visions..

219

reorganization of administration ..

316

railroad sidings permitted across V street between Fifth and Baltimore and

Ohio right of way....

521

parking of N street between First and

Second NE. for unloading municipal

materials ...

521

recorder of deeds may copy old records ;

limit ...

994

registered nurses ' regulations ..

887

release of title to lands in, devised by John

C. Rives..

2139

sale of house 204 L street NW. authorized .. 820

squares 1131 and part of 1117, to Sidney

Bieber directed ..

787

sales by weight or measure ; restriction .. 315 , 854

berries, poultry, and vegetables ...... 315, 854 sealer of weights and measures ; guaranty

of bonding company allowed .

94

soldier organization, etc. , insignia, un-

authorized use of, forbidden; pen-

alty ......

62

speed regulations for automobiles and

other vehicles ; penalties .....

621

statues, site to be selected for Longfellow.. 830

streets, etc. , Barnaby road declared a pub-

lic highway.

1011

condemnation proceedings under code.. 151

Douglas changed to Clifton ..

835

extension of Albemarle street NW .

1225

extension of Euclid street .

236

extension of Fessenden street NW.

855

extension of Forty-fifth street NW.

1004

extension of Fourth street NE .

857

extension of Franklin street NE .

844

extension of Geneseo place NW.

846

extension of Harvard street NW.

856

extension of Kalorama road ..

616

extension of Kenyon street NW.

856

extension of Macomb street NW.

853

extension of Meridian place NW .

846

extension of Monroe street NE

1222

extension of New Hampshire avenue to

District line...

1004

extension of Park place ..

1012

extension of Rhode Island avenue NE .... 15

extension of School street NW.

882

extension of Second street NW .

845

extension of Seventeenth street NW .

854

extension of Seventh street NE..

844

extension of Sherman avenue ; reassess-

ment of benefits ..

630

extension of Sixth street NE .

844

extension of Summit place NW.

846

extension of T street NW..

1001

extension of Twenty-third street NW.

847

extension of W street NW..

845

extension of W and Adams streets NW.. 1008

opening highway, Water Side drive to

Park road, D. C ..

855

opening Mills avenue NE..

1244

opening ofWarren and Forty- sixth streets

NW..

994

opening parkway Sixteenth street to

Rock Creek Park ..

1000

part of T street changed to California

street..

50

District ofColumbia-Continued.

Page.

streets, etc. , Sixth street north of V street

Center Eckington, abandoned ................. 521

use of parking, by adjacent owners,

error corrected ...

112

vacation of Alexander place and Poplar

street ....

885

widening of Bladensburg road .

843

widening Columbia road, east of Six-

teenth street ....

844

taking away property of another, penalty

increased ..

127

taxes refunded to certain educational and

religious institutions...

869

veterinary regulations....

870

Washington and Western Maryland Rail-

road Company, extension of line

authorized...

532

may obtain land for tracks, stations, etc. ,

by purchase or condemnation ..

534

time of construction extended ....

536

Washington Market Company may erect

ice plant, etc..

873

District of Columbia Code,

return from President requested of bill to

amend ..

2838

District of Columbia Code Amendments,

Sec. 9, justices of the peace to issue war-

rants for arrests ..

126

Sec. 491a, petition for condemnation of

land for streets ..

151

Sec. 491b, contents of petition ..

151

Sec. 491c , notice of proceedings.

151

Sec. 491d , selection of jury .

152

Sec. 491e, jury proceedings ..

152

Sec. 491f, consideration of parts of lots af-

fected ..

152

Sec. 491g, determining damages and bene-

fits ...

152, 930

where parts of lots, etc. , are taken..

930

Sec. 491h, hearing in court ; new jury .

153

Sec. 4911, payments of damages, on con-

firmation ..

153

Sec. 491j , assessment of benefits on confir-

mation; credit for damages ..

153

Sec. 491k, amendments to petition, etc. ,

allowed ...

153

Sec. 4911 , compensation to jurors ..

153

Sec. 491m , appeals to court of appeals; not

to delay work, etc ..

153

Sec . 491n , awards to parties not found , etc. 154

Sec. 558, notaries public; permitting prac-

tice before Departments, etc.

622

Sec. 713, reports to Comptroller from all

savings and trust institutions ..

458

power of Comptroller to take possession . 458

foreign companies; publications..

458

Sec. 714, examinations by Comptroller..

459

Sec. 878a, meaning of specified words, milk-

bottle provisions..

1006

Sec. 878b, registry of private ownership of

bottles, marks, etc.

1006

Sec. 878c, punishment for unlawful use of

bottles, etc ...

1007

Sec. 878d , prima facie evidence of unlawful

use .

1007

Sec. 878e, jurisdiction of complaints ..

1007

Sec. 878f, regulations, forms, etc. , to be

made ..

1007

Sec. 878g, actions in tort by trade-mark

owners not affected ..

1007

Sec. 927, insane criminals, provision to in-

clude trials, etc. , on information ... 113

Sec. 1537, service on corporations, em-

ployee added ....

874

INDEX.

3387

District of Columbia, Commissioners ofthe, Page.

appropriation for salaries.

482, 1119

authority in establishing building lines.. 384

concurrence of all, necessary for projections

beyond building lines....

385

directed to report on improvement of Ana-

costia flats ....

2829

duties in abating nuisances, on failure of

12

owner of property.

114

in control of fire department .

314

under fire escapes act..

70

police reorganization ...

221

engineer, to serve on commission on consol-

idating, etc. , public schools ...

321

to enforce employment agency law; hearing

of complaints, etc....

309

to make regulations for sale of fish wharf

privileges .....

72

to prevent spread of certain contagious

diseases ...

890

public hay scales .

72

to prepare new highway plan, northwest

section ..

1130

for part of northeast section.

1244

to submit estimates for court expenses .

764

Dittman, Fritz,

pension increased .

2617

Ditto, Joshua S.,

pension increased.......

1966

Dix, John P.,

pension increased .

2402

Dixie Forest Reserve, Utah,

proclamation establishing ..

3147

Dixon, Adam ,

pension increased .

2084

Dixon, Alexander,

pension increased...

2364

Dixon, Ill.,

construction of public building authorized

at ..

776

appropriation for.. Dixon, John M.,
pension increased .

791 , 1297 2626

Dixon, Wiley H.,

pension increased .

1996

Dixon, William,

pension increased .

1628

Dixson, Alexander,

pension increased .

2252

Djureen, Ernst H. ,

deficiency appropriation for services ..... 1395

Doan, Caroline M. (widow),

pension increased .

1499

Doan, Isaac S.,

pension increased .

2335

Doane, James G.,

pension increased .

1550

Dobson, William,

pension increased ..

2510

Document Room , House ofRepresentatives,

appropriation for superintendent , assist-

ants, etc ....

395, 941

deficiency appropriation for superintend-

ent...

662

Document Room , Senate,

appropriation for superintendent ,assistants,

etc ..

390, 935

Documents, Congressional,

orders to print extra copies; requirements. 1013

estimates required of cost for printing.

1013

from Departments, etc. , submitting .

1013

exception..

1013

when charged to Congress allotment..

1013

classification of; numbering, etc.

1013

binding and distribution ...

1014

Documents, Public, deficiency appropriation for advertising sale of, accumulated cost of composition, illustrations, etc. , of, chargeable to Department, etc. , preparing.. printing, binding, etc. , charged in proportion as delivered .. otherwise distributed ..
for Congress may be printed in two or more editions, instead of one ; maximum .
Departments, etc. , may be supplied in two or more editions instead of one; maximum .
full number authorized when necessary.. to be sent to library of Philippine govern-
ment ....
Documents, Senate and House, classification of; numbering, etc
Documents, Superintendent of, administration expenses of office to be specifically appropriated for, etc .... postponed for one year; estimates to be made..
Dodds, Lafayette, pension increased .
Dodge, Orvil, pension increased .
Dodge, Reuben D., pension increased .
Dodge, Richard, pension increased .
Dodson, Levi, pension increased...
Dodson, Palmetto ( widow), pension increased ...
Doe, Erastus A., pension increased.
Doersch, John M., pension increased .
Doherty, William H., pension increased ..
Dolan, John, pension increased .
Domestic Commerce,
five great coasting districts established ; divisions
Dominican Republic, appropriation for minister resident and consul-general ... for secretary of legation. proclamation prohibiting export of arms , etc. , to .
Donahue, Patrick J., pension increased..
Donaldson, Lovisa (widow), pension increased..
Donnald, Ella (widow), pension increased ..
Donnelly, Douglas V. , pension increased .
Donnelly, Stewart J., pension increased ..
Donohoe, Owen, pension increased ...
Donovan, Ellen (widow), pension increased ..
Donovan, John W. , payment to .
Dooley, Frank M., pension....
Doolittle, Samuel, pension increased .

Page. 1398
825 825 825 826
826 826 850 1014
1014 1399 1598 2716 2276 2449 2299 1874 2610 1540 1871 1600
190
917 917 3183 1613 2286 2198 2490 2058 1574 2127 1818 2111 2422

3388

INDEX .

Doorkeeper, House of Representatives,

Page.

appropriation for, assistant, messengers,

etc.

394, 940

Dopp, James,

pension increased

2498

Dorchester Bay, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

dition...

1074

Dorin, Charles,

pension increased .

1882

Dorman, James W.,

pension increased

1977

Dorman, North Ann (widow),

pension increased .

2027

Dorn, Andrew,

pension increased .

2026

Dorn, E. J.,

appropriation for reimbursing .

1293

Dorrel, Nicholas W.,

pension increased .

2358

Dory, Francis A. ,

pension increased .

2686

Dotey, Hyacinth (widow),

pension increased ..

2140

Dothan, Ala.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for..

792, 1297

Doty, Hiram B.,

pension increased .

1452

Doty, Martin B.,

pension increased .

2172

Doud, Edmond D. ,

pension increased .

... 2406

Dougal, Joseph,

pension increased

1798

Dougherty, Ellen (widow) , pension.
Dougherty, James, payment to..
Dougherty, Mary E. (widow), pension increased .

2725 2661 2710

Dougherty, Sarah Jane (widow),

pension increased .

2213

Doughty, Francis,

pension increased .

2626

Doughty, Joseph W.,

pension increased .

2133

Doughty, Lafayette,

pension increased .

2634

Douglas, Alonzo,

pension increased .

1691

Douglas County, Wash. ,

bridge authorized across Columbia River,

between Kittitas County and ..

109

· Douglas Memorial Methodist Episcopal Church,

D. C.,.

taxes refunded ..

869

Douglas, Robert H.,

pension increased .

2805

Douglas Street, D. C.,

name changed to Clifton .

385

Douglass, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

1969

Douglass, Blanche (daughter) ,

pension.

1574

Dover, N. H.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for..

793, 1297

Dover, N. J., Army Powder Depot,

appropriation for storehouse for reserve sup-

ply .

732, 1340

for machinery.

732

for transportation facilities ..

732, 1340

Dover, N. J., Army Powder Depot-Cont'd .
appropriation for fire protection, etc for light, power, and heating plants .. for officers' quarters...

Page . 732 1340 1340

Dover, N. J., Naval Magazine,

appropriation for public works ...... 567, 1189

Dow, William B. ,

pension increased .

2286

Dowan, Daniel , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

373

Dowdall, Hanson , and McNeill,

appropriation for services...

1291

Dowland, Frederick J.,

pension increased .

2390

Dowling, Clarissa L. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2093

Dowling, Thomas F. ,

pension..

1785

Downey, John,

pension increased .

2780

Downey, Maurice,

pension increased .

1453

Downie, Elizabeth A. (widow),

pension..

2388

Downing, Carry, Indian Allottee,

'alienation restrictions removed ..

345

Downing, Ellen (widow) ,

pension increased .

2386

Downing, George, pension increased .
Downs, Michael, pension increased .

2450 2559

Doxtater (Compsom) , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

380

Doxtater, Dolly Ann , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

380

Doxtater, Jacob, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

380

Doxtater, Truman, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

381

Doyle, Michael,

pension increased

2293

Doyle, Terrance,

pension increased .

2548

Doyle, William B.,

pension increased .

2785

Dragger, Lewis, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

346

Drainage Investigations,
appropriation for expenses of.. Drake, George B. ,
pension increased

694, 1279 2444

Drake, George M.,

pension increased

1564

Drake, Morris B.,

pension increased .

1716

Drake, Phebe W. (widow), pension..
Drake, William F., pension increased
Drake, William J., pension increased .

2144 1900 1988

Draper, Solomon,

pension increased .

2442

Dredge for Oregon and Washington Waters,

appropriation for construction .....

1107

Dredges, leases, etc., of, authorized for river and har-

bor improvements Great Lakes and

North Atlantic coast ...

1119

Dredges, Foreign-Built,

undocumented , not permitted to operate in

United States ..

204

employed at Galveston , Tex . , may be docu-

mented ..

204

INDEX .

3389

Dreppard, Arthur R.,

Page.

pension increased

1742

Dresden, Germany,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

Dreury, James,

pension increased

1851

Drew, Timothy, pension increased
Drink, articles used for, included as "food " in pure-food act
Dripps, George W. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to .

2443 769 374

Driscoll, F. H. , payment to .
Driscoll, Mary ( widow), pension increased ..

... 1769 1556

Drott, Ernst,

payment to .

2661

Drown, William D. ,

pension increased

2103

Drug Adulterations (see Pure Food Act) .

Druggists, D. C. (see Pharmacy Regulations , D. C.).

Drugs,

appropriation for investigations of adultera-

tions ..

1271

for expenses, preventing sale of adulter-

ated, etc..

1272

includes all substances for cure, etc. , of

man or animals .

769

Drugs, D. C. (see also Pharmacy Regulations) ,

regulations of the sale of....

175

Dry-Land Farming Experiments,

lease of public lands in Chouteau County,

Mont., for .

552

Dry Straits, Alaska,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1111

Dry Tortugas,

detention grounds at, for vessels infected

with yellow fever...

299

Dryden, John D.,

pension increased .

2772

Du Bois, Charles E.,

pension increased .

2689

Du Bois, Lewis,

pension increased .

1949

Duane, Mary C. (widow),

pension increased .

1633

Dublin, Ireland,

classification and salary of consul..

99

Dubois, Samuel,

pension increased .

2733

Dubray, Joseph, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

374

Dubuque, Iowa,

terms of court ..

912

Duby, Charles, alias Louis Deshemeau,

pension increased .

2417

Duck Island, Conn.,

further examination of, to be made for har-

bor of refuge..

1112

Duck River, Tenn.,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1117

Dudley, Erwin G. ,

pension increased ..

1816

Duff, James A. ,

pension increased .

2032

Duff, John J.,

pension increased .

2574

Duffield, Henry D. ,

pension increased .

2184

Duffield, Sarah (mother) ,

pension...

1710

Duffield, William W. , pension increased .

Page. 2682

Duffy, Bridget M. (widow),

pension increased .

2240

Duffy, Edward,

pension increased

1862

Duffy, Mary (widow),

pension increased

1589

Duggan, George,

payment to.

2661

Duggar, Isaac L.,

pension increased .

1958

Dugger, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1939

Duluth, Minn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor... 738, 1101, 1345

board to reexamine, etc...

1102

for range light station , additional land . 1318

acquiring land for and extending public

building at, authorized ..

775

appropriation for..

790, 1297

extension to public building, authorized,

etc.

1238

use of appropriations .

1238

survey, etc. , of harbor directed

2832

Dummer, Samuel R.,

pension increased

1764

Dumont, Philip,

pension increased

2033

Dunbar, Edward R. ,

pension increased

2326

Duncan, Ind. T. ,

terms of court, etc. , recording district

No. 29.

343

Duncan, Louisa (widow),

pension increased ..

2537

Duncan, Mary A. (widow), pension increased ..
Duncan, William R. , pension increased .
Dundee, Scotland, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire.......
Dunfermline, Scotland, classification and salary of consul ..
Dungan, Milton R., pension increased

2270 1717
99 294, 924
99 2236

Dunham, Andrew M.,

pension increased

1589

Dunkin, Manoah W.,

pension increased .

2461

Dunkirk, N. Y. ,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made ..

1115

Dunlap, George W. ,

pension increased

1937

Dunlap, James R.,

pension increased .

2630

Dunlap, Martha A. (widow);

pension increased

2099

Dunlap, Richard,

pension increased

2049

Dunn, Andrew M.,

pension increased .

2640

Dunn, Harvey T.,

pension increased .

1625

Dunn, John P.,

pension increased

1850

Dunn, Michael,

pension increased

2624

Dunnan, Samuel,

pension increased .

1593

Dunning, Andrew, pension increased .

... 1625

3390

INDEX.

Dunning, Austin S., pension increased .
Dunning; Charles H., pension increased .
Dunscomb, Edward, pension..
Dunton, Elizabeth C. (widow), pension increased .
Dupins, John, fee-simple title to .
Duplat, José March, may be admitted for instruction to Military
Academy.. Duplicate Bond,
issued to Charles L. Allen ...

Page . 2445 1983 2742 1497 349
1423 1940

Duplicate Checks, etc. ,

issue in lieu of lost or stolen, authorized

after six months

84, 301

after thirty days if not more than $50 ... 84, 301

Duplicate Gold Certificates,

issued to Lincoln National Bank, Lincoln,

Ill....

1714

Dupuis, Alfred, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Dupuis, Angelique, restrictions removed from allotment to..... 373

Dupuis, Frederick A. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

357

Dupuis, George W. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Dupuis, Maud N. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Durango, Colo. ,

grant of lands for water supply; price, etc .. 1053

Durango, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul.....

100

Durban, South Africa,

classification and salary of consul ..

99

Durfey, Edwin C.,

pension increased .

2604

Durgin, Albert F.,

pension increased

2458

Durgin, Daniel E., pension increased

: 1907

"During the Session,

to mean 119 days..

396

to mean 212 days ..

942

Durney, Alice M. (widow),

pension increased ..

1681

Duryea, Mary A. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2179

Dusseldorf, Germany,

classification and salary of consul .....................

100

Dutcher, George N.,

pension increased ..

1564

Duties on Imports , (see also Reciprocity Ar-

rangements ),

free admission of exhibits , Jamestown Ex-

position; conditions

766

Duvall, Eli,

pension increased ..

1886

Duvall, Harriet A. (widow),

pension..

1906

D' Wamish, etc. , Indians, Wash.,

appropriation for support , etc. , of ...... 377, 1050

Dyer, Ellen M. (widow),

pension increased ..

2141

Dyer, George H.,

pension increased .

2385

Dyer, Maria (widow),

pension increased.

1582

Dyke, Amos,

pension increased ..

1896

E.

Page.

Eachus,,Francis J.,

!

pension increased .

2784

Eagle Pass, Tex.,

acquiring site and erecting public building.

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for .

794, 1297

Eagler, Joseph T. ,

pension increased .

2300

Eakin, David F.,

pension increased .

2047

Eaman, James M. ,

pension increased..

2521

Earl, Sarah Agnes (widow),

pension..

1856

Earle, Daniel C.,

pension increased .

1824

Earle Development Company, J. R.,

may dam Savannah River at Andersonville

Shoals .

1240

Earnest, William ,

pension increased .

2644

Earth, International Geodetic Association for

Measurement ofthe,

appropriation for annual quota..

291, 921

Earthquake, Pacific Coast (see also San Francisco Earthquake ).

appropriation for relief of sufferers from . 827 , 828

Earthquake, Valparaiso , Chile,

proclamation asking aid for sufferers by .. 3227

Easley, Phebe (widow),

pension increased .

2248

East Boothbay, Me. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1113

East Chester Creck, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of

1078

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1115

East Liverpool, Ohio,

construction of public building authorized

at .

777

appropriation for .

791 , 1297

East Norwalk, Conn. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1076

East Pass, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of .................. . 1086 East Pearl River, Miss.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1114

East River, N. Y. ,

appropriation for lighting..

712, 1320

for improvement of, and Hell Gate ; re-

survey

1078

preliminary examination of, to be made,

between North and South Brother

islands .

1115

East Saint Louis, Ill.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

778

appropriation for..

792, 1298

East Washington Station Colored Methodist

Episcopal Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded .

869

Eastep, Henry C.,

pension increased ..

2568

Eastern Dispensary, D. C. ,

appropriation for care, etc. , of indigent pa-

tients

510, 1151

deficiency appropriation for indigent pa-

tients

1378

Eastern Market House, D. C.,

appropriation for addition to

1126

Eastern Star Home, D. C.,

title changed by adding " Masonic "

92

Eastman, Demas, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

357

Eastler, Henry C., pension increased . 2051

INDEX.

3391

Easton, Della S. (widow), pension increased........
Easton, Pa. , acquiring site for public building at, authorized ...
appropriation for . Eastwood, James,
pension increased . Eaton, Daniel,
pension increased ..
Eau Claire, Wis., limit of cost increased , public building ...
Ebenezer African Methodist Episcopal Church, D. C. ,
taxes refunded .

Page. 2549
784 795 1468 2159 774
870

Eberlin, Eva Louise (daughter),

pension..

2481

Eberly, John C.,



pension increased ..

1486

Eberts, Peter

pension increased .

2185

Echard, Heart,

pension increased ..

1598

Echo Bay, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of....

1077

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1115

Ecuador, appropriation for minister to ·

287, 917

parcels-post convention with .......

2974

Eddy, James M.,

pension increased ..

1864

Eddy, Levi,

pension increased .

2401

Edes Home, D. C. , The,

incorporated ; purposes , etc.

162

Edgell, J. Frederick,

pension increased.

1708

Edgemon, William T. ,

pension increased ..

1882

Edgerton, Ebenezer S.,

pension increased ....

1606

Edgerton, Fannie I. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1509

Edinburgh, Scotland, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire ..
Edison Electric Company of Wyoming,

99 294, 924

permits to occupy land, etc. , in San Ber-

nardino, Sierra, and San Gabriel for-

est reserves, Cal...

163

Ediz Hook, Wash., fog signal authorized
deficiency appropriation for.. Edmonds, Melvin T.,
pension increased..

324 660
2318

Edmundson, John L.,

pension increased .

1696

Edsall, Clara C. (widow),

pension increased ..

2378

Edsall, Thomas,

pension increased ..

1646

Edson, Jennie E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2290

Education Association of the United States,

National,

incorporated ; purposes, powers, etc.

804

Education, Bureau of, appropriation for Commissioner, etc ..
for books , etc for collecting statistics .
for documents, apparatus, etc. for rent...

clerks, 432, 978 433, 978 433, 978 433, 978 434, 979

employees, etc. , in Alaska may assign pay;

reimbursement for expenses

824

Education, Commissioner of,

Page.

appropriation for, clerks, etc ..

432, 978

for printing and binding Annual Report

of...

760, 1367

to supervise expenses, etc. , education of

Alaska natives, etc ..

1338

Education, D. C. (see Public Schools , D. C.). Education of Children, D. C., Compulsory,
attendance at school of all children between

8 and 14 years old

219

penalty for neglect, etc. , of parent ..

219

instruction of habitual truants

220

truant officers authorized ..

220

penalty for inducing unlawful absence, etc. 220

inspection of places employing minors .... 220 ? penalty for false statements of attendance ,

etc ..

220

Education ofthe Blind,

permanent annual appropriation for ...... 460 Educational Institutions, D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for refund of spe-

cial taxes..

1380

refund of taxes erroneously charged properties of
Edwards, Alanson W., pension increased
Edwards, Charles, alias St. Clair Acuff, pension increased.
Edwards, David A. , pension increased .
Edwards, Jerry, pension increased ..
Edwards, Lydia M. (widow), pension increased .
Edwards, Mary A. (widow), pension increased .
Edwards, Sewall A. , pension increased .

on 869 2714 2204 2429 1884
1805 *2585
1673

Effinger, John,

duties refunded .

2819

Egan, Bridget (widow),

pension increased ..

1927

Egan, James J.,

pension increased .

1510

Egeness, Rachel (widow) ,

pension increased .

2061

Egge, Perry,

pension increased .

1434

Eggleston, Moses,

pension .

1469

Eggleston, William A. ,

pension increased .

1639

Eggs of Game Birds,

prohibition against taking, etc. , from breed-

ing grounds.

536

Egolf, William H.,

pension increased .

1918

Eibenstock, Germany,

classification and salary of consul.......

100

Eichholtz, Augusta T. (widow),

pension increased ..

2450

Eiffert, James,

pension increased .

1529

Eight- Hour Law, not applicable to work on Isthmian Canal . 33 to unskilled alien laborers on Panama

Canal

669

Eighth Judicial Circuit,

appropriation for messenger, etc. , circuit

court of appeals ..

447, 992

Oklahoma judicial districts attached to ... 275

Eighth Light- House District,

deficiency appropriation for repairing, etc .,,

buildings destroyed by hurricanes.. 842

tender authorized for ..

995

appropriation for.

1319

3392

INDEX .

Eighth Street NW. , D. C., deficiency appropriation for expenses extending
Ekalaka Forest Reserve, Mont.,
proclamation establishing... Et Caney, Cuba,
use of transport " Sumner" to convey Commission, etc., to dedication of battle monuments .
El Morro National Monument, N. Mex.,
proclamation setting aside.. Elaterite, etc., Deposits,
lands in Uncompahgre Reservation, Utah, containing, to be sold
Elba, Ala., dam authorized across Pea River near ..
Eldred, Levi E., pension increased .
Eldridge, Esther (widow), pension increased ..

Page. 641
3245
821 3264
3214 18
2643 2437

Eldridge, John, jr.,

pension increased .

1902

Elections, Political,

money contributions by corporations for,

prohibited

864

Electric Cars, Postal Service,

appropriation for mail service by ...... 474, 1213

Electric Light and Power Companies, Indian

Territory, provisions for rights of way, dams, etc.... 146

Electric Light and Power Statistics,

to be collected every five years .

219

Electric Light, etc. , Companies, D. C., detailed annual reports required from .... 1134
Electric- Motor Vessels,
steamboat-inspection provisions for ....... 194 Electric Plants, Army,

appropriation for gun and mortar batteries . 462,

1059

sale of surplus light and power ; use of pro-

ceeds..

... 251 , 1167

Electric Plants, D. C.,

installing, in executive or municipal build-

ings prohibited; exception ...

1371

Electrical Department, D. C., appropriation for salaries ..

496, 1132

for contingent expenses.. for placing wires underground ..

496, 1133 496, 1133

for extending police-patrol system... 496, 1133

for fire-alarm boxes, etc.

496

for moving fire-alarm apparatus to mu-

nicipal buildings ..

1133

for lighting.

496, 1133

for electric arc lights ....

497, 1134

deficiency appropriation for ..

641

Electrical Protection for Vaults , etc. , Public

Buildings, appropriation for..

700, 1306

Electrical Units , International Commitiee of,

appropriation for expenses of delegate . 446, 991

Elevators, Grain,

investigations of business of, ordered

printed

2837

Eleventh Light-House District,

tender for inspector, limit of cost increased . 858

appropriation for..

1318

relief light-vessel for ninth and, to be equip-

ped with motor power .

996

Elizabeth City, N. C.,

appropriation for public building..

698

terms of court ..

1224

Elizabeth, N. J.,

limit of cost increased , public building

773

appropriation for..

1298

Elizabeth River, N. J.,

Page

66 appropriation for improvement of ...................... 1079 "Elizabeth," Schooner,

appropriation for paying damages ... .... 1292

Elk River, Md.,

appropriation for lighting for improvement of...

713, 1320 1081

Elk River, Tenn.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1117

Elk, William, or Runs Bowing, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

356

Elkhorn Forest Reserve, Mont. ,

proclamation establishing

3024

Ellicott, George W.,,

pension increased ..

1697

Ellingwood, Charles F. (father),

pension...

2760

Elliott, Edward E. ,

pension increased .

2024

Elliott, Edwin,

pension increased .

2024

Elliott, Jesse W.,

pension increased .

1538

Elliott, John J.,

pension increased .

2048

Elliott, Silas G.,

pension increased .

1599

Elliott, Thomas R,

pension increased ..

2572

Ellis, Aurora Garwood (widow),

pension increased ..

2558

Ellis, Charles R.,

pension increased..

1590

Ellis, Charley , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed

345

Ellis, Edgar D.,

pension increased ..

2649

Ellis, Howard,

pension increased ..

1639

Ellis, Isabella (widow), pension increased ...
Ellis Island Immigrant Station, N. Y., appropriation for contagious diseases hospital . for remodeling main building deficiency appropriation for two pavilions .
Ellis, Samuel, pension increased ..

2187
1317 1317 842 2675

Ellison, Martin,

pension increased .

2069

Ellmore, Joseph,

pension...

2112

Ellsworth, John W. ,

pension increased .

1482

Elm, Abram, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

380

Elm , Charles, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Elm , Rachel, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Elmes, William ,
pension increased . Elsberry, Thomas S.,
pension increased ..

380 380 1518 2678

Emanuel Protestant Episcopal Church, D. C.,

Vestry of,

taxes refunded ..

870

Embezzlement,

made an extraditable crime, in convention

with Japan..

2951

Embry, Cynthia A. (widow),

pension...

1711

Emblems of Fraternal Societies, registry of, as trade-marks, not allowed .... 1251

INDEX.

3393

Emergencies, Unforeseen,

Page.

appropriation for diplomatic and consu-

lar ..

290, 920

deficiency appropriation for diplomatic

and consular unforeseen .

27

not to be used for expenses, etc. , in

District; exception....

27

Emergency Fund, D. C., appropriation for..

508, 1147

Emergency Fund, Navy Department, deficiency appropriation for..
Emergency Hospital, D. C.,

646, 1384

appropriation for care, etc. , of indigent pa-

tients ...

510, 1151

for repairs and equipment

1151

Emerson, Carlo J.,

pension increased ..

2725

Emerson, Sargent R. ,

pension increased ..

1657

Emery, Daniel R. ,

pension increased .

2677

Emery, Joseph D. ,

pension increased ..

1964

Emes, Anthony,

pension increased.

1810

Emmons, George T.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment

653

Emplacements, Fortifications, appropriation for modernizing older ... 462, 1058

Employees, House ofRepresentatives,
deficiencyappropriation for additional pay, etc. , authorized by resolutions ..... 1397

Employees of Railroads,

hours of labor by, limited..

1415

Employers' Liability, Common Carrier,

for injuries to employees through neglect of

officers, etc.

232

Employment Agencies, D. C. ,

license required ; application requirements;

fees ...

304

bond; issue of license; posting..

305

7 locations prohibited ; child -labor restric-

tions .

306

register; references, etc

306

fees allowed ; receipts ; contracts.

307

restriction on employments .

308

enforcement of regulations..

308

penalty for violations ...

308, 848

Engineer Corps, Army,

appropriation for enlisted men; longev-

ity ..

242, 1160

for pay of officers; longevity.

244, 1162

officer to be designated on commission on

commercial use of surplus waters of the Mississippi in Minnesota .................. . 457

Engineer Department, Army,

appropriation for expenses of depots ... 256, 1173

for purchase of instruments, etc., for offi-

cers ..

256, 1173

for maintenance of school, Washington,

D. C., buildings .

256, 1173

chaplain authorized .

256

for equipment of troops . for services

256, 1174 257, 1174

Engineer Office, War Department, appropriation for clerks , etc.

420, 966

for clerks paid from rivers and harbors ap-

propriations, etc

420

draftsmen, etc. , to be paid from appro-

priations for rivers and harbors, etc .;

limit ......

420, 966

Engineer School, Army,

Page.

appropriation for maintenance and equip-

ment .

256, 1173

for buildings.

1173

Engineering Experimental Station, Naval

Academy,

appropriation for salaries, investigations,

etc.

575, 1197

Engineers , Army, Chief of,

action on plans for improving channels on

New Jersey coast ..

800

authorized to sell 204 L street NW. , Wash-

ington, D. C....

820

to approve plans, etc. , of dam across White

River, Ark .

628

Engineer's Office, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries, record divi-

sion ..

485, 1122

for engineers, superintendents, etc ... 485 , 1122

for contingent expenses....

488, 1125

England (see Great Britain).

England, Tillman, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

345

Engle, Samuel,

pension increased ..

1606

Engler, Lucy E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2071

English, John E.,

return from President requested of bill to

pension....

2834

English, Walter M. ,

pension increased .

2383

Engraving and Printing Bureau, Treasury De-

partment,

appropriation for Director, assistant, etc. 408, 955

limitation

955

for administrative force paid from en-

graving and printing; limitation ... 408

for salaries.

703, 1309

for wages .

703, 1310

requirement for hand press work re-

pealed ...

1310

for materials .

703, 1310

for custody of dies, rolls, and plates .. 707, 1313

deficiency appropriation for employees de-

tailed to Treasurer; reimbursement . 635

for wages; balances transferred ...

637

Enid, Okla.,

terms of court ..

275

Enlisted Men, Army, appropriation for pay.

241, 1160

extra to expert riflemen, sharpshooters,

and marksmen ..

241

deduction from retired , for Soldiers'

Home, repealed ..

242

for longevity.

242, 1160

additional for recruiting and prison

duty

242

for engineer battalion ; longevity . 242, 1160

for Ordnance Department; longevity . 242, 1160

for quartermaster-sergeants; longev-

ity ..

242, 1160

for post commissary-sergeants; longev-

ity .

242, 1160

for electricians , artillery ; longevity .

242

for Signal Corps ..

242, 1160

for Hospital Corps ; longevity .

243, 1161

for pay of retired ..

245, 1163

for travel allowance on discharge . 245, 1163

for undrawn clothing ..

245, 1163

for interest on deposits..

-245, 1163

for repayment of back deposits..

245

for transfer of balance to special deposit

fund ....

246

3394

INDEX .

Enlisted Men, Army--Continued .

Page .

appropriation for extra-duty pay, artillery

and ordnance service

246

for extra-duty pay, artillery and ordnance service, at seacoast fortifica-

tions ...

1163

for switchboard operators at interior

posts ....

1163

for 20 per cent increase, service beyond

the United States .

247, 1164

computation of service .

247

availability of present appropriations . 247

for bringing home from abroad remains

of..

741, 1347

deficiency appropriation for 20 per cent in-

crease, service in Cuba ..

1381

allowances to, detailed at Jamestown Ex-

position ..

1160

to retired ; credit for all service .

1217

distribution of amounts due deceased ,

without administration ; limit .

750

funeral expenses.

750

noncommissioned officers, etc. , for recruit

and prison companies..

1160

savings may be deposited with paymaster. 246

kept as separate deposit fund

246

repayment ; exemption from debts, etc 246

liability of Government for deposits ....... 246

clothing balances to be paid from regular

pay fund .

246

Enlisted Men, Marine Corps,

appropriation for reimbursing, losses San

Francisco fire .

554

for pay. for detailed cooks.

579, 1200 1200

for retired for undrawn clothing .. for interest on deposits..

1200 579, 1201
579, 1201

deficiency appropriation for undrawn

clothing..

649

allowances to retired ; credit for all service . 1217

may deposit savings with paymaster ; in-

terest ..

579

Enlisted Men, Navy, appropriation for pay.

553, 1177

refund of bounty if discharged the first

year..

553, 1177

for reimbursing, losses San Francisco fire. 554

appropriation for outfits ; refund if dis-

charged in six months .

556, 1178

allowed credit for all service in Army,

Navy, and Marine Corps,, for retire-

ment...

451 , 1217

Enrollment of Domestic Vessels, license and, consolidated in one document . 136

Ensenada, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul ............

100

Entomology Bureau, Department of Agricul-

ture, appropriation for salaries...

688, 1273

for general expenses ; tobacco worms , etc.;

white fly.

688, 1273

for emergency fund, cotton boll

weevil..

695, 1280

gypsy and brown-tail moths ..

696, 1280

Envelopes, Postal Service, appropriation for official registry and dead

letter..

476, 1215

contracts extended for six months.

476

contracts for all Departments to be made

by Postmaster-General for four

years ...

476

restriction on printed matter on -stamped ,

for sale..

476

Envoys Extraordinary and Ministers Plenipo- Page.

tentiary, appropriation for salaries.

286, 916

not to be paid officials receiving other

salaries ..

287, 917

Epidemic Diseases,

appropriation for expenses preventing introduction of yellow fever and other . 301

Epaipdpermoircast, ion for prevention of.... 709, 1316

Epileptics,

admission of alien , excluded ...

899

importation of, unlawful ; penalty .

901

Epiphany Church, D. C. ,

taxes refunded ..

869

Episcopal Church in Utah,

grant of lands in former Uintah Reserva-

tion, for missions, etc. , to......

611

Epler, Jacob H., pension increased .

1498

Epperson, Margaret (widow), pension increased ..

2620

Eppinger, William, pension increased .

2276

Equipage, Army, Camp and Garrison, appropriation for..

254, 1171

deficiency appropriation for....... 46, 646,666, 1401

loan authorized to Jamestown Exposition ;

conditions ..

1175

Equipments, Army, appropriation for.
Erick, John J., pension increased .

257, 1175 2076

Erickson, Charles, payment to..

2661

Erie Basin, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of Lake

Erie entrance to ....

737

Erie, Pa. , appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1080

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized ..

775

appropriation for..

791, 1298

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made..

1116

Ernest, Horatio, pension increased.

2460

Ernst , Anton,

granted honorable discharge..

2414

Ernst, Stephen,

pension increased ....

1497

Erwin, Tenn.,

appropriation for fish hatchery.

721

Escambia River, Fla. and Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of......

1087

bridge authorized across, between counties

of Escambia and Santa Rosa, Fla ... 1239

Escanaba, Mich. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

779

appropriation for....

793, 1298

Escheat,

of lands of Five Civilized Tribes, intestate

allottees, having no heirs.....

145

Eskelson, David, lots entered by, in Uintah Indian grazing reserve, restored to public domain .. 3228

Esler, Alexander,

pension increased ..

1826

Esmond, Friend S.,

pension increased ..

2080

Esquimaux, etc. , Alaska ,

appropriation for education of.........

729, 1337

homestead allotments to ; conditions....

197

INDEX .

3395

Esterly, George M. , payment to, for loss of launch....

Page. 2467

Essex River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

tion ..

1075

Estero Bay, Fla. , preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1112

Estes, John C.,

pension increased ..

1644

Estes, Julia W. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1458

Estherville, Iowa,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for.

794

Estherville- Minim Creek Canal, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1084

Estill, William C. (son),

pension..

1787

Estimates,

annual, for Departments, to include all re-

quirements..

448

restriction on additional or special re-

quests...

449

of receipts, expenditures, etc. , to be made

in annual report of Secretary of

Treasury.

949

Estimates, Annual,

all printing and binding for Departments

to be estimated for in...

762

Estimates for Government Expenses,

to be submitted according to arrangement

of previous year..

448

changes to be submitted by notes ..

448

Estlow, James L.,

pension increased...

2271

Ethnology , American, appropriation for continuing researches . 704, 1310

for protecting Casa Grande Ruin, Ariz .. 1310

for printing and binding reports and bul-

letins ...

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for.

1403

Etue, Sarah S. (mother),

pension...

1922

Eubank, James J. ,

pension increased ..

2433

Eubank, John,

pension increased ..

2055

Euclid Place, D. C.,-

deficiency appropriation for extending.... 641

Euclid Street, D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extension

*

of...

236

Eufaula, Ala.,

bridge_authorized across Chattahoochee

River at..

325

two bridges authorized across Chattahoochee River between Columbus and. 325

Eugene, Oreg.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for....

793, 1298

Eulogies,

printing ordered of, on Hon. John W

Cranford ....

826

Eureka, Cal.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for. terms of court at.

792, 1298 631

"Euterpe," Bark,

change of name authorized ..

626

Evans, Bridget (widow),

pension increased ..

1635

Evans , David, pension increased ...
Evans, Green, pension increased ..
Evans, James B., pension increased ..
Evans , John D. , pension increased ..

Page. 2242
2111 2318 2366

Evans, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

2638

Evans, Sarah M. (widow),

pension increased ..

2030

Evans, William ,

pension increased .

1711

Evanston, Ill.,

appropriation for public building ...............

698

Evanston, Wyo.,

appropriation for public building...

698

limit of cost increased , public building.

774

appropriation for..

790

term of court at ..

111

Eveland, Margaret E. (widow),

pension...

2009

Everett, David E.,

pension increased .

1483

Everitt, Charles H. ,

pension increased ..

1614

Everly, Aaron,

military record corrected , substituted for

John O'Neal...

1715

Eversole, John H. ,

pension increased .

2082

Eversole, William B.,

pension increased .

1627

Everson, Ira J.,

pension increased .

2583

Evening Gun, Army, appropriation for firing ..

257, 1174

Everson, Nelson,

pension increased ..

2328

Evidence,

findings of Interstate Commerce Commis-

sion prima facie, in civil suits for

violations of regulations, etc. , by

carriers ....

589

certified copies of schedules, etc. , to be

prima facie, in all judicial proceed-

ings , etc ..

592

Ewing, John,

pension increased...

2238

Ewing, Thomas J. , and others,

may bridge Tug Fork of Big Sandy River,

Warfield , Ky..

852

Ewing, William M.,

pension increased .

1795

Examinations and Surveys,

printing ordered of preliminary, under

river and harbor act 1905 .

839

Examining Surgeons, Pensions,

appropriation for fees and expenses; ex-

aminations ....

133, 1406

reports to show rating and condition . 133, 1407

deficiency appropriation for fees ... 47, 667 , 1403

Excise Board, D. C., appropriation for salaries.

483, 1121

Executive Buildings, D. C., electric plants in, prohibited ; exception .. 1371

Executive Departments, D. C.,

appropriation for care, etc., grounds of. 734, 1342

compensation of heads of, established ...

993

annual estimates by heads of, to include all

requirements ...

448

restriction on additional or special re-

quests ....

449

3396

INDEX.

Executive Departments, D. C. -Continued . Page.

details of employees outside of District to

duty in, forbidden ..

449

details to Civil Service Commission pro-

hibited ...

948

report required of moneys received , and

not paid into the Treasury.

763

temporary details to White House author-

ized ...

401, 947

to record and report to Congress penalty

matter sent from July 1 to December

31, 1906 ....

473

transfers ofemployees unlawful before serv-

ing three years..

449

Executive Departments, etc.,

cost of composition , illustration, etc. , of documents, chargeable to, preparing. 825

printing, binding, etc. , charged in pro-

portion as delivered ...

825

Executive Expenses,

appropriations for.

400, 947

Executive Mansion , D. C.,

appropriation for improving grounds south

of...

733, 1342

for care, etc. , grounds .
for repairs, etc .. for fuel..

734, 1342 734, 1342 734, 1342

for greenhouses, etc .. for lighting..

734, 1342 734, 1342

Executive Office,

appropriation for Secretary of the Presi-

dent, assistants, clerks, etc ...... 400, 947

temporary details from Departments ,

etc ..

401, 947

for contingent expenses.

401, 947

for printing and binding.

761, 1368

Executive Office, D. C. ,

appropriation for Commissioners , secre-

tary, etc ..

482, 1119

for contingent expenses...

488, 1125

horses, etc., to be used only on official

business..

488, 1125

Expatriation (see also Citizenship) ,

not allowed in time of war.

1228

Expenditures of the Government,

statement for preceding year to be made by

Secretary of the Treasury in the an-

nual report...

949

Experiment Stations (see also Agricultural Experiment Stations) ,
annual appropriation to States and Territories for, increased ; conditions ...... 63

Experimental Gardens, etc. , D. C.,. appropriation for expenses..

680, 1266.

Exports of Grain,

appropriation for grading, etc. , at points of

export ....

681, 1267

Exports of Meat Animals and Products,

animals to be inspected ; certificate of con-

dition ....

677, 1263

clearance forbidden unless certificate be

produced...

677, 1263

carcasses to be examined; certificate of

condition...

677, 1263

clearance forbidden unless certificate be

produced.

677, 1263

Exposition, International Maritime,

deficiency appropriation for participation . 1371 Exposition. Jamestown (see also Jamestown :

Exposition),

deficiency appropriation for further aid to ;

conditions...

886

Express Companies, confinement of animals in interstate transit by, limited... time for rest, feeding, and watering re-
quired ... included as common carriers in interstate

Page. 607 607

commerce'regulations .....

584

Extortion,

punishment for, by officers, etc., extended ;

attempts included ..

546

Extra Copies of Documents,

provisions for printing ; estimates; excep-

tion ....

1013

meaning of term construed .

1013

Extradition,

appropriation for bringing home criminals

from abroad.

289, 919

deficiency appropriation for bringing home

criminals from abroad ..

27

convention with Great Britain, adding

bribery and bankruptcy criminal

offenses .

2903

with Japan, adding embezzlement and

larceny

2951

treaty with Denmark extended to island possessions , and bribery added ..
with Haiti
with Norway, modified as to accessoriés . with Panama .

2898 2858 2865 2851

Extraterritorial Rights,

treaty with Great Britain surrendering, in

Zanzibar

2870

Ezell, Gillum M. , pension increased .

2591

Ezell (née Bradley) , Victoria, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

365

F.

Facilities of Shipment,

included as transportation in interstate

commerce regulations.

584

Facing Slips, etc. , Postal Service, appropriation for.

477, 1215

Faggart, Rebecca (widow) , pension increased...

-2446

Fagley, Benjamin,

pension increased ..

1515

Failer, William A. ,

pension increased ..

1967

Fain, Fountain M.,

pension increased ..

2039

Fairbanks, Alaska,

appropriation for survey of trail to Council

City from...

316

for erection of court-house and jail ..... 751

Fairbanks Land District, Alaska,

created; court officers to perform duties ... 1232

fees; surveys, etc.

1232

Fairbanks, Retta M. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1478

Fairbrother, James R. ,

pension increased .

2761

Fairchild, James B.,

pension increased ..

2028

Fairhaven, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts...

1074

Fairley, Peter,

payment to

2311

Fairmont, W. Va.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

781

appropriation for....

794, 1298

Fairport, Ohio, appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1095

INDEX.

3397

Falbisaner, Charles,
pension.. Fales, Warren M.,
pension increased ..

Page. 1561
2717

Falkenburg, Elias S. ,

pension increased .

2250

Fallihee, Patrick,

pension increased .

1536

Fallon, Thomas T. ,

pension increased .

1580

Families, Heads of,

names in First Census of, to be published ; -

sales .

722

Fankell, George,

pension increased .

2040

Fargo, N. Dak.,

appropriation for public building ..

698

deficiency appropriation for furniture, pub-

lic building.

1374

terms of court at.

609, 610

Fargo, Sheldon B. ,

pension increased.

1910

Farington, David W.,

pension increased ..

2171

Fariola, Octave L. F. E. , pension increased ..

2707

Farmers,

excepted from general provisions of meat-

inspection law....

679, 1265

Farmers' Bulletins, appropriation for Congressional distribution ..
for preparing, printing, etc. for additional assistants, etc. for printing, etc .; distribution . Farmers Institutes, ·

690 690
690 1367

appropriation for reports, etc., on ...... 693, 1279

Farmerville, La.,

bridge authorized across D'Arbonne River

at .

1254

Farner, Jacob,

pension increased .

2375

Farnsworth, Hurlbutt L.,

pension increased .

2472

Farquhar, John M.,

pension increased .

1950

Farrand, Lyman E.,

pension increased .

1539

Farrar, Thomas J.,

pension increased .

2235

Farrel, Charles,

pension increased .

1946

Farrell, Arabella J. (widow),

pension increased..

2740

Farrell, Miss Bernice,

payment to..

2660

Farrell, Edward,

pension...
Farrell, John, pension increased..
Farrell, William H., pension increased.

1914 1673 2090

Farrington, Willard,

pension increased.

1928

Faulkner, William,

pension increased..

2404

Fauver, Samuel,

pension increased..

2400

Fay, Charles A. ,

pension increased..

1638

Fay, Sylvenus A. ,

pension increased ...

1561

Fayette Bridge Company,

may bridge Monongahela River, Browns-

ville, Pa..

128

Fayette County, Pa. ,

Page.

time extended for bridge across Mononga-

hela River by....

1236

Fayetteville, Ark.,

construction of public building authorized

at ; nominal site..

778

appropriation for.

792, 1298

Fayetteville, N. C.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for.

793, 1298

Feather River, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of.. ... 1107

Featheringill, Alfred,

pension increased...

2351

Feeble- Minded Children, D. C. ,

appropriation for maintenance. Feeble- Minded Persons,

511, 1152

admission of alien , excluded ....

898

Feeley, William E. ,'

pension increased .

2511

Fehr, Emma ( widow),

pension increased.

2516

Feigley, Mary C. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1932

Felix, Andrew Jackson, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Felix, Dennie, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Felix, Henry, Indian Allottee, fec-simple title to...
Felix, Peter, jr., Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Fell, Benjamin F., pension increased .
Fellows, Franklin J. , pension increased .
Fellows, William H. H. , pension increased..
Felske, F. A. , payment to.
Fenn, Lena S. (widow),
pension.. Fenton, John W. , jr.,
deficiency appropriation for extra services. Fenz, Frederick,
pension increased... Fenzl, Flora (widow),
pension... Ferber, Jacob,
pension increased ,
Fergerson, Joseph, pension increased ..
Fergus, Alexander M., pension increased ...

357 357 357 357 2396 1622 1897 2661 1549 43 2022 2574 1906 2604 2243

Ferguson, Bettie (widow),

pension Increased.......

2381

Ferguson, Caswell D.,

pension increased .

1534

Ferguson, John H.,

pension increased .

1478

Ferguson, William W., pension increased..

..... 2004

Fernald, James M.,

'pension increased ..

1640

Fernandina, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement ofwaterway

between Savannah, Ga. , and ..................... 1085

for improvement of harbor..

1085

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for.

792, 1298

title of certain claimants to lands in, con-

firmed.....

454

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--51

.3398

INDEX.

Ferrell, Nancy V. J. (widow) , pension..

Page. 2198

Ferrell, Napoleon B. ,

pension increased .

2360

Ferrier, Daniel T., pension increased .

1710

Ferries, included with railroads in interstate . com-

merce regulations if operated with .. 584

Ferris, Weston,

pension increased .

1783

Ferry, Francis H.,

pension increased ..

2799

Ferryboats,

subject to steamboat inspection require-

ments ..

.68, 194

Fessenden Street, NW. , D. C., . proceedings to condemn land for extend-
ing.. appropriation for.. Fetterman, George, pension increased .

855 856
2234

Feyler, Moses,

pension increased .

2417

Fiedler, Lydia A. (widow) ,

pension..

1745

Field Artillery , Army,

appropriation for, organized militia .... 257 , 1174

balances available ..

1174

constitution of..

861

to consist of six regiments...

862

composition of regiments ; orderlies .

862

ofbatteries; additional noncommissioned

officers; limit..

862

assignment of officers ; promotions ..

863

filling vacancies...

863

pay and allowances of enlisted men

863

Field Cannon, Army,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc.

463, 1059

Field, George H. ,

pension increased .

2523

Field, Jacob A. ,

pension increased .

1839

Field, Michael M.,

pension increased .

2779

Field, Minna Y. (widow),

pension increased .

2808

Frenop, Frederick,

pension increased .

2245

Fifield, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ...

1720

Fifteenth Light- House District,

tender for, authorized .

996

appropriation for.......

1319

Files, John L.,

pension increased ..

1466

Filkins, Hiram,

pension increased .

2810

Fillio, Edmund,

pension increased ..

2444

Fillmore Forest Reserve, Utah,

proclamation establishing

3200

Filtration Plant, Washington Aqueduct, D. C.,

appropriation for care, etc

497, 1135

Finch, David L.,

pension....

1666

Finch, John,

pension increased ..

2603

Findley, Carrie B. (widow),

pension increased..

1553

Fines, Penalties, etc. , Customs Service,

to be covered into Treasury as miscella-

neous receipts .....

1315

Finical, Benjamin F., pension increased .

Page. 2083

Finkbonner, Charles, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

378

Finklea, Sarah Emaline (widow),

pension increased..

1513

Finley, Nellie, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

365

Finney, J. M. T. ,

appropriation for services....

1292

Fire Alarms, D. C. ,

punishment for giving false..

220

Fire-Control Instruments, Army,

appropriation for field batteries .

1175

Fire-Control Instruments , Navy,

appropriation for battle ships, cruisers, and

monitors ..

1180

Fire-Control Stations, Army,

appropriation for constructing, installing ,

etc ....

462, 1058 ,

in insular possessions .

1061

deficiency appropriation for.

1401

Fire Department, D. C.,

appropriation for chief engineer, assistants,

etc ....

504, 1144

for miscellaneous...

505, 1144

for contingent expenses..

505 , 1144

for new houses .

505, 1144

for new apparatus ..

505. 1145

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses ..

119

for salaries, reorganization .

642

for forage..

642

for equipping fire boat for ice breaking .. 1378

for coal....

1378

extent of, under Commissioners of the Dis-

trict ..

314

exclusive jurisdiction of Commissioners

over; rules, etc ..

314

personnel, subject to appropriations ..

314

veterinarian: surgeons..

314

schedule of salaries...

315

restrictions on resignations ..

315

55

pensions to include mothers of members who died prior to March 1 , 1905 ..... 95

Fire Escapes, etc. , D. C.,

provisions for, on tenement houses, flats,

etc ..

70

penalty for failing to provide, etc.

#71

requirements modified ; owners ' respon-

sibility, etc..

1247

fireproof office buildings

1247

Fire Pumps on Steam Vessels,

location of, modified...

797

Firearms, D. C. ,

restrictions on use of..

809

Firemen, D. C. , Volunteer,

may erect monument, on triangle, reserva-

tion No. 29 ..

788

Fireworks, D. C.,

license tax to store and sell..

13

First Assistant Postmaster-General,

appropriation for, superintendents of divi-

sions, clerks , etc ..

437, 982

for superintendent, etc. , appointment

division

437, 983

for superintendent city delivery, etc .. 437, 983

for postal service office of...

468, 1206

for postmasters , assistants, clerks , etc. 468 , 1206

grading, etc., of clerks, carriers, etc ... 1206

for commencing building New York on

Pennsylvania Railroad site....

1210

for rent, light, and fuel; leases ..

471, 1210

for miscellaneous, first and second class

offices, and money-order service . 471, 1210

INDEX .

3399

First Assistant Postmaster-General- Cont'd. Page.

appropriation for canceling machines ... 471 , 1210 !

for assistant superintendents, salary and

allowance division ..

471 , 1210

for city delivery..

471 , 1210

for travel and miscellaneous expenses 472, 1211

deficiency appropriation for miscellane-

ous first and secon class offices ..... 1406

Fisheries Bureau, Department of Commerce Page. and Labor- Continued.

appropriation for repairs to " Grampus "

721

for launch, salmon culture, Alaska.

721

for station, Cold Springs, Ga ...

721

Saint Johnsbury, Vt., auxiliary.

721

for steam launch, Boothbay Harbor, Me. 721

for protecting salmon fisheries, Alaska 721, 1329

First Baptist Church, Mount Pleasant, D. C.,

taxes refunded....

870

First Census,

deficiency appropriation for miscellaneous

expenses ..

48, 1403

for ponds, Monument grounds ..

659

names of heads of families in, to be published; sales, etc...
First Colored Baptist Church, D. C., taxes refunded..

Fisheries, Commissioner of,

722 appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc .. 717, 1324

to approve fishways, dam across Choctaw-

869

hatchee River, Ala ..

102

Fish, Edmund, pension increased .
Fish, Joseph P. T., right to allotment to be tried in Court of Claims...
Fish Lake Forest Reserve, Utah, proclamation adding lands to ..

1969
344 3189

Mississippi River, Saint Cloud, Minn ....... 538

Monticello, Minn...

265

Missouri River, Mont.

111

Pea River..

18

Red Lake River, Minn .

65

Rock River, Ill ..

14

Saint Joseph River, Mich..

103

Fish, Leander J. , Quapaw Allottee, alienation restrictions modified .

to cooperate in survey, etc. , of Maryland

344

oyster beds..

202

Fish, Lorenzo B., pension increased .
Fish, Samuel, pension increased ..

Fishery Congress, Fourth International, 2328 appropriation for expenses, participation in 922
Fishing in Alaskan Waters, 1883 aliens prohibited from, except by rod , etc. 263

Fish Wharf, D. C.,
regulations for sale of privileges authorized ..

Fishing Vessels and Boats,

international requirements of lights on, to

72

prevent collisions at sea..

i 850

Fisher, Ambrose R. ,

Fitch, Everett S.,

pension increased .

1763 pension increased .

1656

Fisher, John, pension increased ..

Fitzgerald, Catharine F. (widow),

1513 pension increased ..

2244

Fisher, Joseph C., pension increased ..

Fitzgerald, James E., 2656 pension increased ..

... 2777

Fisher, S. Kate, payment to.

Fitzgerald, Patrick,

2814 pension increased ..

2199

Fisher, Thomas C.,

Fitzpatrick, Matt,

pension increased..

2594 pension increased ..

1705

Fisher, Tobias,

Fitzwater, Stephen M.,

pension increased ..

2331 pension increased.

2672

Fisher, Willard P.,

Five Civilized Tribes of Indians,

pension increased .

2548 appropriation for town-site expenses , Union

Fisher, William T.,

Agency, Ind. T.

338, 1025

pension increased ..

2560

for leasing, etc. , Creek and Cherokee

Fisheries, Alaska (see also Alaska Salmon

lands ...

338, 1025

Fisheries) ,

full-blood Indians .

1025

regulations for protection of..

478

Fisheries Bureau, Department of Commerce

and Labor,

for expenses, sale of inherited , etc. ,

lands ..

1025

for removing intruders, etc.

339, 1025

appropriation for Commissioner, deputy,

clerks, etc ..

717, 1324

for employees..

717, 1325

for division of fish culture, office force 717, 1325

station employees ..

717, 1325

employees at large.

719, 1327

distribution employees ..

719, 1327

for inquiry division ....

719, 1327

for biological station , Beaufort , N. C. 720, 1327

for statistics division ..

720, 1328

for vessel service ....

720, 1328

for contingent expenses.

720, 1328

for propagation.... for maintenance of vessels .

720, 1328 720, 1328

for inquiries... for statistical inquiry.

720, 1328 721 , 1328

for station, Wytheville, Va .

721

Erwin, Tenn ..

721

Manchester, Iowa..

721

Baird, Cal..

721

Boothbay, Me ..

1329

Spearfish, S. Dak.

1329

Alaska .

1329

for removing alienation restrictions on

allottees ...

339, 1025

for highways, Creek and Cherokee lands . 339

for investigating fraudulent leases...

1026

for tribal schools........

340, 1026

for completing work of Commission .. 340, 1026

access to tribal records ....

-1027

for clerks, removing alienation restric-

tions ..

976

deficiency appropriation for removing intruders, etc.
for sale, etc., Creek and Cherokee lands . for removing alienation restrictions .. for town-site expenses, Union Agency.. Cherokees may purchase improvements of
intermarried whites .
final disposition of affairs of.. final enrollment provisions ..
applications filed prior to December 1, 1905 ..
motions to reopen. enrollment of minor children .
status of illegitimate children.

39 39 39 39
1220 137 137
137 137 137  137

3400

INDEX .

Five Civilized Tribes of Indians- Cont'd .

Page. Five Civilized Tribes of Indians- Cont'd .

Page.

payment to Cherokees failing to receive

final distribution per capita of all tribal

allotments ..

137

funds .

143

equalization of Creek allotments contin-

ued ..

138

jurisdiction in suits in behalf of five tribes.. 144

pending suits....

144

final completion of rolls .

138

set-offs allowed defendants ..

144

not applicable to Cherokee intermarried

restrictions on alienations extended for 25

whites ...

138

years ....

144

approved roll of Cherokee freedmen...

138

leases other than homesteads permitted... 144

Cherokee freedmen, persons included .. 138

construction of prior conveyances..

144

homestead allotments to Choctaw and

lands taxable...

144

Chickasaw freedmen..

138

restriction on transfers to roll of citizens

leases by full-blood allottees, restricted ;

record ..

145

by blood..

138

deeds and patents to convey legal title

when recorded.......

138

pending contests not affected .

139

disposition of lands of allottee dying intes-

tate without heirs...

145

claims of heirs of Mississippi Choctaws .

145

conveyances by heirs, of inherited lands.. 145

removal of principal chiefs for nonperform-

disposal of property by will permitted ..

145

ance of duties ....

139

restriction on full-blood Indians..

145

approval of conveyances on failure of chief

to execute .

139

highways on section lines of Choctaw,

Chickasaw, and Seminole lands ..

145

effect of..

139

deeds by principal chief of Seminoles .

139

segregation of specified Choctaw lands ..

139

appraisal of pine timber; sales directed. 139

records of discontinued land offices to be

payment of expenses...

146

penalty for obstructing.

146

notices; damage suits ..

146

power and light companies granted rights

of way for dams, etc.

146

transferred to clerk of district court . 139

transcripts; disposal of fees..

140

payments on account of loyal Seminoles ,

ratified..

140

recoveries by individuals not barred ..

140

Court of Claims to hear claims against Mis-

sissippi Choctaws by estate of

Charles F. Winton ...

140

tribal schools transferred to control of Sec-

retary of the Interior...

140

proceedings to acquire lands, etc.....

146

municipal control , taxation , etc ....

147

municipalities granted additional powers . 147

issue of scrip or certificates for improve-

ments .

147

taxation of tangible railroad property.. 148

all other property..

148

appeals from assessments to district court 148

lands belonging to tribes to be held in trust. 148

allotments..

148

final distribution of school funds ..

140

tribal revenues to be collected by special

officer....

-141

payment of claims .

141

tribal taxes abolished from December 31 ,

1905; refund ..

141

tribal governments, etc. , continued ; re-

strictions ..

148

acts, etc., to be approved by President . 148

changes directed in enrollment of bill for

final disposition of affairs of..

2832

continuation of tribal governments .

822

accounting, delivery, etc. , of tribal prop-

erty .

141

punishment for failure..

141

Choctaw and Chickasaw town lots reserved

ex-employees not to practice before Com-

missioner for two years......

345

index of reports of commission to, ordered

printed ..

2833

for mining leases, to be sold; pro-

permanent record of complete approved

ceeds ..

141

roll...

340

forfeiture for nonpayment of town lots;

copies in recording districts .

340

resale ....

141

punishment for illegal copying, etc.

341

reversion of streets, etc. , vacated by munic-

restriction of enrollment applications to

ipal corporations...

142

minors...

342

coal and asphalt lands reserved from sale.. 142

appearance of name on tribal roll not con-

conveyance to owners of lands reserved

strued as application ...

342

from allotment or sale..

142 Five Civilized Tribes of Indians , Commis-

reversion for nonuser ..

142

sioner to,

railway-easement provisions... reversion on failing to pay, etc ..

142 deficiency appropriation for completing 142 work of.. 39,842

Murrow Indian Orphans ' Home, donation

Five Mile River, Conn.,

patents authorized ..

142 appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1076

fractional rights of Choctaws and Chickasaws may be conveyed to
other lands conveyed to... tribal buildings, etc., to be sold ; proceeds ..

Fixico, Nocus, Indian Allottee,

142 alienation restrictions removed ..

346, 1028

142 Flack, W. II., late a Representative in Congress,

143 deficiency appropriation for pay to widow. 1396

deferred till dissolution of tribal governments ...
purchases by municipalities..

Flags,

342 appropriation for decorating graves, Memo-

143

rial Day..

1165

residue of unallotted , etc. , lands to be sold;

Flags, Confederate Battle,

proceeds ....

143 unidentified, to be delivered to Southern

preferences to Choctaw and Chickasaw

Historical Society ....

837

freedmen....

143 Flagstad, Martin J.,

reversion for nonpayment...

143 pension...

2483

tracts of nonagricultural , etc., Choctaw

Flaherty, Dennis,

and Chickasaw lands ..

143 pension increased .

2266

agricultural lands limited to 160 acres to

Flanagan, Michael,

one person....

143 . pension increased..

2770

INDEX .

3401

Flandreau, S. Dak. ,

Page.

appropriation for Indian school ........ 370, 1046

deficiency appropriation for Indian school,

John H. Roberts ......

38

Flanery, John L.,

pension increased .

2791

Flathead Agency, Mont.,
appropriation for Indian agent at.... for support, etc. , of Indians of..
Flathead Indian Reservation, Mont. ,

353, 1034 353, 1034

appropriation for survey, allotment, etc.,

of lands in....

1034

deficiency appropriation for opening ceded

lands of; reimbursable..

205

town sites reserved on unallotted lands of . 354

appraisal; rights of residents..

354

sales, etc..

355

hot springs at Camas reserved ; control .

355

water rights unimpaired ..

355

appropriation for town-site expenses; re-

imbursable..

355

Fleming, William,

military record corrected .

2414

Fletcher, George W.,

pension increased .

2124

Fletcher, John W.,

pension increased .

1955

Fletcher, Lucius C.,

pension increased .

2241

Flewellen, James P.,

pension .....

2218

Flick, George W. ,

pension increased ..

1651

Flint, Mich.,

appropriation for public building..

1298

limit of cost increased , public building .. 773

Flint River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 1085

dam authorized across, at Porter Shoals.... 878

Flint, Wilbur F. ,

pension increased ..

2121

Flint, William H.,

66 pension increased ..

1616

"Flirt, " Schooner,

appropriation for paying owners .

1292

Florence, Ala.,

construction of public building authorized

at..

776

appropriation for ."

791 , 1298

Florence, Ariz., ><

act of legislature authorizing repair of bridge

at, ratified ..

1054

Florence Crittenton Mission, D. C.,

appropriation for care of women and chil-

dren by; contract.....

... 512, 1153

Florence, Italy,

classification and salary of consul..

100

appropriation for clerk hire .......

294, 924

Florence, S. C., 7

terms of court at .

1002

Florer, John L.,

allowed to purchase land, Osage Indian

Reservation, Okla .

542

Florida,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks ,

etc ..

435, 980

bridge authorized across Escambia River in . 1239 Florida East Coast Railway Company,

may construct and use embankment adjoin-

ing Key West military post.....

1169

Florida Southern Judicial District,

terms of court, Miami...

226

Florida Straits,

landing, etc. , sponges taken by diving from ,

prohibited; exception.......

313

Flournoy, Silas, pension increased ..
Flowers, Kate (widow), pension increased..
Floyd, Jonathan E., pension increased.

Page. 1860
2593 1776

Fluegel, William,

pension increased .

1664

Flushing Bay, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1077

Flynn, Agnes (widow),

pension increased ..

1676

Flynn, Anna (widow),

pension increased .

2298

Flynn, James,

pension increased.

1819

Flynn, John,

pension increased .

1493

Foale, William R. P. ,

pension increased .

1517

Foard, Mary Ann (widow),

pension increased ..

2783

Foat, William,

pension increased ..

1575

Focht, Hiram,

pension increased..

2674

Fog Signals, appropriation for expenses.......

712, 1320

Fogg, George F.,

pension increased.:

2636

Folding Room, House of Representatives,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks ,

etc ..

395, 941

Folding Room, Senate,

appropriation for superintendent, assistant,

folders, etc ......

391, 937

Foley, Laurence,

pension increased ..

2025

Follin, James M.,

pension increased..

2196

Foltz, John,

pension increased...

1708

Fond du Lac, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor ... 1101

Fonda, John G.,

pension increased..

2138

Fonner, Joseph B. , alias John Havens,

pension.

1744

Food,

includes, in pure-food act, all articles of

food, drink, confectionery, or condiment used by man or animals ....... 769
Food Adulterations ( see Pure-Food Act). Food Products,

appropriation for investigating preserv-

atives; foreign tests, etc ..

686, 1271

for chemical examinations of, for ex-

port...

686, 1272

for investigating adulterating, false label-

ing, etc., of imported ...

686

examination and detention of un-

wholesome, etc ................

686

Foods,

appropriation for expenses, preventing sale

of adulterated, etc.

1272

Foods, Proprietary,

provisions of pure-food act as to

771

Foor, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

2780

Foote, Asa M.,

pension increased .

1568

Foote, Robert,

pension increased......

2768

Forbes, Laura J. (widow),

pension increased........

1435

3402

INDEX.

Forbes, Similde E. (widow), pension increased..
Ford, David, pension increased....

Page. 1972
2082

Forest Reserves-Continued.
area enlargedJemez, N. Mex ... Kootenai, Mont. and Idaho..

Page.
3261 3253

Ford, Edward, pension increased .

Lake Tahoe, and name changed to Ta-

2515

hoe, Cal. and Nev

3163

Ford, Eli, alias Jacob Butler, pension increased...

26 Lewis and Clark, Mont... 93 Lincoln, N. Mex...

3304 3216

Ford, Ezekiel C.,

Little Belt Mountains, Mont. , and name

pension increased .

2719

changed to Little Belt

3180

" Ford, Fayette E.,

Lolo, Mont...

3260

pension increased .

2163

Madison, Mont

3148

Ford, George F. pension increased .

Manti , Utah ..

3188

2426

Medicine Bow, Colo. and Wyo

3039, 3303

Ford, Gilbert, pension increased .

Montezuma, Colo....

3307

1504

Mount Rainier, Wash., and name

Ford, James P.,

changed to Rainier..

3296

pension increased . Ford, Orton D.,
pension increased .

1510

Olympic, Wash ..

Park Range, Colo ....

1569

Payson, Utah

3306 3285 3127

Foreaker, John W., pension increased ..

Priest River, Idaho and Wash.

3257, 3309

1503

San Juan, Colo ...

3308

Foreign Commerce,

Santa Barbara, Cal ..

3238

regulations of meat animals and products

in

674, 1260

Sawtooth, Idaho .. Sevier, Utah

3260 3187

Foreign Commerce ofthe United States,

Sierra, Cal .

3133

appropriation for investigations for promo-

Siskiyou, Oreg .

3280

tion of ..

442, 987

Shasta, Cal..

3235

cotton products ..

442

Stanislaus, Cal

3229

Foreign Counsel,

Uinta, Utah and Wyo..

3240

appropriation for services of, in special

Uintah, Utah...

3116

cases ..

754, 1361

Uintah, Utah and Wyo.

3186

Foreign Governments, Visiting Representatives

Uncompahgre, Colo ...

3282

of,

Wenaha, Oreg. and Wash.

3279

entertainment of, allowed from emergency

Wichita, Okla .

3207

fund ..

27

Yellowstone, Wyo. Mont. and Idaho ... 3049

Foreign Intercourse (see Diplomatic and Con-

areas modified-

sular Service) .

Battlement, Mesa , Colo ..

3076

Foreign Mails, Postal Service,

Big Belt, Mont ...

3283

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

Big Hole, Mont. and Idaho ..

3281

etc ..

438, 983

Bitter Root, Idaho and Mont

3044

for transportation .

475, 1214

for assorting mails on steamers .

475, 1214

for pier transfers, New York and San

Cascade Range, Oreg.. Lincoln, N. Mex.. Little Belt . Mont.

3270 3175 3254, 3277

Francisco...

475, 1214

Madison, Mont

2995

for assistant superintendent , New York, 475, 1214

San Isabel, Colo . San Jacinto, Cal..

3083 3276

for balances due foreign countries .... 475, 1214

Uinta, Utah and Wyo.

3207

deficiency appropriation for..

658, 658

Washington, Wash...

3068, 3297

Foreign Markets for Agricultural Products,

Weiser, Idaho ..

3199, 3294

appropriation for expenses, extending . 691, 1276

Yellowstone, Wyo ., Mont. , and Idaho... 3291

Foreign Passenger Vessels , steamboat inspection requirements .
Foreign Tariffs, appropriation for collating..
Forest Reserves (see also Forest Service) ,

68 444, 988

Black Hills, S. Dak. , restrictions removed

from certain townships in Penning-

ton County..

883

breeding place for game animals in Grand

Canyon, Ariz...

607

appropriation for administration ex-

penses....

685, 1269

for restoring lands to public domain .. 724, 1333

certain lands in Yellowstone, opened to

homestead entries..

62

consolidation of-

for survey of....

728, 1336

Maury Mountain with Blue Mountains . 3302

deficiency appropriation for surveying ... 47, 667, 728, 1402

Pikes Peak and Plum Creek timber land reserves and South Platte Forest Re-

area enlargedAshland, Oreg..
Black Mesa, Ariz ..

3196, 3298 3218

serve, into Pikes Peak, Colo ...

3029

Tahoe and Yuba, into Tahoe , Cal. and

Nev., and area enlarged ...........

3232

Caseade, Oreg ..

3300

Chiricahua, Ariz .

3244

Diamond Mountain, Cal.

3241

Fish Lake, Utah..

3189

Gallatin, Mont ..

3193

Gila River, and name changed to Gila,

N. Mex ...

3123

Grand Canyon , Ariz Hell Gate, Mont..

3009, 32233213, 3230

designated as a game preserve, Canyon , Ariz...
established-
Baboquivari, Ariz .. Bear Lodge , Wyo ... Bear River, Idaho and Utah . Beaver, Utah .. Big Belt, Mont . Big Burros, N. Mex .

Grand

3063
3251 . 3287 3206 3189 3151 3274

Holy Cross, Colo..

3286

Big Hole , Mont ...

3254

INDEX.

1. 3403

Forest Reserves- Continued . established-
Blue Mountains , Oreg. Cabinet, Mont . and Idaho
Caribou, Idaho and Wyo... Cassia, Idaho Charleston, Nev .. Chesnimnus, Oreg.
Cochetopah, Colo Colville, Wash..
Coquille, Oreg . Crazy Mountains, Mont Coeur d'Alène , Idaho
Diamond Mountain , Cal . Dixie, Utah Ekalaka, Mont. Elkhorn, Mont . Fillmore, Utah Fremont, Oreg . Fruita, Colo . Gallinas, N. Mex ..
Garden City, Kans . Gila River, N. Mex. Glenwood, Utah.. Goose Lake, Oreg. Gunnison , Colo .. Helena, Mont Hell Gate, Mont .. Henrys Lake, Idaho Heppner, Oreg.. Holy Cross, Colo .. Huachuca, Ariz .. Imnaha, Oreg. , in place of Wallowa and
Chesnimnus .
Independence, Nev . Jemez, N. Mex .. Klamath, Cal .. Kootenai, Mont .. La Sal, Utah and Colo Las Animas, Colo... Lassen Peak, Cal . Leadville, Colo .. Lemhi, Idaho.. Little Rockies , Mont.. Lolo, Mont... Long Pine, Mont. Magdalena, N. Mex . Manzano , N. Mex..
Maury Mountain , Oreg. Missoula, Mont .. Monterey, Cal .. Montezuma, Colo .. Monticello , Utah .. Mount Taylor, N. Mex . North Platte, Nebr .. Otter, Mont.. Ouray, Colo... Palouse, Idaho .. Park Range, Colo .. Payette, Idaho . Peloncillo, N. Mex . Pinal Mountains , Ariz Pinnacles, Cal.. Plumas, Cal.. Port Neuf, Idaho . Portales, N. Mex . Pryor Mountains, Mont .. Raft River, Idaho and Utah . Ruby Mountains, Nev Salmon River, Idaho .. San Juan, Colo ...
San Luis Obispo , Cal San Mateo, N. Mex.. Sawtooth, Idaho .. Sevier, Utah

Page.
3194 3295 3267 3099 3252 3022 3101 3288 3299 3224 3256 3113 3147 3245 3024 3200 3231 3191 3243 3131 3126 3275 3226 3025 3196 3168 3052 3222 3144 3255
3284 3251 3182 3001 3225 3190 3289 3063 3013 3248 3290 3234 3235 3245 3257 3066 3250 3218 3106 3272 3239 3193 3305 3271 3293 3079 3067 3248 2991 3221 2992 3292 3178 3258 3247 3198 3250 3070 3217 3249 3058 3020

Forest Reserves- Continued . established-

Page.

Shasta, Cal.
Short Pine, S. Dak Sierra Madre, Wyo .. Siskiyou, Oreg. Snowy Mountains, Mont . Stony Creek, Cal.. Taos, N. Mex ... Tillamook, Oreg. Toiyabe, Nev... Tonto, Ariz . Trinity, Cal. Tumacacori, Ariz ..
Umpqua, Oreg. Uncompahgre, Colo . Vernon, Utah

3157 3129 3242 3239 3246 3273 3262 3310 3278 3166 2998 3263 3301 3109 3197

Wallowa, Oreg Wasatch, Utah.. Weiser, Idaho .. Wenaha, Oreg. and Wash. Wet Mountains, Colo ... Yuba, Cal grant of land to Wisconsin for State..

3004, 3225 3055 3010
3096 3184
517

lands added to Sierra, Cal. , from Yosemite

Park...

832

list of lands in, valuable for agricultural

purposes, to be made ....

233

counties in California excluded .

233

opening to homestead entry..

233

preference to present settlers .

233

patents by metes and bounds on re

quest

-233

no commutation allowed ; credit for

residence ..

233

additional homestead rights to present

settlers; payment ...

234

entries in Black Hills , subject to mining,

irrigation, etc., laws; limitations ... 234

restriction, Lawrence and Pennington

counties, S. Dak....

234

settlement to await official opening; set-

tlers' rights....

234

no further, or additions except by act of

Congress ...

1271

permits for power plants, etc., in San Ber-

nardino, Sierra, and San Gabriel, Cal. , to Edison Electric Company.. 163

right of way to Los Angeles through Sierra,

Santa Barbara, and San Gabriel, Cal. 801

sales of timber in California ....

684

superseded-

Baker City, Oreg. , by Blue Mountains .. 3195

Chesnimnus , Oreg. , by Imnaha ................

3284

Logan, by Bear River, Idaho and Utah . 3206

Maury Mountain, Oreg., by Blue Moun-

tains ..

3302

Wallowa, Oreg. , by Imnaha .

3284

Yuba, by Tahoe, Cal . and Nev..

3232

ten per cent of receipts from , to be paid to

States or Territories, for schools and

roads .....

1270

to be known as national forests ..

1269

Forest Service, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries..

683, 1269

for general expenses ..

683, 1269

forest reserves to be known as na-

tional forests ..

1269

enforcement of game, etc. , laws ... 683 , 1269

forest reserve special fund , estimates

required after June 30 , 1908 ...

684

ten per cent to States and Territories

for schools, etc ..

684, 1270

sale of timber, etc .; use of fund .

684

for administration of national forests . 684, 1269

3404

INDEX .

Forest Service, Dept. of Agriculture-Cont'd. Page.

appropriation for agents, labor, etc ..... 684, 1270

for rent; leaves of absence ...

684, 1270

for protecting range for buffaloes, Wichita

Game Preserve.....

696

for building Dismal River Reserve .

696

for permanent improvements ....

1270

detailed reports to be made.

1270

receipts to be deposited...

1270

permanent appropriation for refunding

deposits

1270

ten per cent of receipts to States and

Territories for schools, etc ....

1270

no further reserves or additions except

by act of Congress...

1271

deficiency appropriation for protecting

reserves

667, 1403

for investigations ..

667

protection of copyrighted matter in " Rules

and Specifications for Grading Lam-

ber, etc.".

836

Forked Deer River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1093

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

Forked River, N. J.,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1115

Forman, Henry H.,

pension increased ..

1804

Fornshell, Frank L.,

pension increased.

1960

Fornwalt, Isaac,

pension increased .

2579

Fort Abraham Lincoln Military Reservation,

N. Dak.,

selection by North Dakota in lieu of school

lands entered on, abandoned

1218 .

Fort Assinniboine, Mont.,

'sale of army subsistence supplies to Mon-

tana citizens permitted..

1421

Fort Bayard, N. Mex.,

appropriation for water supply.

1348

admission of Navy and Marine patients.. 1172

patients subject to army rules, etc..

255

special ration allowance enlisted patients

at

250, 1166

Fort Belknap Agency, Mont.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of....

353, 1034

Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, Mont., lease of lands for sugar-beet culture, etc.,

permitted; conditions ....

1034

Fort Berthold Agency, N. Dak.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of....

360, 1042

additional allotment to Indians of.

1042

Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, N. Dak., certain entries, etc., on ceded, validated .. 894

Fort Brady Military Reservation, Mich.,

part of, reserved for public building, Sault

Sainte Marie .....

190

Fort Buford Abandoned Military Reservation, N. Dak.,

deficiency appropriation for surveying .... 47

Fort Clinch Military Reservation, Fla.,

title of certain claimants to lands in, con-

firmed .

454

Fort Columbia Military Reservaton, Wash.,

right of way granted through ..

926

Fort Crittenden Military Reservation , Utah,

general land laws extended to , abandoned. 808

Fort Crockett, Tex.,

appropriation for sea-wall embankment,

etc ...

742

Fort D: A. Russell, Wyo. ,

appropriation for post hospital .

255

Fort Dade, Fla., appropriation for cable, etc. , to mainland ..
Fort De Soto, Fla., appropriation for cable, etc. , to mainland ..
Fort Dodge, Iowa, terms of court..
Fort Donelson National Cemetery, Tenn.,
deficiency appropriation for road. Fort Douglas, Utah,
appropriation for post hospital .. exchange of lands, etc., with Le Grand
Young.. part of, granted Utah University; condi-
tions ...

Page. 464
464 912 644 1172 612 195

Salt Lake City granted right ofway through,

for boulevard ..........

927

Fort Erie, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul ......

100

Fort Gaines, Ala. ,

appropriation for replacing ammunition,

etc., damaged by storm.....

1060

Fort Greble, R. I.,

appropriation for water supply.

1348

Fort Hall Indian Reservation, Idaho,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

of..

334, 1023

for survey; plans for irrigating, etc. , ceded lands...
for removal of Lemhi Indians to..
irrigation of lands of; lands for reservoir.
water rights; lands of Indians, etc.. appropriation for; reimbursement ....... Fort Hall Indians,

334 730 1024 1024 1025

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 338, 1024

Fort Keogh Military Reservation, Mont.,

appropriation for bridge across Tongue

River, by Custer County.

88

part may be used as experimental horse- :

breeding station..

252

right of way granted through.

187

Fort Lafayette, N. Y., Naval Magazine,

appropriation for public works ..

568

Fort Leavenworth, Kans.,

appropriation for General Service and Staff

College ..

240, 1158

for military prison...

743

deficiency appropriation for military prison 32 Fort Lewis, Colo. ,

appropriation for Indian school ........ 334, 1023

Fort McIntosh, Tex.,

appropriation for land, target range ....... 742

Fort Mackenzie, Wyo. ,

appropriation for post hospital....

1172

Fort McRee, Fla.,

appropriation for sea walls.

1059

for replacing ammunition, etc. , dam-

aged by storm.........

1060

Fort Marion, Fla.,

deed of "The Lines," for school purposes to

Saint Johns County..

913

right of way granted across..

1219

Fort Mason, Cal. ,

appropriation for general depot for army supplies; contracts for construction. 257

Fort Mifflin, Pa,, Naval Magazine, appropriation for public works.

567, 1190

Fort Mojave, Ariz., appropriation for Indian school ........ 332, 1021

Fort Monroe, Va., appropriation for artillery school .. for additional land for wharf expenses . for repairs of roads, etc for sewer system ..

240, 1158 742
743, 1348 743, 1348 743, 1349

INDEX.

3405

Fort Morgan, Ala.,

Page.

appropriation for replacing ammunition,

etc., damaged by storm...

1060

Fort Moultrie, S. C. ,

appropriation for wharf, etc..

743

for protecting wall..

1059

Fort Niagara, N. Y.,

deficiency appropriation for buildings ; use

of amount for land...

644

Fort Niobrara Military Reservation, dam authorized across Niobrara River at.. 297
right of way for trolley line, etc. , through.. 297

Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.,

appropriation for land, target r1 ange...

742

Fort Peck Agency, Mont.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians'

at...

353, 1034

Fort Pickens, Fla.,

appropriation for sea walls

1059

for replacing ammunition, etc., damaged

by storm ..

1060

Fort Porter, N. Y.,

tunnel under grounds, for Buffalo water

supply, authorized ..

532

Fort Putnam, West Point, N. Y., appropriation for restoring..

531 , 1073

Fort Rice Military Reservation, N. Dak. ,

homestead laws extended to abandoned .. 808

selection by North Dakota in lieu of school

lands entered on abandoned ...................: 1218

Fort Riley, Kans.,

appropriation for cavalry and field artil-

lery school .....

240, 1158

Fort Robinson Military Reservation, Nebr.,

grant of portion of, to Crawford , Nebr. , for

park, etc

461

Fort Saint Philip, La. ,

appropriation for rebuilding protecting

levees ...

1059

for replacing ammunition , etc. , damaged

by storm..

1060

Fort Sam Houston, Tex.,

appropriation for additional land ....

252

Fort San Juan, Cuba,

use of transport " Sumner" to convey Com-

mission, etc., to dedication of battle

monuments ..

821

Fort Scott, Kans. ,

appropriation for road to national cemetery;

conditions

1347

Fort Screven, Ga.,

appropriation for sea wall..

742

Fort Shaw Abandoned Military Reservation,

Mont. ,

disposal of lands in.........

228

lands reserved for Indian school ..

229

under reclamation act..

229

Fort Sheridan, Ill.,

additional land for, authorized ; funds

available ...

1348

Fort Sherman Reservation, Idaho, proclamation granting part of, to Coeur d'Alene for cemetery..
strip of land for highway to Kootenai County ...

3004 456

Fort Sill Military Reservation, Okla.,

right of way through, to Wichita Mountain

and Orient Railway Company....

613

Fort Smith and Van Buren Bridge and Traction

Company,

may bridge Arkansas River, Van Buren,

Ark...

21

penalty for violations of orders , etc....

22243

Fort Snelling, Minn., appropriation for drill hall...

Page. 743

for bridge across Mississippi River to

Saint Paul...

1346

construction of bridge authorized across

Mississippi River between Saint

885889

Paul and..

66

contribution of expenses

67

limit of cost, etc ..

68

payments for constructing bridge, to be

under Secretary of War...

1418

Fort Supply, Okla.,

act of Oklahoma legislature concerning in-

sane asylum at, ratified .....

853

Fort Taylor, Fla.,

appropriation for additional land ..............

1169

Fort Totten, N. Dak., appropriation for Indian school........ 360, 1042

Fort Totten, N. Y. (see also Submarine De-

fense School),

appropriation for submarine defense

school ..

240, 1159

for machinery, etc. , army torpedo depot. 464

for torpedo repair shop...

1061

Fort William Henry Harrison , Mont. ,

appropriation for water supply........

742

Fort Worth, Tex.,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

$775

appropriation for......

790, 1298

Fort Wright Military Reservation, Wash.,

right of way granted through...

865, 927

Fort Wright, Wash. ,

appropriation for additional land ......

742

Fortifications,

appropriation for modernizing older em-

placements ..

462, 1058

for fire-control installations

462, 1058

for purchase, tests, etc., of range finders,

etc.

462, 1058

for harbor searchlights

462, 1058

for preservation and repair.

462, 1059

for protecting walls, Fort Moultrie, S. C. 1059

for sea walls, Forts Pickens and McKee,

Fla..

1059

for repairs , etc. , defenses of' Pensacola,

Fla..

1059

for repairs, etc. , defenses of Mobile, Ala. 1059

for levees Fort Saint Philip, La...

1059

for plans..

462, 1059

for electric plants , etc ..

462, 1059

for sea walls .

462, 1059

for preserving torpedo structures . for submarine mines, care, etc..

462, 1059 462, 1059

contracts, etc ... for armament ..

463 463, 1059

for machine and automatic guns, car-

riages, etc ..

463, 1059

for mountain, field, and siege cannon: 463, 1059

for ammunition...

463, 1059

for seacoast cannon

463, 1059

for ammunition....

463, 1060

for inspecting instruments .

463, 1060

for ammunition, etc. , seacoast artillery

practice..

463, 1060

for altering, etc. , mobile artillery.. 463, 1060

for ammunition for field , etc. , prac-

tice ..

463, 1060

for altering, etc. , seacoast guns ..

463, 1060

balance available....

463

for alterations for rapid-fire field material . 1060

for repairing damages, etc. , Gulf coast

tornado...

1060

3406

INDEX .

Fortifications-Continued .

Page. Fosdick, Andrew J.,

appropriation for converting muzzle-load-

pension increased .

Page. 2128

ing to breech-loading guns for salut-

Foskett, Liberty W..

ing, etc

1060 pension increased .

2732

issue of heavy ordnance for State en-

Foss, Augustus,

campments, repealed ..

1060 pension....

1441

for expenses, Sandy Hook proving

Foster, Almon,

ground ...

464, 1060 pension increased ..

1502

for Watertown Arsenal .

464 Foster, Alonzo,

for Watervliet Arsenal .

464 pension increased.

2645

for powder factory...

464 Foster, Charles E.,

for cables from Forts Dade and De Soto,

pension increased .

2668

Fla .....

464 Foster, Charles W.,

for purchase, etc. , submarine mines .. 464, 1061 pension increase.d..

2360

for torpedo depot, Fort Totten, N. Y. 464. 1061

for torpedo planter, Pacific coast ..

1061

for insular possessions, seacoast bat-

teries ...

464, 1061

Foster, Dolores S. (widow), pension increased .
Foster, Harvey, pension increased .

2274 1896

fire-control installations ; range finders. 1061 Foster, Jessie E. (widow),

harbor searchlights ..

1061 pension increased ..

submarine mines, care, etc....

1061 Foster, Joseph W.,

sites, Hawaiian Islands ..

464 pension increased ..

2146 1689

seacoast cannon .

465, 1061 Foster, Margaret E. (widow),

mounting 12-inch rifles .

465, 1061 pension increased..

1779

ammunition..

465, 1061

inspecting instruments, range finders,

etc ..

465, 1061

altering, etc., seacoast artillery .. 465, 1062

Foster, Mary A. (widow), pension increased....
Foster, Mary O. (widow), pension increased ..

1867 2671

purchase of submarine mines

1062

method authorized for charging indi-

rect expenses.............

1062

Foster, Matilda (widow), pension....
Foster, Samuel,

2240

for Board of Ordnance and Fortification 465 , pension increased .

1436

1062 Foster, Samuel II.,

for civilian member; necessary expenses 465, pension increased.

1822

for tests, etc.......

1062 Foster, William, 465, 1062 pension increased .

2497

inquiry as to right of invention , etc. 465 , 1062 Foulk, Rachel A. (widow),

purchases to be of American manu-

pension increased..

1560

facture .

465, 1062 Foundation for the Promotion of Industrial

deficiency appropriation for fire-control in-

Peace,

stallations.

1401 : established ; trustees created .

1242

purchase of land on Deer Island , Boston,

Mass.; conditions ..

457

duties of trustees ; industrial peace com-

mittee.....

1242

Fortifying Pure Sweet Wines,

annual, etc. , conferences of committee.

1242

wine spirits defined ; grape brandy in-

expenses; property holding; offices

1243

cluded ...

215 cooperation with similar institutions ...

1243

pure sweet wine, the fermented juice only ; tests ..
grape must, sugar and water allowed ;

Foundlings Hospital, D. C., 215 appropriation for care, etc. , of children in;

contracts ..

512, 1153

limit

215 Fountain, William H.,

regulations for adding water

215 pension increased..

2736

recovery of wine spirits; permits

215 Fourteenth Street NW. , D. C.,

tax payable ; remission of deficiency tax, etc.
use for fortifying wines..
special gaugers to be assigned; expenses .. bond requirements extended ; other con-
ditions ....

deficiency appropriation for extending. 640, 1377 215 Fourth Assistant Postmaster-General,

215 appropriation for, superintendents, etc .. 438, 984

216

for postal service, office of..

476, 1214

for postal supplies..

216

for rural delivery.

476, 1215 477, 1215

fermenting vats at winery or adjacent dis-

tillery; supervision.

216

for expenses, shipping supplies ..

1215

for travel and miscellaneous expenses . 477, 1215

remission of tax on brandy accidentally

Fourth Baptist Church, D. C.,

destroyed ..

216 taxes refunded...

869

penalty for illegal recovery of spirits from

Fourth Light-House District,

fortified wines ..

216 relief vessel directed ..

995

rectifying, etc. , with other distilled

appropriation for ..

1319

spirits ...

216 Fourth Street NE. , D. C.,

blending permitted without special tax;

conditions .

216

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

ing, to Hamlin street..

857

Forty-fifth Street NW. , D. C.,

appropriation for................

857

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

Foutty. Thomas B. ,

ing, to Nebraska avenue ..

1004 pension increased .

2291

appropriation for......

1005 Fowler, George M.,

Forty-sixth Street NW., D. C.,

pension increased .

2318

proceedings to condemn lands for opening. 994 Fowler, James W.,

appropriation for.............

994 pension increased .

1903

INDEX.

3407

Fowler, Noah C., pension increased ..

Page. 1831

Fowler, Susan N. (widow),

pension increased .

2262

Fowlkes, Calvin B.,

pension increased .

2774

Fox, Charles B.,

pension increased .

1838

Fox, Emily (widow),

pension increased..

2303

Fox, Emma (widow) ,

pension....

2176

Fox, Henry Jacob,

pension increased ...

1889

Fox, John, North Carolina Volunteers,

pension increased .....

2270

Fox, John, Ohio Volunteers,

pension increased..

2396

Fox River, Ill.,

location of dam in McHenry County to be

changed..

1102

Fox River Navigable Water- Way Association ,

permission to change dam of, in McHenry

County, Ill......

1102

Fox, William,

pension increased ...

2200

Fox, William C. ,

pension increased ..

2186

Fox River, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1101

post lights authorized on..

996

appropriation for..........

1319

Frahm , August,

pension increased ..

1754

France,

appropriation for ambassador to..
for secretary of embassy.. for second secretary.... for third secretary..

286, 916 287, 917
287, 917 287, 918

deficiency appropriation for paying Sa-

moan claims ..

635

France, Isaac C.,

pension increased .

1970

Francis, Ann, Chippewa Indian,

appropriation for printing record of title,

etc ..

381

available for clerk's costs .

656

Francis, George A. ,

pension increased..

1484

Frankford Arsenal, Pa. ,

appropriation for additional power; pav-

ing, etc....

1339

Frankfort; Germany,

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire............

294, 924

Frankfort, Mich. , appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1097

Franking Privilege,

loan of franks to committees, organizations,

and associations prohibited ....

477

not applicable to committees of Members

of Congress...

477

Franklin, Benjamin, additional memorial medals of, authorized . 615 invitation to attend celebration of two

hundredth anniversary of birth of,

accepted

2830

Franklin County, Wash., bridge authorized across Columbia River, between Benton County and ..... 108,866

Franklin, Ga.,
bridge authorized across Chattahoochee River, between Columbus and ..... 324

Franklin, La., appropriation for improvement of inland waterway to Mermentau, from; contracts .
Franklin Street NE. , D. C., proceedings to condemn land for extend-
ing... appropriation for . Franklin, William II., pension increased .

Page.
1089
844 844 1747

Franks, Lafayette,

pension increased ...

2231

Franks, Leola V. (widow), pension..
Franz, Jacob, pension increased ........

· 1575 1855

Frapp, William, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

365

Fraser, Angus,

pension increased .

2684

Frasier, Francis H.,

pension increased .

1745

Fraternal Societies,

registration of emblems as trade-marks,

not allowed ...

1251

Fray, Alice A. (widow), pension.
Frayer, Andrew J., pension increased .

1926 2759

Frazer, George M.,

pension increased .

1740

Frazier, James,

pension increased ..

1500

Frazier, Nannie (daughter),

pension..

1473

Frazier, Orlando W. (son),

pension.

1764

Frazier, Samuel H.,

pension increased .

1913

Frech, Louis T. ,

pension...

2313

Frederick, Clarissa A. (widow) ,

pension increased..

2341

Frederick, Helen A. (widow),

pension..

1485

Fredericksburg, Mo.,

bridge authorized across Gasconade River

at .

388

Fredericksburg, Va. ,

appropriation for road to national ceme-

tery ....

259

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1298

Free Delivery Postal Service (see City Deliv-

ery and Rural Delivery) . Freedmen, Indian (see Five Civilized Tribes) .
Freedmen's Hospital and Asylum, D. C. ,
appropriation for care of indigent patients . 510, 1151

for salaries . for expenses.. for new building . for equipment. Freeland, Fleming H., pension increased ..

731, 1339 731 , 1339
1331 1331
2180

Freeman, Edwin,

pension increased..

2142

Freeman, Harmon, alias Harman Storme,

pension increased ...

2019

Freeman, Laura M. (urdov),

pension increased ..

2670

Freeman, Maitland J.,

pension increased....

1485

3408

INDEX .

Freeman, Orrin, pension increased ..
Freeman, Susan R. (widow), pension increased .
Freeman, William, pension increased .
Freese, Charles J., pension increased .

Page. 2528
2194 2776 2452

Freiburg, Germany,

classification and salary of consul ......................... 100

Freight Depots, etc.,

included with railroads in interstate com-

merce regulations .....

584

Freight, Navy and Navy Department, appropriation for.
Freight, Postal Service,

571, 1193

appropriation for, on postal cards, supplies, etc.; withdrawn from mails ..... 473, 1212

Freight Rates, schedules required of interstate carriers... 586

Fremont County, Colo.,

resurvey of a township in..

868

Fremont Forest Reserve, Oreg.,

proclamation establishing..

. 3231

French, Benjamin,

pension increased...

1699

French Broad River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1094

French, Daniel,

pension increased ...

2512

French, Joseph,

pension increased.

2063

French, Lucian W. ,

pension increased ..

1919

French Spoliation Claims, appropriation for defense in..

752, 1358

deficiency appropriation for defense in .. 40, 656

French Telegraph Cable Company,

appropriation for costs of repair to cable,

Puerto Plata...

1292

French Trans- Atlantic Cable Company, payment to..
Frenier, Louis, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Fresno, Cal., appropriation for public building .........

1714 357 1298

Frett, John, jr.,

pension increased ..

2333

Frick, John,

pension increased.

2189

Friebele, Frederick,

pension increased .

1892

Fried, Richard T.,

pension increased .

1639

Friend, Charles H. ,

pension increased ..

1716

Frier, Arby,

pension increased .

1881

Fritts, William E.,

pension increased .

1703

Frizelle, Matilda °C. (widow),

pension increased .

1937

Frost, Charles R.,

pension increased ..

1927

Frost, John W.,

pension increased..

2528

Fruit Farms,

special provisions for entries for, under

reclamation act ...

519

Fruita Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

proclamation establishing.

3191

Fuchau, China,

classification and salary of consul ....

99

Fuchs, Sebastian,

pension increased ..

2524

Fuel Hucksters, D. C. ,

Page.

not required to pay additional tax for stor-

ing, etc...

13

Fuel, Lights, and Water, Public Buildings,

appropriation for..

707, 1314

deficiency appropriation for .

45

Fuel Substances,

appropriation for testing, etc.; collection of materials for examination, etc. 728, 1335

Fugitives from Justice, convention for surrender of, with Great Britain , crimes added..
with Japan, crimes added.. treaty for surrender of, with Denmark, ex-
tended to island possessions, etc with Haiti.....

2903 2951
2898 2858

with Norway, modified as to accessories . 2865 .

with Panama..

2851

Fuhrman, John L.,

pension increased ..

2045

Fulgham , Oscar,

reimbursement to..

2702

Fulk, William R. ,

pension...

2289

Fuller, Alden,

pension increased .

1846

Fuller, Alonzo W. ,

pension increased .

2694

Fuller, Daniel,

pension increased

2544

Fuller, Henry A.,

pension increased...

2766

Fuller, Joseph,

pension increased .

2119

Fuller, Oscar A.,

pension increased ..

2763

Fuller, Sarah Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased .

2587

Fulmer, Harvey J.,

pension increased .

1669

Fulton, Charles W.,

pension increased .

1578

Fulton, Robert L.,

pension increased ..

2197

Funchal, Madeira,

classification and salary of consul..

100

Furey, Thomas,

pension increased ...

1784

Furlong, William,

pension increased..

1485

Furman, Jesse M.,

pension increased ..

1650

Furniture, Public Buildings, appropriation for, and repairs .
deficiency appropriation for.... Fyffe, Willa (widow),
pension increased..

707, 1314 28, 45
2496

G.

Gadsden, Ala. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for....

792, 1298

Gaffney, Patrick,

pension increased ..

2136

Gafford, John,

payment to assignee of......

2701

Gage, Marshall U.,

pension increased..

1724

Gage, Theodoric,

pension increased .

2789

Gahan, John W.,

pension increased .

2497

Gain, Lucinda ( widow),

pension increased....

1801

INDEX.

3409

Gainesville, Fla.,

Page. Game Birds and Animals, D. C. -Cont'd . Page.

limit of cost increased, public building... 773 waterfowl hunting, etc. , restricted to boats

appropriation for......

1298

with oars ; penalty..

809

Gainesville, Ga.,

marsh hunting restricted ..

809

construction of public building authorized

Game, Charlotte (widow),

at..

776 pension increased ....

2510

appropriation for....

791, 1298 Game Preserves,

Gainesville, Tex.,

enlargement of public building at, au-

thorized ..

775

appropriation for .

790

Gainsback, John,

killing, etc., birds or taking eggs on, for-

bidden; penalty.

536

proclamation declaring Grand Canyon For-

est Reserve, Ariz ., as a ..

3263

Wichita Forest Reserve, Okla. , as a.... ... 3062

pension..

1471 Gangwer, Stephen,

Galbraith, Cate F. (widow),

pension increased .

2474

pension increased ..

1751 Gannon, James,

Galbraith, Sarah F. (widow),

pension increased .

1821:

pension increased .

1739 Garbage, D. C.,

Galcatcher, Betsy, Indian Allottee,

appropriation for removing..

495, 1132

alienation restrictions removed ..

345 deficiency appropriation for removing .

119

Gallatin County, Mont. ,

Garden City Forest Reserve, Kans.,

bridge_authorized across Missouri River,

proclamation establishing.

3131

Broadwater and ....

456 Garden Produce Farms,

Gallatin Forest Reserve, Mont.,
proclamation adding lands to.. Galligan, Edward W. ,
pension increased ..

3193 2426

special provisions for entries for, under

reclamation act.....

519

Gardener, George,

pension increased .

2138

Gallinas Forest Reserve, N. Mex., proclamation establishing.
Gallion, William R. , pension increased .

Gardiners Bay, N. Y. ,

3243 preliminary examination to be made of

channel between Three Mile River

1923

and ..

1115

Gallipolis, Ohio,

Gardner, Anna M. (widow),

inspector of hulls and boilers for, abolished 106 pension increased ..

1465

Galloway, Sarah A. (widow),

Gardner, Asa A. ,

pension increased ..

2386 pension increased..

2664

Galloway, Virginia C. (widow) ,

Gardner, Henry G.,

pension increased ..

2801 pension increased ..

1580

Gallt , James (father),

Gardner, James H.,

pension...

1596 pension increased..

1326

Galveston Ship Channel, Tex.,

Gardner, James M. ,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

pension increased .

2786

tracts ..

738, 1092 Gardner, Orrin A. A. ,

Galveston, Tex.,

pension increased .

2075

appropriation for improvement of harbor ;

Gardner, Robert D.,

contracts .....

738, 1090 pension increased .

2105

channel ; restriction .

1090 Garfield Hospital, D. C.,

channel to Texas City .

1091 appropriation for isolating wards, minor

for customs boarding boat

1011

contagious cases ..

506, 1146

for building, etc. , for immigrant station

for maintenance..

745

at

1412

for support of destitute patients ..

1351

foreign-built dredges used at, to be docu-

for renewal of plumbing..

1351

mented...

204 deficiency appropriation for isolating

Gamble, Harvey,

ward ..

642, 1379

pension increased .

2144 Garland, Darius E.,

Gamble, James L.,

pension increased .

2395

pension increased ...

2194 Garland, Joseph P.,

Game,

pension increased ..

2226

appropriation for preventing shipment of

Garland, Rebecca (mother),

illegally killed ...

689, 1274 + pension increased : .

1468

Game and Fish Laws, D. C.,

Gaprensnesyi,onFriannccriesasDe.d, .

2217

appropriation for enforcing ..

489, 1126 Garrett, Elias W.,

Game Animals,

pension increased..

2720

breeding place for, in Grand Canyon Forest

Garrett, William S. ,

Reserve ...

607 pension increased .

1933

Game Birds and Animals, D. C., killing, etc. , of wild birds prohibited ; penalty.. English sparrows excepted . permits to shoot crows, etc. , destroying crops or poultry.. hunting, etc. , without permit, squirrels,
rabbits, etc., prohibited ; penalty .. special permit to shoot English sparrows ,

Garrison, Silas, pension increased..
808 Garrison, William H., 808 pension increased..
808 Garritt, James M., pension increased....
808 Garst, Samuel S., pension increased .

2599 2606 1659 1875

etc .; penalty ..

809 Garvey, Alice (widow),

firearms regulations, additional , authorized . 809 pension....

2009

3394

INDEX .

Enlisted Men, Army--Continued.

Page. Envoys Extraordinary and Ministers Plenipo- Page.

appropriation for extra-duty pay, artillery

tentiary,

and ordnance service

246 appropriation for salaries .

286, 916

for extra-duty pay, artillery and ordnance service , at seacoast fortifica-

not to be paid officials receiving other

salaries ..

287, 917

tions ...

1163 Epidemic Diseases,

for switchboard operators at interior

posts ....

1163

appropriation for expenses preventing introduction of yellow fever and other . 301

for 20 per cent increase, service beyond

the United States .

247, 1164

computation of service..

247

availability of present appropriations . 247

for bringing home from abroad remains

Epidemics,

appropriation for prevention of........ 709, 1316

Epileptics,

admission of alien , excluded ...

899

importation of, unlawful ; penalty..

901

of..

741, 1347 Epiphany Church, D. C. ,

deficiency appropriation for 20 per cent in-

taxes refunded ..

869

crease, service in Cuba ...

1381 Episcopal Church in Utah,

allowances to, detailed at Jamestown Ex-

position ..

1160

grant of lands in former Uintah Reserva-

tion, for missions, etc. , to ....

611

to retired ; credit for all service .

1217 Epler, Jacob H.,

distribution of amounts due deceased ,

pension increased...

1498

without administration ; limit .

750 Epperson, Margaret (widow),

funeral expenses..

750 pension increased ..

noncommissioned officers, etc. , for recruit

Eppinger, William ,

and prison companies.

1160 pension increased ..

2620 2276

savings may be deposited with paymaster . kept as separate deposit fund repayment; exemption from debts , etc
liability of Government for deposits ... clothing balances to be paid from regular
pay fund .

246 Equipage, Army, Camp and Garrison, 246 appropriation for..

254, 1171

246 deficiency appropriation for .... 46, 646, 666, 1401 246 loan authorized to Jamestown Exposition ;

conditions .

1175

246 Equipments, Army,

Enlisted Men, Marine Corps, appropriation for reimbursing, losses San Francisco fire .

appropriation for. Erick, John J., 554 pension increased .

257, 1175 2076

for pay..

579, 1200 Erickson, Charles,

for detailed cooks .

1200 payment to..

2661

for retired ...

1200 Erie Basin, N. Y.,

for undrawn clothing..

579, 1201

for interest on deposits...

579, 1201

deficiency appropriation for undrawn

clothing..

649

allowances to retired ; credit for all service . 1217

may deposit savings with paymaster ; in-

terest ..

579

appropriation for improvement of Lake

Erie entrance to..

737

Erie, Pa. , appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1080

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized ..

775

appropriation for..

791, 1298

Enlisted Men, Navy, appropriation for pay.

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

553, 1177

made ..

1116

refund of bounty if discharged the first

Ernest, Horatio,

year..

553, 1177 pension increased .

for reimbursing , losses San Francisco fire. 554 Ernst, Anton,

2460

appropriation for outfits; refund if dis-

granted honorable discharge..

2414

charged in six months ..

556, 1178 Ernst, Stephen,

allowed credit for all service in Army,

pension increased ..

1497

Navy, and Marine Corps ,, for retire

Erwin, Tenn.,

ment ...

451, 1217 appropriation for fish hatchery ..

721

Enrollment of Domestic Vessels, license and, consolidated in one document .
Ensenada, Mexico, classification and salary of consul ........

Escambia River, Fla. and Ala.,

136 1 appropriation for improvement of...

1087

bridge authorized across, between counties

100

of Escambia and Santa Rosa, Fla ... 1239

Escanaba, Mich.,

Entomology Bureau, Department of Agricul-

acquiring site and erecting public building

ture,

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for salaries..

688, 1273

appropriation for..

793, 1298

forgeneral expenses; tobacco worms, etc.;

Escheat,

white fly.

688, 1273 of lands of Five Civilized Tribes, intestate

for emergency fund, cotton boll

allottees, having no heirs....

145

weevil. gypsy and brown-tail moths .

695, 1280 696, 1280 Eskelson, David,

lots entered by, in Uintah Indian grazing

Envelopes, Postal Service,

1

reserve , restored to public domain.. 3228

appropriation for official registry and dead

letter....

476, 1215 Esler, Alexander,

contracts extended for six months .

476 pension increased .

1826

contracts for all Departments to be made by Postmaster-General for four
years ...
restriction on printed matter on-stamped , for sale .

Esmond, Friend S.,

pension increased ..

2080

476 Esquimaux, etc. , Alaska ,

appropriation for education of....

729, 1337

476-1 homestead allotments to ; conditions ....

197

INDEX.

3395

Esterly, George M., payment to, for loss of launch........
Essex River, Mass.,
appropriation for improvement of; condition ..

Page. 2467
1075

Estero Bay, Fla.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1112

Estes, John C.,

pension increased .

1644

Estes, Julia W. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1458

Estherville, Iowa,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for..

794

Estherville- Minim Creek Canal, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1084

Estill, William C. (son),

pension..

1787

Estimates,

annual, for Departments, to include all re-

quirements .

448

restriction on additional or special re-

quests ......

449

of receipts, expenditures, etc. , to be made

in annual report of Secretary of

Treasury

949

Estimates, Annual,

all printing and binding for Departments

to be estimated for in.......

762

Estimates for Government Expenses,

to be submitted according to arrangement

of previous year...

448

changes to be submitted by notes.

448

Estlow , James L.,

pension increased ..

2271

Ethnology, American,

appropriation for continuing researches . 704 , 1310

for protecting Casa Grande Ruin, Ariz .. 1310

for printing and binding reports and bul-

letins..

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for.

1403

Etue, Sarah S. (mother),

pension..

1922

Eubank, James J.,

pension increased .

2433

Eubank, John,

pension increased .

2055

Euclid Place, D. C. , -

deficiency appropriation for extending.... 641 Euclid Street, D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extension

a

of..

236

Eufaula, Ala.,

bridge authorized across Chattahoochee

River at..

325

two bridges authorized across Chattahoo-

chee River between Columbus and . 325

Eugene, Oreg.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for......

793, 1298

Eulogies,

printing ordered of, on Hon . John W

Cranford ...

826

Eureka, Cal. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

778

appropriation for..
terms of court at..... 66'Euterpe," Bark,

792, 1298 631

change of name authorized ....

626

Evans, Bridget (widow),

pension increased..

1635

Evans, David, pension increased....
Evans, Green, pension increased ....
Evans, James B. , pension increased .
Evans, John D., pension increased .

Page. 2242 2111 2318 2366

Evans, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

2638

Evans, Sarah M. ( widow), pension increased..

2030 .

Evans, William,

pension increased ..

1711

Evanston, Ill.,

appropriation for public building..

698

Evanston , Wyo.,

appropriation for public building.

698

limit of cost increased , public building .

774

appropriation for..

790

term of court at..

111

Eveland, Margaret E. (widow), pension..
Everett, David E., pension increased ..
Everitt, Charles H. , pension increased ..

2009 1483 1614

Everly, Aaron,

military record corrected , substituted for

John O'Neal...

1715

Eversole, John H. ,

pension increased ..

2082

Eversole, William B.,

pension increased ..

1627

Everson, Ira J.,

pension increased..

2583

Evening Gun, Army, appropriation for firing...

257, 1174

Everson, Nelson,

pension increased..

2328

Evidence, findings of Interstate Commerce Commis-

sion prima facie , in civil suits for

violations of regulations, etc. , by

carriers ...

589

certified copies of schedules, etc. , to be

prima facie, in all judicial proceed-

ings, etc ..

592

Ewing, John,

pension increased ..

2238

Ewing, Thomas J. , and others,

may bridge Tug Fork of Big Sandy River,

Warfield , Ky..

852

Ewing, William M.,

pension increased .

1795

Examinations and Surveys,

printing ordered of preliminary, under

river and harbor act 1905 ......

839

Examining Surgeons , Pensions,

appropriation for fees and expenses ; ex-

aminations .

133, 1406

reports to show rating and condition . 133, 1407

deficiency appropriation for fees ... 47 , 667 , 1403

Excise Board, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries...........

483, 1121

Executive Buildings , D. C., electric plants in, prohibited ; exception .. 1371

Executive Departments, D. C.,

appropriation for care, etc., grounds of. 734, 1342

compensation of heads of, established ..

993

annual estimates by heads of, to include all

requirements..

448

restriction on additional or special re-

quests ......

449

3396

INDEX.

Executive Departments, D. C. --Continued . details of employees outside of District to duty in, forbidden .. details to Civil Service Commission prohibited ...

Page. 449 948

report required of moneys received , and

not paid into the Treasury.

763

temporary details to White House author-

ized ...

401, 947

to record and report to Congress penalty

matter sent from July 1 to December

31, 1906 ....

473

transfers of employees unlawful before serv-

ing three years.......

449

Executive Departments, etc.,

cost of composition, illustration, etc. , of documents, chargeable to, preparing. 825

printing, binding, etc. , charged in pro-

portion as delivered ..

825

Executive Expenses, appropriations for....

400, 947

Executive Mansion, D. C. ,

appropriation for improving grounds south

of...

733, 1342

for care, etc. , grounds .
for repairs, etc .. for fuel ..

734, 1342 734, 1342 734, 1342

for greenhouses, etc.

734, 1342

for lighting...

734, 1342

Executive Office,

appropriation for Secretary of the President, assistants, clerks, etc ... 400, 947

temporary details from Departments,

etc.

401 , 947

for contingent expenses..

401, 947

for printing and binding.

761, 1368

Executive Office, D. C. ,

appropriation for Commissioners, secre-

tary, etc ..

482, 1119

for contingent expenses..

488, 1125

horses, etc. , to be used only on official

business ..

488, 1125

Expatriation (see also Citizenship),

not allowed in time of war..

1228

Expenditures of the Government,

statement for preceding year to be made by

Secretary of the Treasury in the an-

nual report....

949

Experiment Stations (see also Agricultural Ex-

periment Stations) ,

annual appropriation to States and Terri-

tories for, increased ; conditions ...

63

Experimental Gardens , etc. , D. C., . appropriation for expenses.

680, 1266.

Exports of Grain,

appropriation for grading, etc. , at points of

export .....

681, 1267

Exports of Meat Animals and Products,

animals to be inspected ; certificate of con-

dition ...

677, 1263

clearance forbidden unless certificate be

produced ..

677, 1263

carcasses to be examined ; certificate of

condition...

677, 1263

clearance forbidden unless certificate be

produced ....

677, 1263

Exposition, International Maritime, deficiency appropriation for participation . 1371

Exposition. Jamestown (see also Jamestown

Exposition),

deficiency appropriation for further aid to ;

conditions .

886

Express Companies, confinement of animals in interstate transit
by, limited ... time for rest, feeding, and watering re-
quired . included as common carriers in interstate
commerce regulations..... Extortion,

Page. 607 607 584

punishment for, by officers, etc. , extended ;

attempts included ..

546

Extra Copies of Documents,

provisions for printing; estimates ; excep-

tion ....

1013

meaning of term construed .

1013

Extradition ,

appropriation for bringing home criminals

from. abroad...

289,919

deficiency appropriation for bringing home

criminals from abroad ..

27

convention with Great Britain , adding

bribery and bankruptcy criminal

offenses .

2903

with Japan, adding embezzlement and larceny
treaty with Denmark extended to island
possessions, and bribery added .. with Haiti
with Norway, modified as to accessoriés . with Panama .. Extraterritorial Rights,

2951
2898 2858 2865 2851

treaty with Great Britain surrendering, in

Zanzibar

2870

Ezell, Gillum M.,

pension increased .

2591

Ezell ( née Bradley) , Victoria, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

365

F.

Facilities of Shipment, included as transportation in commerce regulations..
Facing Slips, etc., Postal Service, appropriation for..
Faggart, Rebecca (widow) , pension increased ...
Fagley, Benjamin, pension increased .

interstate 584
477, 1215 -2446
1515

Failer, William A. , pension increased ..
Fain, Fountain M., pension increased.
Fairbanks, Alaska, appropriation for survey of trail to Council City from... for erection of court-house and jail ...............
Fairbanks Land District, Alaska,

1967 2039
316 751

created; court officers to perform duties ... 1232

fees; surveys, etc ..

1232

Fairbanks, Retta M. (widow),

pension increased .

1478

Fairbrother, James R.,

pension increased .

2761

Fairchild, James B.,

pension increased .

2028

Fairhaven, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ..

1074

Fairley, Peter,

payment to.

2311

Fairmont, W. Va.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

781

appropriation for..

794, 1298

Fairport, Ohio, appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1095

INDEX.

3397

Falbisaner, Charles,
pension.. Fales, Warren M.,
pension increased .

Page. 1561
2717

Falkenburg, Elias S. ,

pension increased .

2250

Fallihee, Patrick,

pension increased .

1536

Fallon, Thomas T. ,

pension increased .

1580

Families, Heads of,

names in First Census of, to be published ;

sales ...

722

Fankell, George,

pension increased .

2040

Fargo, N. Dak. ,

* appropriation for public building ..

698

deficiency appropriation for furniture, pub-

lic building.

1374

terms of court at .

609, 610

Fargo, Sheldon B. ,

pension increased .

1910

Farington, David W.,

pension increased .

2171

Fariola, Octave L. F. E. ,

pension increased ..

2707

Farmers,

excepted from general provisions of meat-

inspection law...

679, 1265

Farmers' Bulletins,

appropriation for Congressional distribu-

tion...

690

for preparing, printing, etc.

690

for additional assistants, etc.

690

for printing, etc.; distribution ..

1367

Farmers Institutes,

appropriation for reports, etc. , on ...... 693, 1279

Farmerville, La.,

bridge authorized across D'Arbonne River

at ..

1254

Farner, Jacob,

pension increased ..

2375

Farnsworth, Hurlbutt L.,

pension increased ..

2472

Farquhar, John M. ,

pension increased .

1950

Farrand, Lyman E.,

pension increased .

1539

Farrar, Thomas J.,

pension increased .

2235

Farrel, Charles, pension increased .
Farrell, Arabella J. (widow), pension increased .
Farrell, Miss Bernice, payment to.
Farrell, Edward,
pension.. Farrell, John,
pension increased .

1946 2740 2660 1914 1673

Farrell, William H.,

pension increased.

2090

Farrington, Willard,

pension increased.

1928

Faulkner, William,

pension increased .

2404

Fauver, Samuel,

pension increased...

2400

Fay, Charles A.,

pension increased .

1638

Fay, Sylvenus A., pension increased ..

1561

Fayette Bridge Company,

may bridge Monongahela River, Browns-

ville, Pa..

128

Fayette County, Pa.,

Page.

time extended for bridge across Mononga-

hela River by...

1236

Fayetteville, Ark.,

construction of public building authorized

at; nominal site...

778

appropriation for..

792, 1298

Fayetteville, N. C.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for. Feather River, Cal.,

793, 1298

appropriation for improvement of......... 1107

Featheringill, Alfred,

pension increased..

2351

Feeble- Minded Children, D. C. ,
appropriation for maintenance.. Feeble- Minded Persons,

511, 1152

admission of alien, excluded ..

898

Feeley, William E.,'

pension increased .

2511

Fehr, Emma ( widow) ,

pension increased..

2516

Feigley, Mary C. (widow),

pension increased ..

1932

Felix, Andrew Jackson, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Felix, Dennie, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Felix, Henry, Indian Allottee,

fec-simple title to...

357

Felix, Peter, jr. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Fell, Benjamin F.,

pension increased..

2396

Fellows, Franklin J.,

pension increased ..

1622

Fellows, William H. H. , pension increased .
Felske, F. A. , payment to.
Fenn, Lena S. (widow), pension..
Fenton, John W., jr., deficiency appropriation for extra services .
Fenz, Frederick, pension increased...
Fenzl, Flora (widow) ,
pension... Ferber, Jacob,
pension increased ,
Fergerson, Joseph, pension increased .
Fergus, Alexander M., pension increased .

1897 2661 1549
43 2022 2574 1906 2604 2243

Ferguson, Bettie (widow),

pension Increased ..

2381

Ferguson, Caswell D. ,

pension increased .

1534

Ferguson, John H. ,

pension increased .

1478

Ferguson, William W.,

pension increased ..

2004

Fernald, James M.,

'pension increased .

1640

Fernandina, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of waterway

between Savannah , Ga. , and ....... 1085

for improvement of harbor..

1085

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

778

appropriation for..

792, 1298

title of certain claimants to lands in, con-

firmed ......

454

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-51

3398

INDEX .

Ferrell, Nancy V. J. (widow) , pension...

Page. 2198

Ferrell, Napoleon B.,

pension increased .

2360

Ferrier, Daniel T. , pension increased ..

1710

Ferries, included with railroads in interstate.com-

merce regulations if operated with .. 584

Ferris, Weston,

pension increased .

1783

Ferry, Francis H., pension increased...

2799

Ferryboats,

subject to steamboat inspection require-

ments .

.68, 194

Fessenden Street, NW., D. C. , . proceedings to condemn land for extend-
ing... appropriation for. Fetterman, George, pension increased.

855 856
2234

Feyler, Moses,

pension increased..

2417

Fiedler, Lydia A. (widow),

pension..

1745

Field Artillery, Army,

appropriation for, organized militia .... 257, 1174

balances available ..

1174

constitution of..

861

to consist of six regiments..

862

composition of regiments ; orderlies.

862

ofbatteries; additional noncommissioned

officers; limit ........... ....

862

assignment of officers ; promotions ..

863

filling vacancies.....

863

pay and allowances of enlisted men

863

Field Cannon, Army,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc.

463, 1059

Field, George H.,

pension increased .

2523

Field, Jacob A.,

pension increased .

1839

Field, Michael M.,

pension increased..

2779

Field, Minna Y. (widow),

pension increased..

2808

Frenop, Frederick,

pension. increased ..

2245

Fifield, Mary E. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1720

Fifteenth Light-House District,

tender for, authorized ..

996

appropriation for ..

1319

Files, John L.,

pension increased ..

1466

Filkins, Hiram ,

pension increased .

2810

Fillio, Edmund, '

pension increased ..

2444

Fillmore Forest Reserve, Utah,

proclamation establishing

3200

Filtration Plant, Washington Aqueduct, D. C.,

appropriation for care, etc

497, 1135

Finch, David L.,

pension...

1666

Finch, John,

pension increased...

2603

Findley, Carrie B. (widow),

pension increased..

1553

Fines, Penalties, etc. , Customs Service,

to be covered into Treasury as miscella-

neous receipts ....

1315

Finical, Benjamin F., pension increased..
Finkbonner, Charles, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to.. Finklea, Sarah Emaline (widow),
pension increased...

Page. 2083
378
1513

Finley, Nellie, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

365

Finney, J. M. T.,

appropriation for services...

1292

Fire Alarms, D. C.,

punishment for giving false...

220

Fire- Control Instruments, Army,

appropriation for field batteries .

1175

Fire-Control Instruments, Navy,

appropriation for battle ships, cruisers, and

monitors...

1180

Fire-Control Stations, Army,

appropriation for constructing, installing,

etc.

462, 1058 ,

in insular possessions ..

1061

deficiency appropriation for .

1401

Fire Department, D. C.,

appropriation for chief engineer, assistants,

etc .....

504, 1144

for miscellaneous ..

505, 1144

for contingent expenses .

505, 1144

for new houses...

505, 1144

for new apparatus..

505, 1145

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses..

119

for salaries, reorganization ..

642

for forage.

642

for equipping fire boat for ice breaking .. 1378

for coal.

1378

extent of, under Commissioners of the Dis-

trict ..

314

exclusive jurisdiction of Commissioners

over; rules, etc.....

314

personnel, subject to appropriations .

314

veterinarian surgeons.

314

schedule of salaries...

315

restrictions on resignations.

315

96

pensions to include mothers of members who died prior to March 1, 1905 ..... 95

Fire Escapes, etc. , D. C.,

provisions for, on tenement houses, flats,

etc ..

70

penalty for failing to provide, etc.

71

requirements modified; owners' respon-

sibility, etc.

1247

fireproof office buildings

1247

Fire Pumps on Steam Vessels,

location of, modified...

797

Firearms, D. C.,

restrictions on use of..

809

Firemen, D. C. , Volunteer,

may erect monument, on triangle, reserva-

tion No. 29.

788

Fireworks, D. C.,

license tax to store and sell..

13

First Assistant Postmaster-General,

appropriation for, superintendents of divi-

sions, clerks, etc ....

437, 982

for superintendent, etc. , appointment

division

437,983

for superintendent city delivery, etc .. 437 , 983

for postal service office of..

468, 1206

for postmasters , assistants, clerks , etc. 468, 1206

grading, etc., of clerks, carriers, etc ... 1206

for commencing building New York on

Pennsylvania Railroad site...

1210

for rent, light, and fuel ; leases .

471, 1210

for miscellaneous, first and second class

offices, and money-order service. 471 , 1210

INDEX.

3399

First Assistant Postmaster-General-Cont'd . · Page.

appropriation for canceling machines ... 471 , 1210

for assistant superintendents , salary and

allowance division ..

471, 1210

for city delivery.

471 , 1210

for travel and miscellaneous expenses 472, 1211

deficiency appropriation for miscellane-

ous first and secon ' class offices ..... 1406

First Baptist Church, Mount Pleasant, D. C.,

taxes refunded..

870

First Census,

names of heads of families in, to be pub-

lished; sales, etc..

722

First Colored Baptist Church, D. C. ,

taxes refunded..

869

Fish, Edmund,

pension increased .

1969

Fish, Joseph P. T. ,

right to allotment to be tried in Court of

Claims ....

34-4

Fish Lake Forest Reserve, Utah,

proclamation adding lands to ..

3189

Fish, Leander J., Quapaw Allottee,

alienation restrictions modified..

344

Fish, Lorenzo B.,

pension increased ..

2328

Fish, Samuel,

pension increased .

1883

Fish Wharf, D. C.,

regulations for sale of privileges author-

ized ...

72

Fisher, Ambrose R. , pension increased .

1763

Fisher, John,

pension increased .

1513

Fisher, Joseph C.,

pension increased .

2656

Fisher, S. Kate, ·

payment to..

2814

Fisher, Thomas C.,

pension increased ..

2594

Fisher, Tobias,

pension increased .

2331

Fisher, Willard P.,

pension increased .

2548

Fisher, William T. ,

pension increased ..

2560

Fisheries, Alaska (see also Alaska Salmon

Fisheries) ,

regulations for protection of..

478

Fisheries Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner, deputy,

clerks, etc...

717, 1324

for employees ..

717, 1325

for division of fish culture, office force 717, 1325

station employees..

717, 1325

employees at large..

719, 1327

distribution employees..

719, 1327

for inquiry division ...

719, 1327

for biological station, Beaufort, N. C. 720, 1327

for statistics division..

720, 1328

for vessel service ..

720, 1328

for contingent expenses.

720, 1328

for propagation.... for maintenance of vessels .

720, 1328 720, 1328

for inquiries.

720, 1328

for statistical inquiry .

721, 1328

for station, Wytheville, Va ..

721

Erwin, Tenn ...

721

Manchester, Iowa.

721

Baird, Cal....

721

Boothbay, Me.

1329

Spearfish, S. Dak .

1329

Alaska ..

1329

Fisheries Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor-Continued .
appropriation for repairs to " Grampus " for launch, salmon culture, Alaska.. for station, Cold Springs, Ga ... Saint Johnsbury, Vt., auxiliary. for steam launch, Boothbay Harbor, Me.

Page.
721 721 721 721 721

for protecting salmon fisheries, Alaska 721, 1329

deficiency appropriation for miscellaneous

expenses .

48, 1403

for ponds, Monument grounds ..

659

Fisheries, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, deputy, clerks, etc .. 717 , 1324

to approve fishways, dam across Choctaw-

hatchee River, Ala ...

102

Mississippi River, Saint Cloud, Minn .

538

Monticello, Minn ..

265

Missouri River, Mont ..

111

Pea River...

18

Red Lake River, Minn .

65

Rock River, Ill..

14

Saint Joseph River, Mich..

103

to cooperate in survey, etc. , of Maryland

oyster beds .

202

Fishery Congress , Fourth International,
appropriation for expenses, participation in Fishing in Alaskan Waters,
aliens prohibited from , except by rod, etc. Fishing Vessels and Boats,
international requirements of lights on, to prevent collisions at sea..
Fitch, Everett S., pension increased ..
Fitzgerald, Catharine F. (widow), pension increased ..
Fitzgerald, James E., pension increased .
Fitzgerald, Patrick, pension increased .

922 263
850 1656 2244 2777 2199

Fitzpatrick, Matt, pension increased ..

... 1705

Fitzwater, Stephen M.,

pension increased..

2672

Five Civilized Tribes of Indians,

appropriation for town-site expenses, Union

Agency, Ind. T ..

338, 1025

for leasing, etc. , Creek and Cherokee

lands ..

338, 1025

full-blood Indians .

1025

for expenses, sale of inherited , etc. ,

lands .

1025

for removing intruders, etc ..

339, 1025

for removing alienation restrictions on

allottees...

339, 1025

for highways, Creek and Cherokee lands . 339

for investigating fraudulent leases...

1026

for tribal schools ..

340, 1026

for completing work of Commission .. 340, 1026

access to tribal records..

-1027

for clerks, removing alienation restric-

tions ...

976

deficiency appropriation for removing in-

truders, etc.

39

for sale, etc. , Creek and Cherokee lands . 39

for removing alienation restrictions ..

39

for town-site expenses, Union Agency.. 39

Cherokees may purchase improvements of

intermarried whites .

1220

final disposition of affairs of.

137

final enrollment provisions..

137

applications filed prior to December 1,

1905 ...

137

motions to reopen.

137

enrollment of minor children .

137

status of illegitimate children .

137

3400

INDEX.

Five Civilized Tribes of Indians- Cont'd .

Page. Five Civilized Tribes of Indians- Cont'd.

Page.

payment to Cherokees failing to receive

final distribution per capita of all tribal

allotments ..

137

funds ..

143

equalization of Creek allotments contin-

ued ..

138

final completion of rolls ..

138

not applicable to Cherokee intermarried

whites..

138

approved roll of Cherokee freedmen.......

138

Cherokee freedmen, persons included...... 138 homestead allotments to Choctaw and

jurisdiction in suits in behalf of five tribes.. 144

pending suits...

144

set-offs allowed defendants ..

144

restrictions on alienations extended for 25

years ...

144

leases other than homesteads permitted ... 144

construction of prior conveyances .

144

lands taxable..

144

Chickasaw freedmen...

138

restriction on transfers to roll of citizens

leases by full-blood allottees, restricted;

record ..

145

by blood ..

138

deeds and patents to convey legal title

when recorded ...

138

pending contests not affected .

139

removal of principal chiefs for nonperform-

ance of duties..

139

disposition of lands of allottee dying intes-

tate without heirs..

145

claims of heirs of Mississippi Choctaws.

145

conveyances by heirs, of inherited lands.. 145

disposal of property by will permitted ..

145

restriction on full-blood Indians ...

145

approval of conveyances on failure of chief

to execute ..

139

effect of..

139

deeds by principal chief of Seminoles .

139

segregation of specified Choctaw lands.

139

appraisal of pine timber; sales directed . 139

records of discontinued land offices to be

transferred to clerk of district court . 139

transcripts; disposal of fees..

140

payments on account of loyal Seminoles ,

ratified ..

140

recoveries by individuals not barred ..

140

Court of Claims to hear claims against Mis-

sissippi Choctaws by estate of

Charles F. Winton..

140

tribal schools transferred to control of Sec-

retary of the Interior...

140

highways on section lines of Choctaw,

Chickasaw, and Seminole lands ..

145

payment of expenses ..

146

penalty for obstructing.

146

notices; damage suits..

146

power and light companies granted rights

of way for dams, etc ..

146

proceedings to acquire lands, etc.

146

municipal control , taxation , etc.

147

municipalities granted additional powers. 147

issue of scrip or certificates for improve-

ments .

147

taxation of tangible railroad property.. 148

all other property....

148

appeals from assessments to district court 148

lands belonging to tribes to be held in trust. 148

allotments ..

148

final distribution of school funds .

140

tribal revenues to be collected by special

officer....

-141

payment of claims .

141

tribal taxes abolished from December 31 ,

1905 ; refund ...

141

tribal governments, etc. , continued ; re-

strictions ...

148

acts, etc., to be approved by President .. 148

changes directed in enrollment of bill for

final disposition of affairs of.

2832

continuation of tribal governments .

822

accounting, delivery, etc. , of tribal prop-

erty ..

141

punishment for failure.

141

Choctaw and Chickasaw town lots reserved

ex-employees not to practice before Com-

missioner for two years..........

345

index of reports of commission to , ordered

printed.

2833

for mining leases, to be sold; pro-

permanent record of complete approved

ceeds ..

141

roll ....

340

forfeiture for nonpayment of town lots;

copies in recording districts .

340

resale...

141

punishment for illegal copying, etc...

341

reversion of streets, etc. , vacated by municipal corporations ..
coal and asphalt lands reserved from sale .. conveyance to owners of lands reserved
from allotment or sale... reversion for nonuser .
railway-easement provisions .. reversion on failing to pay, etc..

restriction of enrollment applications to

142

minors...

342

142

appearance of name on tribal roll not con-

strued as application...

342

142 Five Civilized Tribes of Indians, Commis-

142

sioner to,

142 deficiency appropriation for completing

142

work of..

39, 842

Murrow Indian Orphans ' Home , donation patents authorized ..
fractional rights of Choctaws and Chickasaws may be conveyed to
other lands conveyed to... tribal buildings , etc. , to be sold ; proceeds ..

Five Mile River, Conn.,

142 appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1076

Firico, Nocus, Indian Allottee,

142 alienation restrictions removed ....

346, 1028

142 Flack, W. II., late a Representative in Congress,

143 deficiency appropriation for pay to widow. 1396

deferred till dissolution of tribal governments ...
purchases by municipalities ..

Flags,

342 appropriation for decorating graves, Memo-

143

rial Day.

1165

residue of unallotted , etc. , lands to be sold;
proceeds ..... preferences to Choctaw and Chickasaw
freedmen... reversion for nonpayment..

Flags , Confederate Battle,

143 unidentified, to be delivered to Southern¸

Historical Society ..

837

143 Flagstad, Martin J.,

143 pension..

2483

tracts of nonagricultural, etc., Choctaw

Flaherty, Dennis,

and Chickasaw lands .

143 1 pension increased .

2266

agricultural lands limited to 160 acres to

Flanagan, Michael,

one person ...

143 pension increased .

2770

INDEX.

3401

Flandreau, S. Dak.,

Page.

appropriation for Indian school ....... 370, 1046

deficiency appropriation for Indian school,

John H. Roberts .....

38

Flanery, John L.,

pension increased .

2791

Flathead Agency, Mont.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 353, 1034

for support, etc. , of Indians of..

353, 1034

Flathead Indian Reservation, Mont.,

appropriation for survey, allotment, etc. ,

of lands in...

1034

deficiency appropriation for opening ceded lands of; reimbursable..
town sites reserved on unallotted lands of.
appraisal; rights of residents... sales, etc....
hot springs at Camas reserved; control..
water rights unimpaired .. appropriation for town-site expenses; re-
imbursable. Fleming, William,
military record corrected ..

205 354 354 355 355 355
355
2414

Fletcher, George W.,

pension increased .

2124

Fletcher, John W.,

pension increased .

1955

Fletcher, Lucius C.,

pension increased .

2241

Flewellen, James P.,

pension ...

2218

Flick, George W. ,

pension increased ..

1651

Flint, Mich.,

appropriation for public building.

1298

limit of cost increased, public building .. 773

Flint River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 1085

dam authorized across, at Porter Shoals .... 878

Flint, Wilbur F.,

pension increased .

2121

Flint, William H.,

66 pension increased .

1616

Flirt," Schooner,

appropriation for paying owners.

1292

Florence, Ala. ,

construction of public building authorized

at..

776

appropriation for...

791, 1298

Florence, Ariz.,

act of legislature authorizing repair of bridge

at, ratified .

1054

Florence Crittenton Mission, D. C. ,

appropriation for care of women and chil-

dren by; contract..

512, 1153

Florence, Italy,

classification and salary of consul .

100

appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

Florence, S. C., 7

terms of court at .

1002

Florer, John L.,

allowed to purchase land, Osage Indian

Reservation, Okla ...

542

Florida,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc.

435, 980

bridge authorized across Escambia River in. 1239

Florida East Coast Railway Company,

may construct and use embankment adjoin-

ing Key West military post ....

1169

Florida Southern Judicial District,

terms of court, Miami ...

226

Florida Straits,

landing, etc. , sponges taken by diving from,

prohibited; exception ........

313

Flournoy, Silas, pension increased ..

Page. 1860

Flowers, Kate (widow),

pension increased .

2593

Floyd, Jonathan E.,

pension increased..

1776

Fluegel, William,

pension increased .

1664

Flushing Bay, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1077

Flynn, Agnes (widow),

pension increased..

1676

Flynn, Anna (widow),

pension increased .

2298

Flynn, James,

pension increased ..

1819

Flynn, John,

pension increased .

1493

Foale, William R. P. ,

pension increased ..

1517

Foard, Mary Ann (widow),

pension increased ..

2783

Foat, William,

pension increased..

1575

Focht, Hiram,

pension increased .....

2674

Fog Signals, appropriation for expenses..

712, 1320

Fogg, George F. ,

pension increased .:

2636

Folding Room, House of Representatives,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc ..

395, 941

Folding Room, Senate,

appropriation for superintendent, assistant,

folders, etc..

391, 937

Foley, Laurence,

pension increased .

2025

Follin, James M.,

pension increased .

2196

Foltz, John,

pension increased .

1708

Fond du Lac, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor ... 1101

Fonda, John G.,

pension increased .

2138

Fonner, Joseph B. , alias John Havens,

pension.

1744

Food,

includes, in pure-food act, all articles of

food, drink, confectionery, or condiment used by man or animals ................. 769 Food Adulterations (see Pure-Food Act) . Food Products,

appropriation for investigating preserv-

atives; foreign tests , etc..

686, 1271

for chemical examinations of, for ex-

port..

686, 1272

for investigating adulterating, false label-

ing, etc., of imported ...

686

examination and detention of un-

wholesome, etc ...

686

Foods,

appropriation for expenses, preventing sale

of adulterated, etc.

1272

Foods, Proprietary,

provisions of pure- food act as to

771

Foor, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

2780

Foote, Asa M.,

pension increased ..

1568

Foote, Robert,

pension increased ..

2768

Forbes, Laura J. (widow),

pension increased ..

1435

3402

INDEX.

Forbes, Similde E. (widow), pension increased .

Page. 1972

Ford, David,

pension increased..

2082

Ford, Edward,

pension increased .

2515

Ford, Eli, alias Jacob Butler,

pension increased .

2693

Ford, Ezekiel C.,

pension increased ..

2719

Ford, Fayette E.,

pension increased .

2163

Ford, George F.

pension increased .

2426

Ford, Gilbert,

pension increased..

1504

Ford, James P.,

pension increased ..

1510

Ford, Orton D.,

pension increased .

1569

Foreaker, John W.,

pension increased..

1503

Foreign Commerce,

regulations of meat animals and products

in

674, 1260

Foreign Commerce of the United States,

appropriation for investigations for promo-

tion of

442, 987

cotton products ..

442

Foreign Counsel,

appropriation for services of, in special

cases .

754, 1361

Foreign Governments, Visiting Representatives

27

of,

entertainment of, allowed from emergency

fund ....

27

Foreign Intercourse (see Diplomatic and Con-

sular Service).

Foreign Mails, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc...

438, 983

for transportation.. for assorting mails on steamers .

475, 1214 475, 1214

for pier transfers, New York and San

Francisco...

475, 1214

for assistant superintendent, New York,

475, 1214

for balances due foreign countries .... 475, 1214

deficiency appropriation for....

658, 658

Foreign Markets for Agricultural Products,

appropriation for expenses, extending . 691 , 1276

Foreign Passenger Vessels,

steamboat inspection requirements.

68

Foreign Tariffs, appropriation for collating ..

444, 988

Forest Reserves (see also Forest Service) ,

appropriation for administration ex-

penses...

685, 1269

for restoring lands to public domain.. 724, 1333

for survey of...

728, 1336

deficiency appropriation for surveying... 47, 667,

728, 1402

area enlargedAshland, Oreg . Black Mesa, Ariz . Caseade, Oreg . Chiricahua, Ariz.. Diamond Mountain , Cal . Fish Lake, Utah.. Gallatin, Mont ..

3196, 3298 3218 3300 3244 3241 3189 3193

Gila River, and name changed to Gila,

N. Mex ..

3123

Grand Canyon, Ariz

3009, 3223.

Hell Gate, Mont.

3213, 3230

Holy Cross, Colo .

3286

Forest Reserves-Continued .

Page.

area enlarged-

Jemez , N. Mex .

3261

Kootenai, Mont. and Idaho ..

3253

Lake Tahoe, and name changed to Ta-

hoe, Cal. and Nev

3163

Lewis and Clark, Mont..

3304

Lincoln, N. Mex.

3216

Little Belt Mountains, Mont. , and name

changed to Little Belt

3180

Lolo, Mont.

3260

Madison, Mont

3148

Manti, Utah..

3188

Medicine Bow, Colo. and Wyo

3039, 3303

Montezuma, Colo....

3307

Mount Rainier, Wash., and name

changed to Rainier .

3296

Olympic, Wash.

3306

Park Range, Colo ..

3285

Payson, Utah

3127

Priest River, Idaho and Wash . San Juan, Colo ...
Santa Barbara, Cal.. Sawtooth, Idaho .. Sevier, Utah Sierra, Cal . Siskiyou, Oreg . Shasta, Cal. Stanislaus, Cal Uinta, Utah and Wyo . Uintah, Utah ... Uintah, Utah and Wyo.. Uncompahgre, Colo .. Wenaha, Oreg. and Wash . Wichita, Okla .. Yellowstone, Wyo. Mont. and areas modified--
Battlement, Mesa, Colo. Big Belt, Mont... Big Hole, Mont . and Idaho.. Bitter Root, Idaho and Mont Cascade Range, Oreg. Lincoln, N. Mex . Little Belt, Mont.. Madison, Mont San Isabel, Colo San Jacinto, Cal. Uinta, Utah and Wyo. Washington, Wash .. Weiser, Idaho ...

3257, 3309 3308 3238 3260 3187 3133 3280 3235 3229 3240 3116 3186 3282 3279 3207
Idaho ... 3049
3076 3283 3281 3044 3270 3175 3254, 3277 2995 3083 3276 3207 3068, 3297 3199, 3294

Yellowstone, Wyo . , Mont. , and Idaho.... Black Hills, S. Dak. , restrictions removed
from certain townships in Pennington County... breeding place for game animals in Grand Canyon, Ariz ... certain lands in Yellowstone, opened to homestead entries. consolidation of-

3291
883 607 62

Maury Mountain with Blue Mountains . 3302 Pikes Peak and Plum Creek timber land
reserves and South Platte Forest Re

serve, into Pikes Peak, Colo ...

3029

Tahoe and Yuba, into Tahoe, Cal. and

Nev., and area enlarged..

3232

designated as a game preserve, Canyon, Ariz .....
established-
Baboquivari , Ariz .. Bear Lodge, Wyo .. Bear River, Idaho and Utah. Beaver, Utah ... Big Belt, Mont .. Big Burros, N. Mex .. Big Hole , Mont ..

Grand

3063
3251 3287 3206 3189 3151 3274 3254

INDEX .

3403

Forest Reserves-Continued. established-
Blue Mountains , Oreg.. Cabinet, Mont. and Idaho
Caribou, Idaho and Wyo .. Cassia, Idaho
Charleston, Nev . Chesnimnus, Oreg . Cochetopah, Colo Colville, Wash..
Coquille, Oreg . Crazy Mountains , Mont Coeur d'Alène , Idaho
Diamond Mountain, Cal. Dixie, Utah Ekalaka, Mont .. Elkhorn, Mont . Fillmore, Utah Fremont, Oreg. Fruita, Colo .. Gallinas, N. Mex ..
Garden City, Kans .. Gila River, N. Mex .. Glenwood, Utah .. Goose Lake, Oreg. Gunnison, Colo .. Helena, Mont Hell Gate, Mont .. Henrys Lake, Idaho
Heppner, Oreg.. Holy Cross, Colo ... Huachuca, Ariz .. Imnaha, Oreg., in place of Wallowa and
Chesnimnus ..
Independence, Nev . Jemez, N. Mex .. Klamath, Cal.. Kootenai, Mont.. La Sal, Utah and Colo Las Animas, Colo .. Lassen Peak, Cal Leadville, Colo ... Lemhi, Idaho ... Little Rockies, Mont.. Lolo, Mont.. Long Pine, Mont . Magdalena, N. Mex . Manzano, N. Mex..
Maury Mountain, Öreg . Missoula, Mont ... Monterey, Cal .. Montezuma, Colo .. Monticello, Utah . Mount Taylor, N. Mex . North Platte, Nebr Otter, Mont... Ouray, Colo .... Palouse, Idaho . Park Range, Colo .. Payette, Idaho .
Peloncillo, N. Mex.. Pinal Mountains, Ariz Pinnacles, Cal. Plumas, Cal. Port Neuf, Idaho . Portales, N. Mex Pryor Mountains, Mont . Raft River, Idaho and Utah .
Ruby Mountains, Nev Salmon River, Idaho .. San Juan, Colo .. San Luis Obispo , Cal San Mateo, N. Mex.. Sawtooth, Idaho .. Sevier, Utah .

Page.
3194 3295 3267 3099 3252 3022 3101 3288 3299 3224 3256 3113 3147 3245 3024 3200 3231 3191 3243 3131 3126 3275 3226 3025 3196 3168 3052 3222 3144 3255
3284 3251 3182 3001 3225 3190 3289 3063 3013 3248 3290 3234 3235 3245 3257 3066 3250 3218 3106 3272 3239 3193 3305 3271 3293 3079 3067 3248 2991 3221 2992 3292 3178 3258 3247 3198 3250 3070 3217 3249 3058 3020

Forest Reserves-Continued .

Page.

established-

Shasta, Cal.

3157

Short Pine, S. Dak

3129

Sierra Madre, Wyo..

3242

Siskiyou, Oreg.

3239

Snowy Mountains, Mont .

3246

Stony Creek, Cal .

3273

Taos, N. Mex ...

3262

Tillamook, Oreg.

3310

Toiyabe, Nev ..

3278

Tonto, Ariz .

3166

Trinity, Cal .

2998

Tumacacori , Ariz ..

3263

Umpqua, Oreg..

3301

Uncompahgre, Colo ..

3109

Vernon, Utah

3197

Wallowa, Oreg Wasatch, Utah.. Weiser, Idaho .. Wenaha, Oreg. and Wash. Wet Mountains, Colo ... Yuba, Cal grant of land to Wisconsin for State.

3004, 3225 3055 3010
3096 3184
517

lands added to Sierra, Cal . , from Yosemite

Park.....

832

list of lands in, valuable for agricultural

purposes, to be made ....

233

counties in California excluded .

233

opening to homestead entry...

233

preference to present settlers .

233

patents by metes and bounds on re

quest ...

-233

no commutation allowed ; credit for

residence ...

233

additional homestead rights to present

settlers; payment...

234

entries in Black Hills, subject to mining,

irrigation, etc. , laws; limitations ... 234

restriction, Lawrence and Pennington

counties, S. Dak..

234

settlement to await official opening; set-

tlers' rights..

234

no further, or additions except by act of

Congress....

1271

permits for power plants, etc. , in San Ber-
nardino, Sierra, and San Gabriel, Cal. , to Edison Electric Company .. 163

right of way to Los Angeles through Sierra,

Santa Barbara, and San Gabriel , Cal. 801

sales of timber in California .....

684

· superseded-

Baker City, Oreg. , by Blue Mountains .. 3195

Chesnimnus, Oreg. , by Imnaha ...

3284

Logan, by Bear River, Idaho and Utah . 3206

Maury Mountain, Oreg., by Blue Moun-

tains .

3302

Wallowa, Oreg. , by Imnaha . Yuba, by Tahoe, Cal. and Nev..

3284 3232

ten per cent of receipts from, to be paid to .

States or Territories, for schools and

roads ..

1270

to be known as national forests .

1269

Forest Service, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries..

683, 1269

for general expenses ..

683, 1269

forest reserves to be known as na-

tional forests ..

1269

enforcement of game, etc., laws ... 683, 1269

forest reserve special fund , estimates

required after June 30, 1908 ....

684

ten per cent to States and Territories

for schools, etc ...

684, 1270

sale of timber, etc.; use of fund ..

684

for administration of national forests . 684, 1269

3404

INDEX .

Forest Service, Dept. of Agriculture- Cont'd. Page.

appropriation for agents, labor, etc ..... 684, 1270

for rent; leaves of absence .

684, 1270

for protecting range for buffaloes, Wichita

Game Preserve ....

696

for building Dismal River Reserve ..

696

for permanent improvements..

1270

detailed reports to be made .

1270

receipts to be deposited..

1270

permanent appropriation for refunding

deposits

1270

ten per cent of receipts to States and

Territories for schools, etc ...

1270

no further reserves or additions except

by act of Congress....

1271

deficiency appropriation for protecting

reserves .

667, 1403

for investigations.

667

protection of copyrighted matter in " Rules

and Specifications for Grading Lum-

ber, etc.".

836

Forked Deer River, Tenn. ,

appropriation for improvement of...

093

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

Forked River, N. J.,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1115

Forman, Henry H. ,

pension increased .

1804

Fornshell, Frank L. ,

pension increased.

1960

Fornwalt, Isaac,

pension increased .

2579

Fort Abraham Lincoln Military Reservation,

N. Dak.,

selection by North Dakota in lieu of school

lands entered on, abandoned

1218 .

Fort Assinniboine, Mont.,

'sale of army subsistence supplies to Mon-

tana citizens permitted..

1421

Fort Bayard, N. Mex.,

appropriation for water supply...

1348

admission of Navy and Marine patients... 1172

patients subject to army rules, etc ...

255

special ration allowance enlisted patients

at

250, 1166

Fort Belknap Agency , Mont.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of..

353, 1034

Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, Mont., lease of lands for sugar-beet culture, etc.,

permitted ; conditions...

1034

Fort Berthold Agency, N. Dak. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of..

360, 1042

additional allotment to Indians of..

1042

Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, N. Dak.,

certain entries, etc. , on ceded , validated .. 894

Fort Brady Military Reservation, Mich.,

part of, reserved for public building, Sault

Sainte Marie ...

190

Fort Buford Abandoned Military Reservation, N. Dak.,

deficiency appropriation for surveying............ 47

Fort Clinch Military Reservation, Fla.,

title of certain claimants to lands in, con-

firmed ...

454

Fort Columbia Military Reservaton, Wash. ,

right of way granted through ..

926

Fort Crittenden Military Reservation, Utah, general land laws extended to, abandoned . 808

Fort Crockett, Tex.,

appropriation for sea-wall embankment,

etc ..

742

Fort D: A. Russell, Wyo.,

appropriation for post hospital ..

255

Fort Dade, Fla.,

Page.

appropriation for cable, etc. , to mainland .. 464

Fort De Soto, Fla.,

appropriation for cable, etc. , to mainland .. 464

Fort Dodge, Iowa,

terms of court ..

912

Fort Donelson National Cemetery, Tenn.,

deficiency appropriation for road..

644

Fort Douglas, Utah,

appropriation for post hospital .

1172

exchange of lands, etc., with Le Grand

Young..

612

part of, granted Utah University; condi-

tions ...

195

Salt Lake City granted right of way through,

for boulevard ..

927

Fort Erie, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul........

100

Fort Gaines, Ala.,

appropriation for replacing ammunition,

etc., damaged by storm.....

1060

I.,

Fort Greble , R. Lor water supply.

1348

Fort Hall Indian Reservation, Idaho,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of...

334, 1023

for survey; plans for irrigating, etc. , ceded lands ..
for removal of Lemhi Indians to...
irrigation of lands of; lands for reservoir. water rights; lands of Indians, etc.. appropriation for; reimbursement ..
Fort Hall Indians,

334 730 1024 1024 . 1025

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 338, 1024

Fort Keogh Military Reservation, Mont.,

appropriation for bridge across Tongue

River, by Custer County ..

88

part may be used as experimental horse- :

breeding station ...

252

right of way granted through

187

Fort Lafayette, N. Y., Naval Magazine,

appropriation for public works..

568

Fort Leavenworth, Kans.,

appropriation for General Service and Staff

College ....

240, 1158

for military prison...

743

deficiency appropriation for military prison 32

Fort Lewis, Colo. ,

appropriation for Indian school ........ Fort McIntosh, Tex.,
appropriation for land, target range . Fort Mackenzie, Wyo.,
appropriation for post hospital .. Fort McRee, Fla. ,
appropriation for sea walls..

334, 1023 742 1172 1059

for replacing ammunition, etc. , dam-

aged by storm ..

1060

Fort Marion, Fla.,

deed of " The Lines," for school purposes to

Saint Johns County..

913

right of way granted across.

1219

Fort Mason, Cal.,
appropriation for general depot for army supplies; contracts for construction. 257

Fort Mifflin, Pa. , Naval Magazine, appropriation for public works

567, 1190

Fort Mojave, Ariz., appropriation for Indian school ....

332, 1021

Fort Monroe, Va.,

appropriation for artillery school ....... 240, 1158

for additional land

742

for wharf expenses .
for repairs of roads, etc for sewer system .

743, 1348 743, 1348 743, 1349

INDEX.

3405

Fort Morgan, Ala. ,

Page.

appropriation for replacing ammunition,

etc., damaged by storm..

1060

Fort Moultrie, S. C.,

appropriation for wharf, etc.

743

for protecting wall .

1059

Fort Niagara, N. Y. ,

deficiency appropriation for buildings ; use

of amount for land....

644

Fort Niobrara Military Reservation,

dam authorized across Niobrara River at.. 297

right of way for trolley line, etc. , through.. 297 Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.,

appropriation for land, target range.

742

Fort Peck Agency, Mont..

1

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

at ..

353, 1034

Fort Pickens, Fla.,

appropriation for sea walls

1059

for replacing ammunition, etc., damaged

by storm

1060

Fort Porter, N. Y.,

tunnel under grounds, for Buffalo water

supply, authorized ..

532

Fort Putnam, West Point, N. Y.,

appropriation for restoring..

531, 1073

Fort Rice Military Reservation, N. Dak.,

homestead laws extended to abandoned ... selection by North Dakota in lieu of school 808

lands entered on abandoned

1218

Fort Riley, Kans.,

appropriation for cavalry and field artil-

lery school....

240, 1158

Fort Robinson Military Reservation, Nebr.,

grant of portion of, to Crawford, Nebr. , for

park, etc

461

Fort Saint Philip, La. ,

appropriation for rebuilding protecting

levees .

1059

for replacing ammunition, etc. , damaged

by storm..

1060

Fort Sam Houston, Tex.,

appropriation for additional land ..

252

Fort San Juan, Cuba,

use of transport " Sumner" to convey Com-

mission, etc. , to dedication of battle

monuments ..

821

Fort Scott, Kans.,

appropriation for road to national cemetery ;

conditions

1347

Fort Screven, Ga. ,

appropriation for sea wall..

742

Fort Shaw Abandoned Military Reservation,

Mont.,

disposal of lands in..

228

lands reserved for Indian school..

under reclamation act.

229 229

Fort Sheridan, Ill.,

additional land for, authorized ; funds

available ..

1348

Fort Sherman Reservation, Idaho,

proclamation granting part of, to Coeur

d'Alene for cemetery..

3004

strip of land for highway to Kootenai

County ..

456

Fort Sill Military Reservation, Okla.,

right of way through, to Wichita Mountain

and Orient Railway Company...

613

Fort Smithand Van Buren Bridgeand Traction

Company,

may bridge Arkansas River, Van Buren,

Ark ..

21

penalty for violations of orders, etc ....

22

885889 22

Fort Snelling, Minn. , `
appropriation for drill hall.. for bridge across Mississippi River to Saint Paul.
construction of bridge authorized across

Page. 743
1346

Mississippi River between Saint

Paul and.. contribution of expenses 66

limit of cost, etc ..

67

68

payments for constructing bridge, to be

under Secretary of War..

1418

Fort Supply, Okla.,

act of Oklahoma legislature concerning in-

sane asylum at, ratified .......

853

Fort Taylor, Fla. ,

appropriation for additional land ..............

1169

Fort Totten, N. Dak. ,

appropriation for Indian school........ 360, 1042

Fort Totten, N. Y. (see also Submarine Defense School),

appropriation for submarine defense school..
for machinery, etc. , army torpedo depo2t4. 0, 114,6549

for torpedo repair shop....

1061

Fort William Henry Harrison, Mont.,

appropriation for water supply..

742

Fort Worth, Tex. ,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized .. appropriation for.. Fort Wright Military Reservation, Wash.,

5775 790, 1298

right of way granted through.. Fort Wright, Wash.,

865, 927

appropriation for additional land........................ . 742 Fortifications,

appropriation for modernizing older em-

placements.. for fire-control installations

462, 1058

for purchase, tests, etc., of range finder4s6,2, 1058

etc.

for harbor searchlights

462, 1058

for preservation and repair...

462, 1058

for protecting walls, Fort Moultrie, S. C4.62, 1059

for sea walls, Forts Pickens and McKee, 1059

Fla ..

1059

for repairs, etc. , defenses of' Pensacola,

Fla...
for repairs, etc. , defenses of Mobile, for levees Fort Saint Philip, La... for plans. for electric plants, etc ..
for sea walls.
for preserving torpedo structures .: for submarine mines, care, etc..
contracts, etc... for armament. for machine and automatic guns,

1059 Ala. 1059
1059
462, 1059 462, 1059 462, 1059 462, 1059
462, 1059 463
ca4r6-3, 1059

riages, etc.

463, 1059

for mountain, field , and siege cannon:

for ammunition..

463, 1059

for seacoast cannon

463, 1059

for ammunition...

463, 1059

for inspecting instruments..

463, 1060

for ammunition, etc. , seacoast artille4r6y3, 1060

practice... for altering, etc. ,

mobile

artillery ......

446633,,

11006600

for ammunition for field, etc. , prac-

tice .

for altering, etc. , seacoast guns .

463, 1060

balance available ..

463, 1060

463

for alterations for rapid-fire field material .

for repairing damages, etc. , Gulf coast 1060

tornado.. 1060

3406

INDEX.

Fortifications-Continued . appropriation for converting muzzle-loading to breech-loading guns for saluting, etc issue of heavy ordnance for State encampments, repealed...

Page. 1060 1060

for expenses, Sandy Hook proving

ground ...

464, 1060

for Watertown Arsenal .

464

for Watervliet Arsenal .

464

for powder factory..

464

for cables from Forts Dade and De Soto,

Fla .....

464

for purchase, etc. , submarine mines .. 464, 1061

for torpedo depot , Fort Totten, N. Y. 464. 1061

for torpedo planter, Pacific coast..

1061

for insular possessions, seacoast bat-

teries ....

464, 1061

fire-control installations ; range finders . 1061

harbor searchlights ..

1061

submarine mines, care, etc ....

1061

sites, Hawaiian Islands ..

464

seacoast cannon ..

465, 1061

mounting 12-inch rifles ..

465, 1061

ammunition...

465, 1061

inspecting instruments, range finders,

etc ..

465, 1061

altering, etc., seacoast artillery. purchase of submarine mines

465, 1062 1062

method authorized for charging indi-

rect expenses...

1062

for Board of Ordnance and Fortification 465,

1062

for civilian member; necessary expenses 465,

1062

for tests, etc....

465, 1062

inquiry as to right of invention , etc. 465, 1062

purchases to be of American manu-

facture ..

465, 1062

deficiency appropriation for fire-control in-

stallations

1401

purchase of land on Deer Island, Boston ,

Mass.; conditions ..

457

Fortifying Pure Sweet Wines,

wine spirits defined ; grape brandy in-

cluded ..

215

pure sweet wine, the fermented juice only;

tests ..

215

grape must, sugar and water allowed; 1

limit

215

regulations for adding water

215

recovery of wine spirits; permits

215

tax payable; remission of deficiency tax,

etc.

215

use for fortifying wines..

215

special gaugers to be assigned ; expenses.. 216

bond requirements extended ; other con-

ditions ....

216

fermenting vats at winery or adjacent dis-

tillery; supervision .

216

remission of tax on brandy accidentally

destroyed ..

216

penalty for illegal recovery of spirits from

fortified wines ...

216

rectifying, etc. , with other distilled

spirits...

216

blending permitted without special tax ;

conditions ..

216

Forty-fifth Street NW. , D. C., proceedings to condemn land for extend-
ing, to Nebraska avenue .... appropriation for... Forty-sixth Street NW., D. C., proceedings to condemn lands for opening. appropriation for...............

1004 1005
994 994

Fosdick, Andrew J., pension increased .

Page. 2128

Foskett, Liberty W..

pension increased .

2732

Foss, Augustus,

pension...

1441

Foster, Almon,

pension increased .

1502

Foster, Alonzo,

pension increased .

2645

Foster, Charles E.,

pension increased .

2668

Foster, Charles W. ,

pension increased .

2360

Foster, Dolores S. (widow),

nension increased..

2274

Foster, Harvey,

pension increased .

1896

Foster, Jessie E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2146

Foster, Joseph W.,

pension increased .

1689

Foster, Margaret E. (widow),

pension increased .

1779

Foster, Mary A. (widow), pension increased..
Foster, Mary O. (widow), pension increased .
Foster, Matilda (widow), pension...
Foster, Samuel, pension increased .
Foster, Samuel II., pension increased .
Foster, William, pension increased .

1867 2671 2240 1436 1822 2497

Foulk, Rachel A. ( widow),

pension increased....

1560

Foundation for the Promotion of Industrial

Peace,

established ; trustees created .

1242

duties of trustees; industrial peace com-

mittee ....

1242

annual, etc., conferences of committee.

1242

expenses; property holding ; offices

1243

cooperation with similar institutions ...

1243

Foundlings Hospital , D. C. ,

appropriation for care, etc. , of children in;

contracts ..

512, 1153

Fountain, William H.,

pension increased .

2736

Fourteenth Street NW. , D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for extending. 640, 1377 Fourth Assistant Postmaster-General,

appropriation for, superintendents, etc .. 438, 984

for postal service, office of.

476, 1214

for postal supplies ..

476, 1215

for rural delivery.

477, 1215

for expenses, shipping supplies ..

1215

for travel and miscellaneous expenses . 477, 1215

Fourth Baptist Church, D. C. ,

taxes refunded ..

869

Fourth Light-House District,

relief vessel directed ..

995

appropriation for...

1319

Fourth Street NE., D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

ing, to Hamlin street..

857

appropriation for...............

857

Foutty, Thomas B. ,

pension increased .

2291

Fowler, George M.,

pension increased .

2318

Fowler, James W. ,

pension increased .

1903

INDEX .

3407

Fowler, Noah C., pension increased..

Page. 1831

Fowler, Susan N. (widow), pension increased ..
Fowlkes, Calvin B., pension increased .
Fox, Charles B. , pension increased.

2262 ... 2774
1838

Fox, Emily (widow),

pension increased..

2303

Fox, Emma (widow),

pension....

2176

Fox, Henry Jacob,

pension increased ..

1889

Fox, John, North Carolina Volunteers,

pension increased..

2270

Fox, John, Ohio Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2396

Fox River, Ill.,

location of dam in McHenry County to be

changed ....

1102

Fox River Navigable Water-Way Association,

permission to change dam of, in McHenry

County , Ill..

1102

Fox; William,

pension increased .

2200

Fox, William C.,

pension increased .

2186

Fox River, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1101

post lights authorized on...

996

appropriation for.....

1319

Frahm , August,

pension increased ..

1754

France,

appropriation for ambassador to .. for secretary of embassy. for second secretary.. for third secretary....

286, 916 287, 917
287, 917 287, 918

deficiency appropriation for paying Sa-

moan claims ..

635

France, Isaac C. ,

pension increased ..

1970

Francis, Ann, Chippewa Indian,

appropriation for printing record of title,

etc ..

381

available for clerk's costs .

656

Francis, George A. ,

pension increased .

1484

Frankford Arsenal , Pa. ,

appropriation for additional power; pav-

ing, etc...

1339

Frankfort; Germany,

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire...........

294, 924

Frankfort, Mich. , appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1097

Franking Privilege,

loan of franks to committees, organizations,

and associations prohibited ....

477

not applicable to committees of Members

of Congress...

477

Franklin, Benjamin, additional memorial medals of, authorized . 615
invitation to attend celebration of two

hundredth anniversary of birth of,

accepted

2830

Franklin County, Wash. ,

bridge authorized across Columbia River,

between Benton County and ..... 108, 866

Franklin, Ga.,
bridge authorized across Chattahoochee River, between Columbus and ............. 324

Franklin, La.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of inland waterway to Mermentau, from ;

contracts .

1089

Franklin Street NE. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

ing..

844

' appropriation for .

844

Franklin, William H.,

pension increased..

1747

Franks, Lafayette,

pension increased .

2231

Franks, Leola V. (widow),

pension...

1575

Franz, Jacob,

pension increased ..

1855

Frapp, William, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

365

Fraser, Angus,

pension increased..

2684

Frasier, Francis H. ,

pension increased .

1745

Fraternal Societies,

registration of emblems as trade-marks ,

not allowed ...

1251

Fray, Alice A. (widow) ,

pension.

1926

Frayer, Andrew J.,

pension increased.

2759

Frazer, George M.,

pension increased ..

1740

Frazier, James,

pension increased ...

1500

Frazier, Nannie (daughter),

pension .

1473

Frazier, Orlando W. (son),

pension...

1764

Frazier, Samuel H.,

pension increased .

1913

Frech, Louis T. ,

pension..

2313

Frederick, Clarissa A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2341

Frederick, Helen A. (widow),

pension..

1485

Fredericksburg, Mo.,

bridge authorized across Gasconade River

at..

388

Fredericksburg, Va. ,

appropriation for road to national ceme-

tery..

259

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1298

Free Delivery Postal Service (see City Deliv-

ery and Rural Delivery).

Freedmen, Indian (see Five Civilized Tribes) .

Freedmen's Hospital and Asylum , D. C. ,

appropriation for care of indigent patients . 510, 1151

for salaries...

731, 1339

for expenses .

731, 1339

for new building.

1331

for equipment .

1331

Freeland, Fleming H.,

pension increased ..

2180

Freeman, Edwin,

pension increased ..

2142

Freeman, Harmon , alias Harman Storme,

pension increased ..

2019

Freeman, Laura M. (widow),

pension increased ..

2670

Freeman, Maitland J.,

pension increased ....

1485

3408

INDEX .

Freeman, Orrin, pension increased ..
Freeman, Susan R. (widow), pension increased .
Freeman, William, pension increased .
Freese, Charles J., pension increased .

Page. 2528
2194 2776 2452

Freiburg, Germany, classification and salary of consul ........ 100

Freight Depots, etc.,

included with railroads in interstate com-

merce regulations ...

584

Freight, Navy and Navy Department, appropriation for....
Freight, Postal Service,

571, 1193

appropriation for, on postal cards, supplies, etc.; withdrawn from mails ..... 473, 1212

Freight Rates,

schedules required of interstate carriers... 586

Fremont County, Colo. ,

resurvey of a township in.

868

Fremont Forest Reserve, Oreg..

proclamation establishing...

3231

French, Benjamin,

pension increased ..

1699

French Broad River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of.

1094

French, Daniel,

pension increased .:

2512

Frpeenncshi, oJnosienpcrhe, ased..

2063

French, Lucian W.,

pension increased ..

1919

French Spoliation Claims, appropriation for defense in.............

752, 1358

deficiency appropriation for defense in .. 40, 656

French Telegraph Cable Company,

appropriation for costs of repair to cable,

Puerto Plata ..

1292

French Trans- Atlantic Cable Company, payment to..
Frenier, Louis, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Fresno, Cal., appropriation for public building.......

1714 357 *1298

Frett, John, jr.,

pension increased..

2333

Frick, John,

pension increased ..

2189

Friebele, Frederick,

pension increased ..

1892

Fried, Richard T.,

pension increased.

1639

Friend, Charles H.,

pension increased..

1716

Frier, Arby,

pension increased ..

1881

Fritts, William E.,

pension increased ..

1703

Frizelle, Matilda °C. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1937

Frost, Charles R., pension increased ..
Frost, John W., pension increased ..
Fruit Farms, special provisions for entries for, under reclamation act.......
Fruita Forest Reserve, Colo.,
proclamation establishing. Fuchau, China,
classification and salary of consul ............... Fuchs, Sebastian,
pension increased .

1927 2528
519 3191
99 2524

Fuel Hucksters, D. C.,

Page.

not required to pay additional tax for stor-

ing, etc ..

13

Fuel, Lights, and Water, Public Buildings,

appropriation for..

707, 1314

deficiency appropriation for.

45

Fuel Substances,

appropriation for testing, etc.; collection of materials for examination, etc. 728, 1335

Fugitivesfrom Justice,

convention for surrender of, with Great

Britain, crimes added..

2903

with Japan, crimes added.

2951

treaty for surrender of, with Denmark, ex-

tended to island possessions, etc

2898

with Haiti.....

2858

with Norway, modified as to accessories . 2865

with Panama..

2851

Fuhrman, John L.,

pension increased..

2045

Fulgham, Oscar,

reimbursement to .

2702

Fulk, William R.,

pension....

2289

Fuller, Alden,

pension increased .

1846

Fuller, Alonzo W.,

pension increased .

2694

Fuller, Daniel,

pension increased

2544

Fuller, Henry A.,

pension increased ..

2766

Fuller, Joseph,

pension increased ..

2119

Fuller, Oscar A.,

pension increased ..

2763

Fuller, Sarah Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ..

2587

Fulmer, Harvey J.,

pension increased .

1669

Fulton, Charles W.,

pension increased .

1578

Fulton, Robert L.,

pension increased .

2197

Funchal, Madeira,

classification and salary of consul......

100

Furey, Thomas,

pension increased .

1784

Furlong, William,

pension increased ..

1485

Furman, Jesse M.,

pension increased .

1650

Furniture, Public Buildings, appropriation for, and repairs .... deficiency appropriation for.

707, 1314 28, 45

Fyffe, Willa (widow),

pension increased ..

2496

G.

Gadsden, Ala. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

778

appropriation for.........

792, 1298

Gaffney, Patrick,

pension increased .

2136

Gafford, John,

payment to assignee of...

2701

Gage, Marshall U., pension increased .

1724

Gage, Theodoric, pension increased...

. 2789

Gahan, John W.,

pension increased .

2497

Gain, Lucinda ( widow),

pension increased...

1801

INDEX .

3409

Gainesville, Fla.,

Page.

limit of cost increased , public building..... 773

appropriation for..

1298

Gainesville, Ga.,

construction of public building authorized

at ..

776

appropriation for.

791, 1298

Gainesville, Tex.,

enlargement of public building at, au-

thorized ..

775

appropriation for.

790

Gainsback, John,

pension..

1471

Galbraith, Cate F. (widow) ,

pension increased..

1751

Galbraith, Sarah F. (widow),

pension increased .

1739

Galcatcher, Betsy, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

345

Gallatin County, Mont.,

bridge authorized across Missouri River,

Broadwater and..

456

Gallatin Forest Reserve, Mont.,

proclamation adding lands to..

3193

Galligan, Edward W.,

pension increased ..

2426

Gallinas Forest Reserve, N. Mex.,

proclamation establishing...

3243

Gallion, William R.,

pension increased.

1923

Gallipolis, Ohio, inspector of hulls and boilers for, abolished 106

Galloway, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2386

Galloway, Virginia C. (widow),

pension increased..

2801

Gallt , James (father) ,

pension..

1596

Galveston Ship Channel, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ..

738, 1092

Galveston, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor ;

contracts ....

738, 1090

channel ; restriction.

1090

channel to Texas City.

1091

for customs boarding boat`.

1011

for building, etc. , for immigrant station

at .

1412

foreign-built dredges used at, to be docu-

mented ..

204

Gamble, Harvey,

pension increased .

2144

Gamble, James L.,

pension increased .

2194

Game,

appropriation for preventing shipment of

illegally killed ..

689, 1274

Game and Fish Laws, D. C., appropriation for enforcing ..

489, 1126

Game Animals,

breeding place for, in Grand Canyon Forest

Reserve ...

607

Game Birds and Animals, D. C. ,

killing, etc. , of wild birds prohibited ;

penalty...

808

English sparrows excepted..

808

permits to shoot crows, etc. , destroying

crops or poultry..

808

hunting, etc., without permit, squirrels ,

rabbits, etc. , prohibited ; penalty.. 808

special permit to shoot English sparrows,

etc.; penalty...:

809

firearms regulations, additional , authorized . 809

Game Birds and Animals, D. C. - Cont'd . Page.

waterfowl hunting, etc. , restricted to boats

with oars; penalty .

809

marsh hunting restricted..

809

Game, Charlotte (widow),

pension increased...

2510

Game Preserves,

killing, etc., birds or taking eggs on, for-

bidden ; penalty...

536

proclamation declaring Grand Canyon For-

est Reserve, Ariz . , as a..

3263

Wichita Forest Reserve, Okla. , as a..... 3062

Gangwer, Stephen, pension increased .
Gannon, James, pension increased .

2474 1821:

Garbage, D. C. ,

appropriation for removing... deficiency appropriation for removing Garden City Forest Reserve, Kans. ,
proclamation establishing... Garden Produce Farms,

495, 1132 119
3131

special provisions for entries for, under

reclamation act....

519

Gardener, George,

pension increased .

2138

Gardiners Bay, N. Y.,

preliminary examination to be made of

channel between Three Mile River

and ..

1115

Gardner, Anna M. (widow),

pension increased .

1465

Gardner, Asa A.,

pension increased .

2664

Gardner, Henry G.,

pension increased .

1580

Gardner, James H.,

pension increased .

1326

Gardner, James M. ,

pension increased .

2786

Gardner, Orrin A. A. ,

pension increased .

2075

Gardner, Robert D.,

pension increased..

2105

Garfield Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for isolating wards, minor

contagious cases.....

506, 1146

for maintenance....

745

for support of destitute patients ..

1351

for renewal of plumbing..

1351

deficiency appropriation for isolating

ward ..

642, 1379

Garland, Darius E.,

pension increased .

2395

Garland, Joseph P. ,

pension increased ..

2226

Garland, Rebecca (mother),

pension increased ..

1468

Garnsey, Francis D. ,

pension increased .

2217

Garrett, Elias W.,

pension increased .

2720

Garrett, William S. , pension increased .
Garrison, Silas, pension increased ...

1933 2599

Garrison, William H., pension increased....

2606

Garritt, James M. ,

pension increased ..

1659

Garst, Samuel S., pension increased .

1875

Garvey, Alice (widow),

pension....

2009

3410

INDEX.

Garvey, Dominick, pension increased .

Page. 2580

Garvey, Patrick,

pension increased .

1454

Garvie, James, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .....

357

Gary, Ind.,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made....

1113

Gas Companies, D. C.,

detailed annual reports required from .... 1133

Gas Lands, Osage Indian Reservation, Okla. ,

provisions for leasing, royalties, etc...

543

Gas- Motor Vessels,

steamboat inspections for..

194

Gasconade County, Mo.,

may bridge Gasconade River, Fredericks-

burg..

388

Gasconade River, Mo. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1105

bridge authorized across, Fredericksburg.. 388

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1114

Gaskey, Andrew J. ,

pension increased .

2297

Gaskill, Eugene,

pension increased

1641

Gaskill, George H.,

pension increased .

1860

Gaskill, Harvey,

pension increased .

1439

Gaskin, William H.,

deficiency appropriation for extra services . 43

Gasoline, etc., Oils, D. C.,

license tax to store and sell...

13

Gasolinefor Motor Boats,

may be carried on vessels not carrying pas-

sengers for hire ......................

204

Gaspe, Quebec,

classification and salary of consul ...................

100

Gates, Jonathan F.,

pension increased

1633

Gates, Levi,

pension increased .

2292

Gates, Theodore W.,

pension increased..

2670

Gatewood, Elison,

pension increased .

2510

Gaudineer, Frederick P.,

pension increased.

2655

Gaunt, Mary Ann (widow),

pension increased...

1614

Gaus, Michael,

pension increased .

2516

Gause, Elmira M. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2100

Gautier, William H.,

pension increased ..

2029

Gay, Joel,

C pension increased.

2194

Gaylord, George,

pension increased .

1690

Gaylord, Lucy A. (widow) ,

pension..

2581

Gaynor, William,

pension increased .

1750

Gearey, George W. ,

pension increased .

1490

Gearkce, Alice (widow) , pension increased .
Geary, Michael J. pension increased .

1588 * 2739

Geduldig, Henry A. ,

pension increased .

2346

Gee, Francis,

pension increased

1449

Gee, Nancy Ann (widow),
pension.. Geiger, Jacob A.,
pension increased .

Page. 1987
1511

Gein, Louis H., pension increased .
Gemmill, John, pension increased ..
General Act, International, for reforms in Morocco..

2156 1786 2905

General Appraisers, Board of, solicitor of customs and assistants to appear

before; duties, etc ...

763

General Grant National Park, Cal. ,

appropriation for management, etc. 729, 1337

General Land Office (see also Public Lands) ,

appropriation for Commissioner, assistant,

clerks, etc .....

429, 975

for temporary force, San Francisco

earthquake...

429

for investigations , etc.

430, 975

for maps; distribution .

430, 975

for mine inspectors ..

430, 975

for transcripts from plats and records. 724 , 1333

for rent, supplies, etc. , San Francisco,

earthquake..

434

for reproducing records, etc. , San Fran-

cisco earthquake..

1336

deficiency appropriation for reproducing

plats, etc..

653

for surveying...

653

General Land Office, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc .. 429, 975 to sell isolated tracts of land at auction .... 517 "General Levi Harris, " Schooner,

appropriation for paying owner, loss of

yawl..

1291

General Service and Staff College, Fort

Leavenworth, Kans. ,

appropriation for instruction expenses .. 240, 1158

General Staff Corps, Army,

appropriation for contingent expenses,

military information..

240, 1158

for translator, etc. , military information

division...

246, 1163

Geneseo Place NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands, for extend-

ing; name changed to Summit

place..

846

appropriation for.

846

Geneva Convention, 1864, Conference for Re-

vision of,

deficiency appropriation for delegates .... 118

Geneva, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building......

698

Geneva, Switzerland,

classification and salary of consul .

99

Genoa, Italy, classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire.....
Genoa, Nebr., appropriation for Indian school ..

99 294, 924
355, 1039

Gentles, Henry, alias Henry Hopner,

pension increased ...

1999

Geodetic Association for Measurement of the

Earth, International,

appropriation for annual quota. for expenses of delegate to..

291, 921 715, 1322

Geological Survey,

appropriation for Director, clerks, etc .. 726, 1334

for scientific assistants .

727, 1335

assignments of pay permitted.

727

reimbursement for expenses..

727

for general expenses..

727, 1335

for skilled laborers, etc.

727, 1335

INDEX .

3411

Geological Survey-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for topographical surveys . 727, 1336

for geological surveys....

727, 1336

for paleontologic researches ..

727, 1336

for investigating mineral resources of

Alaska .

1336

for chemical and physical researches. 727, 1336

for preparing illustrations....

727, 1336

for report on mineral resources .

727, 1336

for books, etc.

727, 1336

for geological maps....

727, 1336

furnishing transfers , etc., of data;

charges....

727

for gauging water supply.

728, 1335

for investigating structural materials . 728, 1335

for testing, etc. , fuels; collection of mate-

rials ...

728, 1335

for survey of forest reserves .. for additional storage room, etc

728, 1336 728

for additional rent..

1336

books, etc,, for reclamation service

1336

for International Seismological Associa-

tion ...

728

for reclamation service, rent, etc.
allowance to disbursing officer for rent....

728
729 434, 979

for engraving illustrations..

760, 1367

for printing and binding..

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for..

47, 667, 669

for investigating black sands; rent.

37

for investigating Alaska mineral re-

sources.:

37

for geological maps.. for surveying forest reserves . for James W. Spencer....

47, 1402 47,667, 1402
654

printing ordered of fourth annual report of Reclamation Service..
George, John, pension increased .
George, Lewis S. , pension increased .

836 2794 1942

George, Reuben A. ,

return from President requested of bill to

pension ...

2838

George Washington University Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for care of indigent patients . 511.

1151

George, Zachariah,

pension increased .

1800

Georgetown, British Guiana,

classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire...

99 294, 924

Georgetown University Hospital, D. C. ,

appropriation for care of indigent patients . 511 ,

1151

Georgia, Florida and Alabama Railway Com-

pany, may bridge Chattahoochee River between

Columbus and Franklin ...

324

may build three bridges across Chatta-

hoochee River, Eufaula, Ala. , to

Columbus, Ga....

325

Georgia Southern Judicial District,

southwestern division abolished , and Al-

bany created..

547

counties assigned ..

547

Georgia, Southwestern and Gulf Hailroad Com-

pany,

may bridge Chattahoochee River at Steam-

mill, Ga....

931

Gerard, John B. ,

pension increased .

1883

Gerhardt, Sebastian,

pension increased..

2761

German-American Alliance, D. C., The Na- Page.

tional,

incorporated; scope,..ights, etc ....

928

German Baptist Brethren Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded ...

869

German Emperor,

acceptance ofdecoration by, to Prof. Simon

Newcomb, permitted

1713

German Orphan Asylum, D. C.,

appropriation for care, etc. , of children in;

contract....

512, 1153

Germantown, Pa. , Site and Relic Society,

bell of late sloop of war Germantown".

presented to...

828

"Germantown, " Sloop ofWar,

bell of, presented to Germantown, Pa. ,

Site and Relic Society ....

828

Germany,

appropriation for ambassador.to..

286, 916.

for secretary of embassy.. for second secretary..

287, 917 287, 917

for third secretary.

287, 918

deficiency appropriation for Samoan claims 635

reciprocal commercial arrangement with.. 3192

Gersteneker, Jacob W. ,

pension increased..

1963

Gerth, Susie M. (widow),

pension...

1971

Getter, Jacob B.,

pension increased...

2737

Gettysburg National Cemetery, Pa., appropriation for superintendent's lodge .. 741

Gettysburg National Park, Pa., appropriation for establishing ...
Ghent , Belgium,
classification and salary of consul ..... Ghrist, Sarah L. (widow),
pension increased..

744, 1350 100
2062

Gibbon, Ellen A. (widow),

pension increased .

-1854

Gibbons, John, pension increased .
Gibbs, Delia (mother) ,
pension.. Gobs, Richard J.,
pension increased .

1588 2167 2729

Gibraltar, Spain,

classification and salary of consul .......

100

Gibson, Appleton,

pension increased..

1611

Gibson, George,

pension increased .

1603

Gibson, George C. , pension increased ..

2686

Gibson, Louisa C. (widow), pension increased ..
Gibson, Milo G., pension increased ..

2106 1720

Gipbesnosni, oTni.minoctrheyasIeId., .

2799

Gibson, William,

pension increased .

1976

Giffen, John,

pension increased....

2121

Gifford, Ellen S. (widow),

pension....

2336

Gifford, Lestina M. ( widow),

pension increased .

1828

Gila Forest Reserve, N. Mex. (see also Gila

River Forest Reserve, N. Mex. ),

proclamation changing name of Gila River

Forest Reserve to, and extending

area

3123

3412

INDEX .

Gila River Forest Reserve, N. Mex. (see also Gila Forest Reserve, N. Mex .),
proclamation changing name to Gila For-
est Reserve, and extending area...
proclamation establishing.. Gila River Indian Reservation, Ariz.,
appropriation for constructing irrigating system for .
Gilbert, John M., pension increased ..
Gilbert, Leander, pension increased ..
Gilbert, William H. , pension increased..
Gilborne, Davis, pension increased..
Gilbrech, Jacob, pension increased..
Gildersleeve, William H., pension increased..
Gilham, Henry, pension increased ..
Gilkeson, Hansford G.,
pension... Gillam, Burrell H. ,
pension increased . Gillam, Daniel W. ,
pension increased ..
Gillem, Mary J. (widow), pension increased ..
Gillen, Stephen, pension increased ..
Gillespie, Edward, pension increased .
Gillespie, William O., pension increased.
Gillette, George D., payment to..
Gilley, Alice E. (widow),
pension. Gilliland, John M.,
pension increased .
Gillispie, John E. , alias John G. Elliott, pension increased ..
Gilman, Lemuel O., pension increased.
Gilmore, Caroline A. (widow),
pension... Gilmore, Kate (widow),
pension increased .. Gilmore, Isaac B. ,
pension increased .
Gilpatrick, Thomas W., pension increased .
Gilrain, Michael F., pension increased .
Gilson, George W. , pension increased ..
Gilsonite, etc., Deposits, lands in Uncompagre Reservation, Utah, containing, to be sold ..
Ginther, John, pension increased .
Gipson, William , pension increased.
Girdler, Joseph, pension increased .
Girdler, William, pension increased .
Girvan, William J., pension increased .
Glasgow Land District, Mont., established ; boundaries ; office ...
Glasgow , Mo. , bridge authorized across Missouri River, at .

Page . | Glasgow , Scotland, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire .

Page. 99
294, 924

3123 Glaspie, Andrew P. ,

3126 pension increased .

2213

Glauchau, Germany,

classification and salary of consul...

100

333 Glavis, Loucette E. (widow),

pension increased.

1589

2550 Glazner, Sion B., pension increased .
2105 Glenwood Forest Reserve, Utah,
proclamation establishing... 1969 Glisan, William R.,
pension increased ...

1618 3275 , 1467

2724 Gloucester, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 736

2800 preliminary examination of harbor to be

made .

1114

1720 Gloversville, N. Y. ,

limit of cost increased , public building .

773

1763

appropriation for ..........

789

Goats,

2428 provisions for inspection, etc. , of carcasses,

and products in interstate and for-

2756

eign commerce ..

674, 1260

Goble, Mary M. (widow) ,

2476 pension increased ..

2399

Godfrey, Florence H. (widow);

2372 pension.

2133

Godwin, William T.,

1462 pension increased .

1820

Goebel, Christian H.,

1938 pension increased.

1920

Goebel, Valentine,

1684 pension increased ..

2646

Goetz, H. Edward,

2661 pension...

1774

Gogin, Richard,

1496 pension increased .

2810

Gold and Silver Articles,

2712 transporting, etc., with fineness falsely

marked, unlawful .....

260

2362 gold ; deviation in marked fineness al-

lowed ...

260

1761

watch cases, etc.

260

tests; actual fineness required .

260

2711 silver; deviation in marked fineness al-

lowed ..

261

1853

requirements for " sterling" and " coin'

goods .

261

2762

tests; actual fineness required..

261

plated ware; marking required for gold

2704

goods.... ""

261

use of " sterling' or 'coin" prohibited

2779

on silver..

262

punishment for violations.

262

1949 signification of articles of merchandise'

262

original packages not exempt ...

262

in effect in one year..

262

3214 Gold Certificates,

issue suspended when reserve fund falls

2084

below $50,000,000 .

202

may be issued in denominations of ten dol-

1834

lars .

1289

coin to be held for payment....

1289

1729 receivable for all dues, etc ...

1289

issue suspended when coin and bullion in

2513

reserve fund for notes falls below

$100,000,000 ..

1289

2240

may be suspended when notes and silver

certificates in Treasury exceed

929

$60,000,000 .

1289

one-fourth to be fifty dollars or le

1289

818 issue of $10,000 certificates ..

1289 :

INDEX .

3413

13388

Gold Coin,

Page.

appropriation for recoining.

706, 1313

deficiency appropriation for recoining ...

28

issue of certificates suspended when reserve

fund falls below $50,000,000 ...

202

below $100,000,000 ..

1289

coinage of bullion in reserve fund in

excess of $50,000,000 ...

202

notes and silver certificates in Treasury

exceed $60,000,000 ...

1289

Golder, Henry,

pension increased ..

1836

Goldfogle, Hon. Henry M.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses

661

Goll, Helen (widow),

pension...

2468

Gonzaga College (Saint Aloysius Church) , D. C.

taxes refunded ..

869

Gonzales, Tex.,

construction of public building authorized

at; nominal site...

778

appropriation for.. Good, Christian M. ,

...... 792, 1298

pension increased..

2350

Good Conduct Commutation, United States 1

Prisoners,

extended to existing sentences .

149

Good Hawk, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

357

Good, Henry,

pension increased .

1871

Good, Mary A. ( widow),

pension increased ..

1926

Goode, Joseph J.,

pension increased .

2085

Goodell, Edwin R. ,

pension increased .

1527

Goodell, Hiram M. , pension increased .
Goodier, John R. , pension increased

1966 2500

Gooding, John,

pension increased ..

2785

Goodland Indian Orphan Industrial School,

Old

lands of Choctaws set aside for ..

341

Goodlander, Henry,

pension increased .

2560

Goodrich, Samuel B. T. ,

pension increased .

2688

Goodsell, Jerome,

pension increased .

1682

Goodteacher, George, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

357

Goodwin, E. C.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 43

Goodwin, Emma E. (widow),

pension increased .

2172

Goose Creek, S. C. , dam authorized across, in Berkeley County
Goose Lake Forest Reserve, Oreg.. proclamation establishing..
Gootee, Thomas N., pension increased ..

265 3226 2638

Gordon, Ephraim A. ,

pension increased .

1453

Gordon, George H. , alias Gorton,

pension increased ..

2086

Gordon, George W.,

pension increased ..

2197

Gordon, Isaac,

pension increased ...

2350

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-52

Gordon, Ironsides and Fares Company (Lim- Pago.

ited),

duties refunded

2815

Gordon, John Ard,

pension increased .

2225

Gordon, Larvan,

homestead entry confirmed ...

2817

Gorton, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ..

1792

Goree-Dakar, Africa,

classification and salary of consul.

100

Gorman, Arthur Pue, late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for wido

661

Gothenburg, Sweden,

classification and salary of consul.

100

Gough, John F. ,

pension increased .

2779

Gould, Abbie B. (widow) ,

pension increased..

1784

Gould, Elijah G.,

pension increased .

2100

Government Exhibit, Jamestown Exposition,

preparation, installation , etc., of..

764

appropriation for all expenses..

764

for buildings; construction , etc.

765

Government Hospital for Insane, D. C. ,

appropriation for support of indigent in-

sane ..

512, 1153

for current expenses..

730, 1338

for buildings and grounds .

730, 1338

for assembly hall ..

1338

for plans, etc., for assembly hall

730

deficiency appropriation for printing; reim-

bursement.

37

for fire protection ..

37

disposition of moneys belonging to deceased

inmates ..

730

sale of intoxicating liquors near, prohib-

ited ..

870

Government Printing Office (see Public Printing and Binding),

appropriation for leaves of absence .... 761 , 1368

deficiency appropriation for leaves to em-

ployees..

... 120, 1398

transfer of appropriations for leaves of ab-

sence..

44, 1398

Governors Island, N. Y.,

appropriation for enlargement, etc ..

1349

Governors of States and Territories,

invited to send militia to Jamestown cele-

bration ......

3205

Gowanus Bay, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of chan-

nel ..

736, 1344

Gowdy, William H.,

release of sureties on bond of..

2813

appropriation for payment to.

2813

Grabill, Ira,

pension increased ..

1733

Grade Crossings, D. C. , Elimination of (see also Union Station , D. C. ),

appropriation for damages, etc. , union rail-

road station , etc ..

490, 1126

for improvement of plaza ; limit, etc.. 1127

ascertainment of damages, on line of Phila-

delphia, Baltimore and Washington

Railroad ; payment.....

624

Graffam, William T. , alias William Rivers,

pension increased .

2672

Grafton, W. Va.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

784

appropriation for .

796

3414

INDEX .

Graham, Anderson, pension increased .

Page. 2518

Graham, Arthur, pension increased .

.2642

Graham, Benjamin F.,

granted honorable discharge..

2064

Graham , Ellen R. (widow),

pension increased ..

1478

Graham, Jacob A. ,

pension increased .

2399

Graham, James,

pension increased .

1533

Grahams Island, N. Dak.,

restored to public domain ..

360

subject to allotment to Turtle Mountain

Band of Chippewas....

361

Grain and Seed,

appropriation for inspection and grading of,

for export, etc... Grain Elevators, etc.,
testimony, investigation of,
printed Gramberg, Mary (widow),
pension increased..

681, 1267 ordered
2837
2354

Grand Army of the Republic, D. C.,

punishment for unauthorized wearing in-

signia of.....

62

Grand Army Soldiers and Sailors' Home, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses.. Grand Calumet River,

512, 1153

bridge authorized across, in Illinois ....... Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, Ariz.,
game preserve to be set apart in proclamation adding lands to..

1234
607 3009

hunting, etc., animals in, unlawful ; pun-

ishment for violations..

607

proclamation modifying area.

3223

declaring, a game preserve..

3263

Grand Detour, Ill.,

construction ofdam authorized across Rock

River near

14

Grand Forks, N. Dak.,

terms of court at ..

609, 610

Grand Haven, Mich appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1097

Grand Island Harbor, Lake Superior,

range lights established at ; light station to

be discontinued ..

996

appropriation for....

1319

Grand Island, Nebr.,

construction ofpublic building authorized. 777

appropriation for.

791, 1298

terms of court at...

998

Grand Junction, Colo.,

appropriation for Indian school .... 334, 1023 deficiency appropriation for Indian school . 38

Grand Lake, La., appropriation for lighting channel ...... 713, 1320

Grand Lodge Independent Order of Odd Fel-

lows, D. C.,

may sell Odd Fellows Hall ..

614

authorized to purchase and hold property:

limit...

614

Grand Marais, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor of

refuge ..

1096

Grand Marais, Minn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1101

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

1114

Grand Rapids, Mich. ,

public building to be disposed of, and new

one erected on site; cost..

785

appropriation for...

796, 1298

rent....

1298

Grand River, La., appropriation for improvement of....
Grand River, Mich., appropriation for improvement of..................

Page. 1089
1097

Grandaw, William H.,

pension increased ..

2727

Grande Ronde Agency, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

at..

369, 1045

Grande Ronde Indian Rerervation, Oreg.,

appropriation for purchase of lands for John Smith and Jane Isaac, allottees . 1045

Grandy, Melvin, pension increased .

1931

Granniss, Mary W. (widow), pension....

2690

Grant, Fanny M. (widow), pension..

2746

Grant, Fannie S. (daughter), pension..

2723

Grant, John J.,

pension increased ..

1513

Grant, Julia P. (widow) , pension increased .

2363

Grant, Lewis A., pension increased ..

2440

Grant Memorial, D, C.,

appropriation for erection of; site, etc ..... 735

Grant, William ,

pension increased ..

2706

Grass, Harman, pension increased .....

2721

Grasses, etc.,

test of seeds, etc. , Canada bluegrass... 681 , 1267

Graves of Confederate Soldiers and Sailors, appropriation for marking graves, etc., of, who died in northern prisons and
hospitals .... Graves, Sewell F.,
pension increased

56 1973

Gray, Charles P., pension increased .

2252

Gray Cloud, Arthur, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to.
Gray, Frank N., pension increased .

373 , 1694

Gray, George,

reappointed on Board of Regents, Smith-

sonian Institution..

1419

Gray Horse, Okla.,

lands, buildings, etc. , reserved for benefit -

of Osages; sales..

542

Gray, James,

pension increased

2003

Gray, Marcena C. S., pension increased .
Gray, Washington D., pension increased.
Gray, William E., pension increased .

2463 2432 2478

Gray, William S.,

pension increased ..

2421

Grays Harbor, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of, and bar

entrance; contracts ....

1108

inner portion..

1108

preliminary examination to be made for

ship canal to Puget Sound ..

1118

Grays River, Wash. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1108

Grayson, James D. , 

pension increased .

2530

Grayson, Joel, appropriation for.

395, 941

INDEX.

3415

Grayson, John T., pension increased ..
Great Britain, appropriation for ambassador to..

Page. 2771
286, 916

for secretary of embassy. for second secretary . for third secretary. for clerks at embassy.

287, 917 287, 917
287, 918 289, 919

for reports, etc. , Joint High Commission

on Canadian questions...

292

for marking Alaska and Canada boundary

under treaties, etc ..

292, 922

for marking boundary under treaty of

1842 with....

292, 923

forjoint commission on use of Saint John

River..

292

convention with, for marking boundary between Alaska and British posses-

sions ....

2948

extradition convention with, crimes added . 2903

negotiations with, requested to preserve

Niagara Falls, etc ..

628

treaty with, surrendering extra-territorial

rights in Zanzibar .

2870

Great Council of the United States Improved

Order ofRed Men, D. C.,

incorporated; powers, etc..

117

Great Diamond Island, Me.,

preliminary examination to be made of

passage between Peaks Island and .. 1113 Great Falls, Mont.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

780

appropriation for.. Great Kanawha River,

793, 1298

appropriation for lighting..

713, 1320

Great Lakes,

1

appropriation for lighting channels of.. 713, 1321

diversion of waters of, may be fixed by

Congress..

626

Great Lakes Naval Training Station,

appropriation for maintenance.

556, 1178

for buildings.

567, 1189

preparation, etc. , of plans ; architects,

etc.

567

Great Nemaha Agency Indians, Kans.,

share of minors, etc., in trust funds may be

paid to guardians..

356

Great Pedee River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..... 1084, 1344

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

Great Salt Pond, Block Island, R. I., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1075

Great Sodus Bay, N..Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1078

Great South Bay, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1077

Greece and Montenegro,

appropriation for minister to..

287, 917

for secretary of legatión...........

287, 917

Greeley, Almond,

pension increased ..

2151

Green Bay, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor ... 1101

for public building..

1298

limit of cost increased , public building... 774

Green, Charles,

pension increased .

2399

Green, Ella B. (widow),

pension increased .

2278

Green, Galen E.,

granted honorable discharge....

2412

Green, George K., pension increased .

2114

Green, George S., pension increased .

Page. 2189

Green, George W.,

pension increased .

2575

Green, Hannah W. (widow),

pension....

1470

Green, Hugh,

pension increased..

1725

Green Jacket Shoal, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of................ 739 , 1345

Green, John,

pension increased .

1811

Green, Joseph E.,

pension...

1868

Green, Louis,

pension increased .

2646

Green, Nathaniel,

pension increased..

2426

Green, Peter,

granted honorable discharge....

2414

Green, Philo,

pension increased .

2056

Green, Thomas J.,

pension increased

2649

Green, Walter,

pension increased ..

1837

Green, William H.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment..

653

Greenawalt, Ephraim,

payment to...

2406

Greencastle, Ind.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for..

794

Greene, Catharine A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2631

Greene, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

1468

Greene, Walter D.,

pension increased.

2438

Greeneville, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement, etc. , na-

tional cemetery..

1348

terms of court.

298

Greenlee, Samuel,

pension increased :.

1722

Greenhill, R. I.,

life-saving station established at ........

298

Greensburg, Pa. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for.

795

Greenville, Miss.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

779

appropriation for..

793, 1298

Greenville, Ohio,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for..

793, 1298

Greenville, S. C.,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized ..

776

appropriation for...

791, 1298

appropriation for acquiring site and erect-

ing public building at .

793

terms of court at.....

1002

Greenville, Tex.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1299

3416

INDEX.

Greenwich, Conn.,

Page:

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1076

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for .

794

Greenwood, S. C.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

781

appropriation for .

193, 1299

Greer, Benjamin F.,

pension increased....

1904

Gregg, G. Annie (widow) ,

pension increased..

2118

Gregg, Louisa,

pension

1967

Gregg, Playford,

pension increased .

1774

Gregg Shoals, Savannah River,

dam authorized at....

876

Gregory, Eleanor (widow) ,

pension increased .

1992

Gregory, Horace A. ,

pension increased ..

1858

Gregory, John,

pension increased ..

2546

Grell, Jacob,

pension increased ..

2681

Grenoble, France,

classification and salary of consul ....

100

Gresham, William,

appropriation for value of dory..

1291

Grier, Josiah M.,

pension increased..

1572

Griesc, Wilhelm,

pension increased .

2192

Griffeth, Milton A. ,

pension increased .

2058

Griffin, Ga.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ...

782

appropriation for..

794

Griffin, George N., pension increased .

2373

Griffin, James H.,

pension increased .

1802

Griffin, Oliver II.,

pension

2336

Griffin, Robert Henderson,

pension increased..

1761

Griffith, David D.,

pension increased .

1631

Griffith, Peleg T., granted honorable discharge.
Griffith, Thomas, pension increased .
Griffith, Thomas M. , pension increased .
Griffith, William F. , pension increased .
Grimm, John, pension increased ....
Grimsley, Amelia E. (widow), pension increased ..

2214 1743 2536 1872 2493 1880

Grissom, Joseph C., pension increased.
Griswold, Isaac L. , pension increased .
Griswold, Lester M. P., pension increased .

1708 2653 2714

Gritts, Levi B., William Broun and, may bring suit in Court of Claims for Chero-

kces, to determine validity of laws

restricting alienation, etc.

1028

Grizzle, James,

pension increased.

1766

Groezinger, Gotlob, refund of taxes to administrator of.......

Page. 2309

Groff, Marcelina S. (widow),

pension.

1650

Grogan, Harriet E. , formerly Preston,

pension increased.

1671

Grossman, Louis, pension...
Grover, Andrew J., pension increased .
Groves, Andrew II., pension increased .
Grow, William J., pension increased
Guadalupe River, Tex.,
appropriation for improvement tracts ...

of; con-

1801 2280 2578 1501
1091

Guadeloupe, West Indies,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Guam ,

appropriation for public works, naval sta-

tion...

566, 1188

for buildings for lepers, etc ..

1189

acknowledgment of deeds etc. , affecting lands in District of Columbia or Ter-

ritories

552

head tax, provisions as to aliens in..

898

passenger list of vessels to United States

from, to be given immigration offi-

cer of port on arriving.

902

transportation permitted on transports to.. 1171

Guantanamo, Cuba,

appropriation for light-house service, naval

station ...

713

for marine barracks..

1191

for hospital for laborers..

1192

Guardians, D. C.,

jurisdiction ofjuvenile court over, neglect-

ing, etc., children..........

74

Guatemala,

appropriation for minister to...

916

for secretary of legation....

917

Guatemala and Honduras,

appropriation for minister to..

286

for secretary of legation..

287

Guatemala, Guatemala.

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

Guayaquil, Ecuador, classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire...........

294, 924

Gude, Alfred,

pension increased..

2106

Gude, Henry,

military record corrected ...

2063

Guile, Charles H.,

pension increased .

2178

Guilroy, Margaret (widow),

pension...

2483

Guiney, Jeannette M. (widow),

pension increased ..

2503

Guion, William R.,

pension increased .

1747

Guiott , Joseph,

pension increased .

2059

Guitar, Henry, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

356

Gulfof Mexico,

appropriation for surveys of coasts ...... 714 , 1321

landing, etc. , sponges taken from, by div-

ing, prohibited ; exception ..

313

GulfQuarantine Station , Ship Island, Miss., appropriation for reconstructing, etc ...... 1307

Gulfport , Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of anchor-

age basin, etc.

1088

INDEX .

3417

Gulfport, Miss. --Continued .

Page.

appropriation for improvement of channel

to Ship Island Harbor........

1344

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

779

appropriation for..

793, 1299

payment for dredging channel and anchor-

age basin, Mississippi Sound between Ship Island Harbor and ..... 833 Gull Lake, Minn. , appropriation for low reservoir dam , headwaters of the Mississippi River ..... 1105

Gunderson, Ole,

pension increased ...

2727

Gunnery Exercises, Navy,

appropriation for prizes, targets, etc ... 556, 1178

deficiency appropriation for........

1385, 1402

Gunnison Forest Reserve, Colo..

proclamation establishing .

3025

Guns, Automatic, etc.,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc ..

463, 1059

Gunselman, Valentine, pension increased...

.... 1904

Gunton-Temple Memorial Presbyterian Church,

D. C. ,

taxes refunded...

869

Gurley Memorial Presbyterian Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

870

Gurnee, Jonas,

pension increased ..

2460

Gurney, Ruth B. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1482

Gustus, John,

pension increased .

2493

Guthrie, Christopher S.,

pension increased .

2073

Guthrie, David B. ,

pension increased .

2060

Guthrie, Margaret E. (widow),

pension increased .

2417

Guthrie, Okla. ,

to be capital of State until 1913 .

269

terins of court..........

275

Guy, Henry,

pension increased....

1692

·Guyandot River, W. Va.,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1118

Guin, Isum,

pension increased .

2165

H.

Haack, John,

pension increased .

1685

Haas, Frank P.,

pension...

1479

Habana, Cuba,

classification and salary of consul -general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.....

293, 923

Hackett, James B.,.

pension increased .

2691

Hackley, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1482

Hackney, James F.,

pension increased ..

1848

Hackney, William H.,

pension increased .

1919

Hadley, Weymouth,

pension increased!.

2370

Hadsall, John E.,

pension increased .

1538

Haferstein, Gottfried,

pension increased..

2805

Hagan, Lawrence,

pension increased .

2345

Hagar, Lucas, pension increased .

Page. 1781

Hagemiller, Herman,

pension increased .

2479

Hager, James W.,

pension increased ..

2057

Hager, John,

pension increased .

2443

Hagerstown, Md.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

779

appropriation for.

792, 1299

Hague Convention , The,

appropriation for expenses, court of arbi-

tration created by .

291 , 921

Hague Peace Conference, Second International,

appropriation for expenses, participation in 922

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

Commission

118

Hahn, Henry,

pension increased..

1895

Haight, Allen M.,

pension increased ..

2347

Hailey Land District, Idaho,

proclamation reserving lands for town site entries under reclamation act, in ... 3215

Haines, William,

pension increased ..

1991

Hains, Benjamin, pension increased .

2260

Hair, David H.,

pension increased..

2166

Haire, Arthur,

pension increased..

1693

Haiti,

appropriation for minister to..
extradition treaty with Halbert, Marion F. ,
pension increased..

287, 917 2858
2155

Halbert, Mary J. (widow),

pension increased .

2019

Hale, George W.,

pension...

1652

Hale, William,

pension increased .

2680

Iales, James R.,

pension increased .

1788

Haley, Martin,

pension increased .

2171

Halfiron, John, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

357

Halifax, Nova Scotia, classification and salary of consul-generai.: 99

appropriation for clerk hire ......

294, 924

Hall, Anna Frances (widow),

pension increased .

1837

Hall, Edwin S. ,

payment to..

2310

Hall, Henry D.,

pension increased .

1853

Hall, James P., pension increased .

2090-

Hall, John B.,

pension increased .

1887

Hall, John W.,

pension....

1847

Hall, John W. , Mexican War,

pension increased..

2525

Hall, Josiah,

pension increased .

2234

Hall, Levi M.,

pension increased ......

2182

Hall, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased....

2213

3408

INDEX.

Freeman, Orrin, pension increased ..

Page. 2528

Freeman, Susan R. (widow),

pension increased .

2194

Freeman, William,

pension increased .

2776

Freese, Charles J.,

pension increased ..

2452

Freiburg, Germany,

classification and salary of consul..................... 100

Freight Depots, etc.,

included with railroads in interstate com-

merce regulations.....

584

Freight, Navy and Navy Department, appropriation for..
Freight, Postal Service,

571 , 1193

appropriation for, on postal cards, supplies, etc.; withdrawn from mails .. 473, 1212

Freight Rates,

schedules required of interstate carriers ... 586

Fremont County, Colo.,

resurvey of a township in..

868

Fremont Forest Reserve, Oreg.,

proclamation establishing..

3231

French, Benjamin,

pension increased .

1699

French Broad River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1094

French, Daniel,

pension increased .

2512

French, Joseph,

pension increased .

2063

French, Lucian W.,

pension increased .

1919

French Spoliation Claims, appropriation for defense in..

752 , 1358

deficiency appropriation for defense in.. 40, 656

French Telegraph Cable Company,

appropriation for costs of repair to cable,

Puerto Plata.......

1292

French Trans-Atlantic Cable Company,

payment to..

1714

Frenier, Louis, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Fresno, Cal.,

appropriation for public building.....

1298

Frett, John, jr.,

pension increased ..

2333

Frick, John,

pension increased .

2189

Friebele, Frederick,

pension increased .

1892

Fried, Richard T.,

pension increased .

1639

Friend, Charles H.,

pension increased ..

1716

Frier, Arby,

pension increased..

1881

Fritts, William E.,

pension increased ..

1703

Frizelle, Matilda°C. (widow),

pension increased .

1937

Frost, Charles R.,

pension increased ..

1927

Frost, John W.,

pension increased ..

2528

Fruit Farms,

special provisions for entries for, under

reclamation act ..

519

Fruita Forest Reserve, Colo ., proclamation establishing..
Fuchau, China, classification and salary of consul .........
Fuchs, Sebastian, pension increased .

3191 99
2524

Fuel Hucksters, D. C.,

Page.

not required to pay additional tax for stor-

ing, etc...

13

Fuel, Lights, and Water, Public Buildings,

appropriation for....

707, 1314

deficiency appropriation for.

45

Fuel Substances,

appropriation for testing, etc.; collection of materials for examination, etc. 728, 1335

Fugitives from Justice,

convention for surrender of, with Great

Britain, crimes added..

2903

with Japan, crimes added..

2951

treaty for surrender of, with Denmark, ex-

tended to island possessions, etc ... 2898

with Haiti.......

2858

with Norway, modified as to accessories. 2865

with Panama..

2851

Fuhrman, John L.,

pension increased .

2045

Fulgham, Oscar,

reimbursement to....

2702

Fulk, William R. ,

pension....

2289

Fuller, Alden,

pension increased .

1846

Fuller, Alonzo W.,

pension increased .

2694

Fuller, Daniel,

pension increased

2544

Fuller, Henry A., pension increased .
Fuller, Joseph, pension increased .

2766 2119

Fuller, Oscar A.,

pension increased .

2763

Fuller, Sarah Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased..

2587

Fulmer, Harvey J.,

pension increased .

1669

Fulton, Charles W.,

pension increased .

1578

Fulton, Robert L.,

pension increased .

2197

Funchal, Madeira,

classification and salary of consul .

100

Furey, Thomas,

pension increased..

1784

Furlong, William,

pension increased .

1485

Furman, Jesse M., pension increased ..
Furniture, Public Buildings, appropriation for, and repairs . deficiency appropriation for.
Fyffe, Willa (widow ), pension increased..

1650
707, 1314 28, 45
2496

G.

Gadsden, Ala.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

778

appropriation for..

792, 1298

Gaffney, Patrick,

pension increased ..

2136

Gafford, John,

payment to assignee of.......

2701

Gage, Marshall U.,

pension increased..

1724

Gage, Theodoric,

pension increased ..

2789

Gahan, John W.,

pension increased ..

2497

Gain, Lucinda widow),

pension increased ...

1801

INDEX.

3409

Gainesville, Fla. ,

Page.

limit of cost increased, public building... 773

appropriation for..

1298

Gainesville, Ga. ,

construction of public building authorized

at .

776

appropriation for .

791, 1298

Game Birds and Animals, D. C. -Cont'd . waterfowl hunting, etc. , restricted to boats with oars; penalty. marsh hunting restricted .
Game, Charlotte (widow), pension increased....
Game Preserves,

Page.
809 809
2510

Gainesville, Tex.,
enlargement of public building at, authorized ..
appropriation for . Gainsback, John,
pension.. Galbraith, Cate F. (widow),,
pension increased.. Galbraith, Sarah F. (widow),
pension increased .... Galcatcher, Betsy, Indian Allottee,
alienation restrictions removed . Gallatin County, Mont.,
bridge authorized across Missouri River, Broadwater and ..

775 790 1471 1751 1739 345
456

killing, etc. , birds or taking eggs on, for-

bidden; penalty..

536

proclamation declaring Grand Canyon For-

est Reserve, Ariz. , as a ..

3263

Wichita Forest Reserve, Okla., as a..... 3062

Gangwer, Stephen,

pension increased..

2474

Gannon, James, pension increased ..

1821:

Garbage, D. C.,
appropriation for removing...
deficiency appropriation for removing Garden City Forest Reserve, Kans.,
proclamation establishing... Garden Produce Farms,

495, 1132 119
3131

Gallatin Forest Reserve, Mont., proclamation adding lands to.
Galligan, Edward W., pension increased .

special provisions for entries for, under

3193

reclamation act...

519

Gardener, George,

2426 pension increased .

2138

Gallinas Forest Reserve, N. Mex.,
proclamation establishing.. Gallion, William R.,
pension increased.

Gardiners Bay, N. Y.,

3243 preliminary examination to be made of

channel between Three Mile River

1923

and ...

1115

Gallipolis, Ohio,

Gardner, Anna M. (widow),

inspector of hulls and boilers for, abolished 106 pension increased ..

1465

Galloway, Sarah A. (widow),

Gardner, Asa A.,

pension increased..

2386 pension increased .

2664

Galloway, Virginia C. (widow),

Gardner, Henry G.,

pension increased .

2801 pension increased .

1580

Gallt , James (father),

Gardner, James H.,

pension..

1596 pension increased .

1326

Galveston Ship Channel, Tex.,

Gardner, James M. ,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

pension increased .

2786

tracts..

738, 1092 Gardner, Orrin A. A. ,

Galveston, Tex.,

pension increased .

2075

appropriation for improvement of harbor ;

Gardner, Robert D. ,

contracts ....

738, 1090 pension increased..

2105

channel ; restriction . channel to Texas City .

1090 Garfield Hospital, D. C., 1091 appropriation for isolating wards, minor

for customs boarding boat

1011

contagious cases..........

506, 1146

for building, etc. , for immigrant station

for maintenance..

745

at .

1412

for support of destitute patients ..

1351

foreign-built dredges used at, to be docu-

for renewal of plumbing..

1351

mented ...

204 deficiency appropriation for isolating

Gamble, Harvey, pension increased .

ward .. 2144 Garland, Darius E. ,

642, 1379

Gamble, James L.,

pension increased .

2395

pension increased ..

2194 Garland, Joseph P. ,

Game,

pension increased ..

2226

appropriation for preventing shipment of

Garland, Rebecca (mother),

illegally killed ...

689, 1274 pension increased :.

1468

Game and Fish Laws, D. C. ,

* Garnsey, Francis D., pension increased .

2217

appropriation for enforcing..

489, 1126 Garrett, Elias W.,

Game Animals,

pension increased.

2720

breeding place for, in Grand Canyon Forest

Garrett, William S.,

Reserve...

607 pension increased .

1933

Game Birds and Animals, D. C.,

Garrison, Silas.

killing, etc. , of wild birds prohibited ;

pension increased ....

penalty... English sparrows excepted..

808 Garrison, William H., 808 pension increased ..

permits to shoot crows, etc. , destroying

Garritt, James M.,

crops or poultry..

808 pension increased ..

hunting, etc., without permit, squirrels,
rabbits, etc., prohibited : penalty.. special permit to shoot English sparrows ,

808 Garst, Samuel S., pension increased .

1

etc.; penalty ...

809 Garvey, Alice (widow),

firearms regulations, additional, authorized . 809 pension...

2599 2606 1659 1875 2009

3410

INDEX .

Garvey, Dominick, pension increased .

Page. 2580

Garvey, Patrick,

pension increased .

1454

Garvie, James, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .......

357

Gary, Ind. ,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made .

1113

Gas Companies, D. C.,

detailed annual reports required from .... 1133

Gas Lands, Osage Indian Reservation, Okla.,

provisions for leasing, royalties , etc .........

543

Gas- Motor Vessels,

steamboat inspections for ......

194

Gasconade County, Mo.,

may bridge Gasconade River, Fredericks-

burg..

388

Gasconade River, Mo.,

appropriation for improvement of..................

1105

bridge authorized across, Fredericksburg.. 388 preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1114

Gaskey, Andrew J.,

pension increased ..

2297

Gaskill, Eugene,

pension increased

1641

Gaskill, George H.,

pension increased ..

1860

Gaskill, Harvey,

pension increased .

1439

Gaskin, William H., deficiency appropriation for extra services . 43

Gasoline, etc., Oils, D. C.,

license tax to store and sell..................

13

Gasolinefor Motor Boats,

may be carried on vessels not carrying pas-

sengers for hire ...................

204

Gaspe, Quebec,

classification and salary of consul ......

100

Gates, Jonathan F.,

pension increased

1633

Gates, Levi,

pension increased .

2292

Gates, Theodore W. , pension increased .

2670

Gatewood, Elison,

pension increased..

2510

Gaudineer, Frederick P.,

pension increased..

2655

Gaunt, Mary Ann (widow),

pension increased...

1614

Gaus, Michael,

pension increased ..

2516

Gause, Elmira M. (widow),

pension increased .

2100

Gautier, William H. ,

pension increased ..

2029

Gay, Joel,

pension increased....

2194

Gaylord, George,

pension increased ..

1690

Gaylord, Lucy A. (widow),

pension.

2581

Gaynor, William,

pension increased .

1750

Gearey, George W.,

pension increased ..

1490

Gearkee, Alice (widow), pension increased .
Geary, Michael J. pension increased .

1588 * 2739

Geduldig, Henry A.,

pension increased .

2346

Gee, Francis,

pension increased .

1449

Gee, Nancy Ann ( widow), pension..
Geiger, Jacob A., pension increased .

Page. 1987
1511

Gein, Louis H., pension increased .
Gemmill, John, pension increased .
General Act, International, for reforms in Morocco.

2156 1786 2905

General Appraisers, Board of, solicitor of customs and assistants to appear

before; duties, etc ....

763

General Grant National Park, Cal.,

appropriation for management, etc .... 729, 1337

General Land Office (see also Public Lands),.

appropriation for Commissioner, assistant,

clerks, etc...

429, 975

for temporary force, San Francisco

earthquake....

429

for investigations , etc ..

430, 975

for maps; distribution ..

430, 975

for mine inspectors ...

430, 975

for transcripts from plats and records . 724, 1333

for rent, supplies, etc. , San Francisco ,

earthquake..

434

for reproducing records , etc. , San Fran-

cisco earthquake..

1336

deficiency appropriation for reproducing

plats, etc...

653

for surveying..

653

General Land Office, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc .. 429, 975 to sell isolated tracts of land at auction .... 517 "General Levi Harris, " Schooner,

appropriation for paying owner, loss of

yawl ..

1291

General Service and Staff College, Fort

Leavenworth, Kans.,

appropriation for instruction expenses .. 240, 1158

General Staff Corps, Army,

appropriation for contingent expenses,

military information.........

240, 1158

for translator, etc. , military information

division.

246, 1163

Geneseo Place NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands, for extend-

ing; name changed to Summit

place...

846

appropriation for..

846

Geneva Convention, 1864, Conference for Re-

vision of,

deficiency appropriation for delegates .... 118

Geneva, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building ......

698

Geneva, Switzerland,

classification and salary of consul .....

99

Genoa, Italy,

classification and salary of consul.

99

appropriation for clerk hire.....

294, 924

Genoa, Nebr.,

appropriation for Indian school........ 355, 1039

Gentles, Henry, alias Henry Hopner,

pension increased ...

1999

Geodetic Association for Measurement of the

Earth, International,

appropriation for annual quota.. for expenses of delegate to..

291 , 921 715, 1322

Geological Survey,

appropriation for Director, clerks, etc .. for scientific assistants
assignments of pay permitted . reimbursement for expenses .
for general expenses..... for skilled laborers, etc.......

726, 1334 727, 1335
727 727 727, 1335 727, 1335

INDEX.

3411

Geological Survey-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for topographical surveys . 727, 1336

for geological surveys...

727, 1336

for paleontologic researches..

727, 1336

for investigating mineral resources of

Alaska .

1336

for chemical and physical researches . 727, 1336

for preparing illustrations ..

727, 1336

for report on mineral resources....... 727, 1336

for books, etc ....

727, 1336

for geological maps ..

727, 1336

furnishing transfers, etc. , of data ;

charges..

727

for gauging water supply.

728, 1335

for investigating structural materials . 728, 1335

for testing, etc., fuels; collection of mate-

rials ...

728, 1335

for survey of forest reserves .. for additional storage room, etc

7281, 1336 728

for additional rent...

1336

books, etc., for reclamation service

1336

for International Seismological Associa-

tion ....

728

for reclamation service, rent, etc ..

728

allowance to disbursing officer for rent...

729 434, 979

for engraving illustrations .

760, 1367

for printing and binding..

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for..

47, 667, 669

for investigating black sands ; rent ...

37

for investigating Alaska mineral re-

sources .

37

for geological maps..

47, 1402

for surveying forest reserves . for James W. Spencer..

47, 667, 1402 654

printing ordered of fourth annual report of

Reclamation Service ..

836

George, John,

pension increased .

2794

George, Lewis S.,

pension increased ..

1942

George, Reuben A. ,

return from President requested of bill to

pension

2838

George Washington University Hospital, D. C. , appropriation for care of indigent patients . 511. 1151

George, Zachariah, pension increased ...
Georgetown, British Guiana, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire ...

1800
99 294, 924

Georgetown University Hospital, D. C., appropriation for care of indigent patients . 511,

1151 Georgia, Florida and Alabama Railway Com-

pany,

may bridge Chattahoochee River between

Columbus and Franklin...

324

may build three bridges across Chatta-

hoochee River, Eufaula, Ala. , to

Columbus, Ga.....

325

Georgia Southern Judicial District,

southwestern division abolished , and Al-

bany created ..

547

counties assigned ...

547

Georgia, Southwestern and GulfHailroad Com-

pany,

may bridge Chattahoochee River at Steam-

mill, Ga ....

931

Gerard, John B. ,

pension increased ..

1883

Gerhardt, Sebastian,

pension increased..

2761

German-American Alliance, D. C. , The Na- Page.

tional,

incorporated; scope,..ights, etc ..

928

German Baptist Brethren Church, D. C. ,

taxes refunded ..

869

German Emperor,

acceptance of decoration by, to Prof. Simon

Newcomb, permitted

1713

German Orphan Asylum, D. C.,

appropriation for care, etc. , of children in;

contract...

.. 512, 1153

Germantown, Pa. , Site and Rel66ic Society, bell of late sloop of war Germantown"

presented to...

828

"Germantown , " Sloop of War,

bell of, presented to Germantown , Pa. ,

Site and Relic Society .....

828

Germany, appropriation for ambassador.to....
for secretary of embassy.. for second secretary.. for third secretary..

286, 916. 287, 917 287, 917 287, 918

deficiency appropriation for Samoan claims 635

reciprocal commercial arrangement with.. 3192

Gersteneker, Jacob W.,

pension increased ..

1963

Gerth, Susie M. (widow),

pension..

1971

Getter, Jacob B.,

pension increased ..

2737

Gettysburg National Cemetery, Pa. , appropriation for superintendent's lodge .. 741

Gettysburg National Park, Pa . , appropriation for establishing....

744, 1350

Ghent, Belgium, classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Ghrist, Sarah L. (widow), pension increased ....

2062

Gibbon, Ellen A. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

-1854

Gibbons, John,

pension increased .

1588

Gibbs, Delia (mother),
pension. Gibbs, Richard J.,
pension increased . Gibraltar, Spain,
classification and salary of consul .............

2167 2729
100

Gibson, Appleton,

pension increased ..

1611

Gibson, George,

pension increased .

1603

Gibson, George C. ,

pension increased ..

2686

Gibson, Louisa C. (widow),

pension increased ..

2106

Gibson, Milo G.,

pension increased .

1720

Gibson, Timothy II.,

pension increased.

2799

Gibson, William,

pension increased ..

1976

Giffen, John,

pension increased....

2121

Gifford, Ellen S. (widow), pension....

2336

Gifford, Lestina M. (widow), pension increased..
Gila Forest Reserve, N. Mex. (see also Gila River Forest Reserve , N. Mex. ) ,
proclamation changing name of Gila River Forest Reserve to, and extending area

1829 3123

3412

INDEX.

Gila River Forest Reserve, N. Mex. (see also Gila Forest Reserve, N. Mex.) ,
proclamation changing name to Gila Forest Reserve, and extending area....
proclamation establishing . Gila River Indian Reservation , Ariz. ,
appropriation for constructing irrigating system for
Gilbert, John M., pension increased .
Gilbert, Leander, pension increased .
Gilbert, William H., pension increased .
Gilborne, Davis, pension increased .
Gilbrech, Jacob, pension increased .
Gildersleeve, William H., pension increased..
Gilham , Henry, pension increased .
Gilkeson, Hansford G. ,
pension.. Gillam, Burrell H.,
pension increased .
Gillam, Daniel W., pension increased ..
Gillem, Mary J. (widow), pension increased ...
Gillen, Stephen, pension increased .
Gillespie, Edward, pension increased .
Gillespie, William O., pension increased.
Gillette, George D.,
payment to. Gilley, Alice E. (widow),
pension. Gilliland, John M.,
pension increased .
Gillispie, John E. , alias John G. Elliott, pension increased .
Gilman, Lemuel O., pension increased
Gilmore, Caroline A. (widow),
pension... Gilmore, Kate (widow),
pension increased . Gilmore, Isaac B.,
pension increased .
Gilpatrick, Thomas W., pension increased .
Gilrain, Michael F., pension increased .
Gilson, George W., pension increased .
Gilsonite, etc., Deposits, lands in Uncompagre Reservation , Utah, containing, to be sold ........
Ginther, John, pension increased .
Gipson, William A., pension increased.
Girdler, Joseph, pension increased .
Girdler, William, pension increased .
Girvan, William J., pension increased . 7.
Glasgow Land District, Mont., established ; boundaries ; office ....
Glasgow, Mo.,
bridge authorized across Missouri River, at.

Page. | Glasgow , Scotland, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire ..

Page . 99
294, 924

3123 Glaspie, Andrew P. ,

3126 pension increased ..

2213

Glauchau, Germany,

classification and salary of consul. .... .........

100

333 Glavis, Loucette E. (widow),

pension increased..

1589

2550 Glazner, Sion B., pension increased ..
2105 Glenwood Forest Reserve, Utah,
proclamation establishing...

1618 3275 ,

1969 Glisan, William R. ,

pension increased ..

1467

2724 Gloucester, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 736

2800 preliminary examination of harbor to be

made..

1114

1720 Gloversville, N. Y. ,

limit of cost increased , public building ... 773

1763

appropriation for ....

789

Goats,

2428 provisions for inspection, etc. , of carcasses,

and products in interstate and for-

2756

eign commerce.

674, 1260

Goble, Mary M. (widow),

2476 pension increased..

2399

Godfrey, Florence H. (widow);

2372 pension.

2133

Godwin, William T.,

1462 pension increased.

1820

Goebel, Christian H., 1938 pension increased .
Goebel, Valentine, 1684 pension increased .
Goetz, H. Edward, 2661 pension...

1920 .. 2646
1774

Gogin, Richard,

1496 pension increased ..

2810

Gold and Silver Articles,

2712 transporting, etc. , with fineness falsely

marked, unlawful ...

260

2362 gold ; deviation in marked fineness al-

lowed ...

260

1761

watch cases, etc.

260

tests; actual fineness required .

260

2711 silver; deviation in marked fineness al-

lowed .

261

1853

requirements for "sterling" and " coin'

goods..

261

2762

tests; actual fineness required..

261

plated ware ; marking required for gold

2704

goods..

261

use of " sterling" or "coin" prohibited

2779

on silver..

262

punishment for violations.

262

1949 signification of articles of merchandise'

262

original packages not exempt ..

262

in effect in one year.

262

3214 Gold Certificates,

issue suspended when reserve fund falls

2084

below $50,000,000 .

202

may be issued in denominations of ten dol-

1834

lars ...

1289

coin to be held for payment..

1289

1729 receivable for all dues, etc

1289

issue suspended when coin and bullion in

2513

reserve fund for notes falls below

$ 100,000,000 . .

1289

2240

may be suspended when notes and silver

certificates in Treasury exceed

929

$60,000,000 .

1289

one-fourth to be fifty dollars or le

1289

818 issue of $10,000 certificates.

1289

INDEX .

3413

532

Gold Coin,

Page.

appropriation for recoining..

706, 1313

deficiency appropriation for recoining..

28

issue of certificates suspended when reserve

fund falls below $50,000,000 ...

202

below $100,000,000 .

1289

coinage of bullion in reserve fund in

excess of $50,000,000 ..

202

notes and silver certificates in Treasury

exceed $60,000,000 ....

1289

Golder, Henry,

pension increased..

1836

Goldfogle, Hon. Henry M.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses

661

Goll, Helen (widow),

pension...

2468

Gonzaga College (Saint Aloysius Church) , D. C.

taxes refunded ..

869

Gonzales, Tex.,

construction of public building authorized

at; nominal site ....

778

appropriation for ..

792, 1298

Good, Christian M.,

pension increased .

2350

Good Conduct Commutation, United States

Prisoners,

extended to existing sentences .

149

Good Hawk, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

357

Good, Henry,

pension increased ..

1871

Good, Mary A. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1926

Goode, Joseph J.,

pension increased .

2085

Goodell, Edwin R. , pension increased .
Goodell, Hiram M., pension increased .
Goodier, John R., pension increased

.... 1527
1966 2500

Gooding, John,

pension increased .

2785

Goodland Indian Orphan Industrial School,

Old

lands of Choctaws set aside tor ........

341

Goodlander, Henry,

pension increased .

2560

Goodrich, Samuel B. T.,

pension increased..

2688

Goodsell, Jerome,

pension increased ..

1682

Goodteacher, George, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

357

Goodwin, E. C. ,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 43

Goodwin, Emma E. (widow),

pension increased .

2172

Goose Creek, S. C., dam authorized across , in Berkeley County
Goose Lake Forest Reserve, Oreg.. proclamation establishing .
Gootee, Thomas N., pension increased .

265 3226 2638

Gordon, Ephraim A.,

pension increased ..

1453

Gordon, George H. , alias Gorton,

pension increased..

2086

Gordon, George W.,

pension increased .

2197

Gordon , Isaac,

pension increased ...

2350

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--52

Gordon, Ironsides and Fares Company (Limited),
duties refunded
Gordon, John Ard, pension increased
Gordon, Larvan,
homestead entry confirmed ......
Gorton, Elizabeth (widow), pension increased .
Goree-Dakar, Africa,
classification and salary of consul . Gorman, Arthur Pue , late a Senator,
deficiency appropriation for wido Gothenburg, Sweden,
classification and salary of consul ........ Gough, John F.,
pension increased ..
Gould, Abbie B. (widow), pension increased ..

Pagc. 2815 2225 2817 1792
100 661 100 2779 1784

Gould, Elijah G.,

pension increased ..

2100

Government Exhibit, Jamestown Exposition,

preparation, installation , etc. , of..

764

appropriation for all expenses..

764

for buildings; construction , etc..

765

Government Hospitalfor Insane, D. C.,

appropriation for support of indigent in-

sane .

512, 1153

for current expenses...

730, 1338

for buildings and grounds . for assembly hall ..

730, 1338 1338

for plans, etc., for assembly hall

730

deficiency appropriation for printing; reim-

bursement..

37

for fire protection .

37

disposition of moneys belonging to deceased

inmates .

730

sale of intoxicating liquors near, prohib-

ited ..

870

Government Printing Office (see Public Print-

ing and Binding), appropriation for leaves of absence ... 761, 1368

deficiency appropriation for leaves to em-

ployees...

120, 1398

transfer of appropriations for leaves of ab-

sence ...

44, 1398

Governors Island, N. Y., appropriation for enlargement, etc........ 1349

Governors of States and Territories, invited to send militia to Jamestown cele-

bration .

3205

Gowanus Bay, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of chan-

nel ...

736, 1344

Gowdy, William H.,

release of sureties on bond of..

2813

appropriation for payment to .

2813

Grabill, Ira,

pension increased .....

1733

Grade Crossings, D. C., Elimination of (see

also Union Station , D. C. ) ,

appropriation for damages, etc., union rail-

road station , etc ..

490, 1126

for improvement of plaza ; limit, etc.... 1127

ascertainment of damages, on line of Phila-

delphia, Baltimore and Washington

Railroad; payment......

624

Graffam, William T. , alias William Rivers,

pension increased .

2672

Grafton, W. Va. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for .

796

3414

INDEX.

Graham, Anderson, pension increased .

Page. 2518

Graham, Arthur, pension increased ..

.2642

Graham, Benjamin F.,

granted honorable discharge ....

2064

Graham, Ellen R. (widow),

pension increased ..

1478

Graham, Jacob A. ,

pension increased .

2399

Graham, James,

pension increased .

1533

Grahams Island, N. Dak.,

restored to public domain ...

360

subject to allotment to Turtle Mountain

Band of Chippewas...

361

Grain and Seed,

appropriation for inspection and grading of,

for export, etc ..

681, 1267

Grain Elevators, etc.,

testimony, investigation of, ordered

printed

2837

Gramberg, Mary (widow),

pension increased ..

2354

Grand Army of the Republic, D. C.,

punishment for unauthorized wearing in-

signia of...

62

Grand Army Soldiers and Sailors' Home, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses....

512, 1153

Grand Calumet River,

bridge authorized across, in Illinois..

1234

Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, Ariz. , · game preserve to be set apart in .. proclamation adding lands to..

607 3009

hunting, etc., animals in, unlawful ; punishment for violations..
proclamation modifying area. declaring, a game preserve..
Grand Detour, Ill., construction ofdam authorized across Rock River near

607 3223 3263
14

Grand Forks, N. Dak , terms of court at ..

609, 610

Grand Haven, Mich

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. Grand Island Harbor, Lake Superior,
range lights established at; light station to be discontinued ..
appropriation for ..

1097
996 1319

Grand Island, Nebr.,

construction of public building authorized . 777

appropriation for.

791, 1298

terms of court at.......

998

Grand Junction, Colo. ,.

appropriation for Indian school ....... 334, 1023 deficiency appropriation for Indian school . 38
Grand Lake, La.,

appropriation for lighting channel...... 713, 1320

Grand Lodge Independent Order of Odd Fellows, D. C.,

may sell Odd Fellows Hall.

614

authorized to purchase and hold property:

limit..

614

Grand Marais, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor of

refuge..

1096

Grand Marais, Minn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1101

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made .

1114

Grand Rapids, Mich.,

public building to be disposed of, and new

one erected on site; cost..

785

appropriation for:.

796, 1298

rent ...

1298

Grand River, La.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of......... 1089 Grand River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1097

Grandaw, William H.,

pension increased..

2727

Grande Ronde Agency, Oreg.,.

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

at..

... 369, 1045

Grande Ronde Indian Rerervation, Oreg.,

appropriation for purchase of lands for

John Smith andJane Isaac, allottees . 1045

Grandy, Melvin,

pension increased .

1931

Granniss, Mary W. (widow),

pension...

2690

Grant, Fanny M. (widow) ,

pension...

2746

Grant, Fannie S. (daughter),

pension...

2723

Grant, John J.,

pension increased ..

1513

Grant, Julia P. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2363

Grant, Lewis A.,

pension increased .

2440

Grant Memorial, D, C.,

appropriation for erection of; site, etc..... 735

Grant, William ,

pension increased ..

2706

Grass, Harman,

pension increased .

2721

Grasses, etc.,

test of seeds, etc. , Canada bluegrass... 681 , 1267

Graves ofConfederate Soldiers and Sailors,

appropriation for marking graves, etc., of, who died in northern prisons and

hospitals..

56

Graves, Sewell F.,

pension increased .

1973

Gray, Charles P.,

pension increased .

2252

Gray Cloud, Arthur, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

373

Gray, Frank N.,

pension increased .

1694

Gray, George,

reappointed on Board of Regents, Smith-

sonian Institution ...

1419

Gray Horse, Okla.,

lands, buildings, etc. , reserved for benefit

of Osages; sales ..

542

Gray, James, pension increased..
Gray, Marcena C. S., pension increased .
Gray, Washington D., pension increased .

2003 2463 2432

Gray, William E.,

pension increased .

2478

Gray, William S.,

pension increased .

2421

Grays Harbor, Wash. ,

appropriation for improvement of, and bar entrance ; contracts ...
inner portion... preliminary examination to be made for
ship canal to Puget Sound.. ...

1108 1108
1118

Grays River, Wash., appropriation for improvement of............. . 1108

Grayson, James D. ,

pension increased..

2530

Grayson, Joel, appropriation for...

395, 941

INDEX.

3415

Grayson, John T., pension increased..
Great Britain, appropriation for ambassador to ..

Page. 2771
286, 916

for secretary of embassy.. for second secretary....

287, 917 287, 917

for third secretary . for clerks at embassy.

287, 918 289, 919

for reports, etc. , Joint High Commission

on Canadian questions..

292

for marking Alaska and Canada boundary

under treaties, etc ..

292, 922

for marking boundary under treaty of

1842 with...

292, 923

for joint commission on use of Saint John

River..

292

convention with, for marking boundary

between Alaska and British posses-

sions ......

2948

extradition convention with , crimes added . 2903

negotiations with, requested to preserve

Niagara Falls, etc ..

628

treaty with, surrendering extra-territorial

rights in Zanzibar

2870

Great Council of the United States Improved

Order ofRed Men, D. C. ,

incorporated ; powers, etc..

117

Great Diamond Island, Me.,

preliminary examination to be made of

passage between Peaks Island and .. 1113 Great Falls, Mont. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for .

793, 1298

Great Kanawha River,
appropriation for lighting. Great Lakes,

713, 1320

appropriation for lighting channels of.. 713, 1321

diversion of waters of, may be fixed by

Congress...

626

Great Lakes Naval Training Station,

appropriation for maintenance.

556, 1178

for buildings..

567, 1189

preparation, etc. , of plans: architects,

etc ..

567

Great Nemaha Agency Indians, Kans.,

share of minors, etc. , in trust funds may be

paid to guardians......

356

Great Pedee River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..... 1084, 1344

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

Great Salt Pond, Block Island, R. I., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1075

Great Sodus Bay, N..Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1078

Great South Bay, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1077 Greece and Montenegro,

appropriation for minister to..

287, 917

for secretary of legatión ....

287, 917

Greeley, Almond,

pension increased ....

2151

Green Bay, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1101

for public building.......

1298

limit of cost increased , public building... 774

Green, Charles,

pension increased ....

2399

Green, Ella B. (widow),

pension increased ..

2278

Green, Galen E. ,

granted honorable discharge ..

2412

Green, George K.,

pension increased .

2114

Green, George S., pension increased .

Page. 2189

Green, George W.,

pension increased .

2575

Green, Hannah W. (widow),

pension..

1470

Green, Hugh,

pension increased..

1725

Green Jacket Shoal, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 739 , 1345

Green, John,

pension increased .

1811

Green, Joseph E.,

pension..

1868

Green, Louis,

pension increased .

2646

Green, Nathaniel,

pension increased .

2426

Green, Peter,

granted honorable discharge...

2414

Green, Philo,

pension increased.

2056

Green, Thomas J.,

pension increased

2649

Green, Walter,

pension increased.

1837

Green , William H.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment ..

653

Greenawalt, Ephraim,

payment to...

2406

Greencastle, Ind.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ...

782

appropriation for..

794

Greene, Catharine A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2631

Greene, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

1468

Greene, Walter D.,

pension increased..

2438

Greeneville, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement, etc. , na-

tional cemetery..

1348

terms of court..

298

Greenlee, Samuel,

pension increased :.

1722

Greenhill, R. I.,

life-saving station established at.....

298

Greensburg, Pa. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

784

appropriation for..

795

Greenville, Miss.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

779

appropriation for.

793, 1298

Greenville, Ohio,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for..

793, 1298

Greenville, S. C.,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized..

776

appropriation for.

791, 1298

appropriation for acquiring site and erect-

ing public building at.

793

terms of court at.

1002

Greenville, Tex.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

781

appropriation for..

794, 1299

3416

INDEX.

Greenwich, Conn.,

Page:

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1076

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

782

appropriation for..

794

Greenwood, S. C.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for ..

193, 1299

Greer, Benjamin F.,

pension increased .

1904

Gregy, G. Annie (widow),

pension increased ..

2118

Gregg, Louisa,

pension

1967

Gregg, Playford,

pension increased ..

1774

Gregg Shoals, Savannah River,

dam authorized at..

876

Gregory, Eleanor (widow),

pension increased ...

1992

Gregory, Horace A. ,

pension increased .

1858

Gregory, John,

pension increased ..........

2546

Grell, Jacob,

pension increased.......

2681

Grenoble, France,

classification and salary of consul.............

100

Gresham, William,

appropriation for value of dory.

1291

Grier, Josiah M.,

pension increased ...

1572

Griesc, Wilhelm,

pension increased .

2192

Griffeth, Milton A., pension increased ..

2058

Griffin, Ga.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ...

782

appropriation for.

794

Griffin, George N.,

pension increased .

2373

Griffin, James H.,

pension increased .

1802

Griffin, Oliver II.,

pension

2336

Griffin, Robert Henderson,

pension increased .

1761

Griffith, David D.,

pension increased .

1631

Griffith, Peleg T.,

granted honorable discharge .

Griffith, Thomas,

1

pension increased ..

Griffith, Thomas M., pension increased.

Griffith, William F., pension increased.

Grimm, John, pension increased ..

2214 1743 2536 1872 2493

Grimsley, Amelia E. (widow),

pension increased .

1880

Grissom, Joseph C., pension increased .
Griswold, Isaac L., pension increased .
Griswold, Lester M. P., pension increased .
Gritts, Levi B., William Brown and, may bring suit in Court of Claims for Chero-

1708 2653 2714

kees, to determine validity of laws

restricting alienation , etc ..

1028

Grizzle, James,

pension increased ..

1766

Groezinger, Gotlob,

Page.

refund oftaxes to administrator of........ 2309

Groff, Marcelina S. (widow),

pension...

1650

Grogan, Harriet E. , formerly Preston,

pension increased..

1671

Grossman, Louis,

pension...

1801

Grover, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

2280

Groves, Andrew II.,

pension increased .

2578

Grow, William J.,

pension increased

1501

Guadalupe River, Ter.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts .

1091

Guadeloupe, West Indies, classification and salary of consul ................... 100
Guam ,

appropriation for public works, naval sta-

tion....

566, 1188

for buildings for lepers, etc...

1189

acknowledgment of deeds etc. , affecting

lands in District of Columbia or Ter-

ritories

552

head tax, provisions as to aliens in.

898

passenger list of vessels to United States

from, to be given immigration offi-

cer of port on arriving....

902

transportation permitted on transports to.. 1171

Guantanamo, Cuba,

appropriation for light-house service, naval

station ...

713

for marine barracks.

1191

for hospital for laborers..

1192

Guardians, D. C.,

jurisdiction ofjuvenile court over, neglect-

ing, etc., children ....

74

Guatemala,

appropriation for minister to..

916

for secretary of legation...

917

Guatemala and Honduras,

appropriation for minister to..

286

for secretary of legation...

287

Guatemala, Guatemala. classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

Guayaquil, Ecuador,

classification and salary of consul -general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

Gude, Alfred,

pension increased..

2106

Gude, Henry,

military record corrected ....

2063

Guile, Charles H.,

pension increased ..

2178

Guilroy, Margaret (widow),

pension ..

2483

Guiney, Jeannette M. (widow),

pension increased .

2503

Guion, William R.,

pension increased .

1747

Guiott, Joseph,

pension increased..

2059

Guitar, Henry, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .....

356

Gulfof Mexico,

appropriation for surveys of coasts ...... 714 , 1321

landing, etc. , sponges taken from, by div-

ing, prohibited ; exception..

313

GulfQuarantine Station , Ship Island, Miss.,

appropriation for reconstructing , etc ...... 1307

Gulfport, Miss. ,

appropriation for improvement of anchor-

age basin, etc ..

1088

INDEX.

3417

Gulfport, Miss . --Continued .

Page.

appropriation for improvement of channel

to Ship Island Harbor..

1344

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

779

appropriation for..

793, 1299

payment for dredging channel and anchor-

age basin, Mississippi Sound be-

tween Ship Island Harbor and ..... 833 Gull Lake, Minn.,

appropriation for low reservoir dam , head-

waters of the Mississippi River ..... 1105

Gunderson, Ole,

pension increased ..

2727

Gunnery Exercises, Navy,

appropriation for prizes, targets, etc ... 556, 1178

deficiency appropriation for...

1385, 1402

Gunnison Forest Reserve, Colo ..

proclamation establishing .

3025

Guns, Automatic, etc.,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc ..

463, 1059

Gunselman, Valentine, pension increased .

.... 1904

Gunton- Temple Memorial Presbyterian Church,

D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

869

Gurley Memorial Presbyterian Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

870

Gurnee, Jonas,

pension increased ..

2460

Gurney, Ruth B. (widow),

pension increased .......

1482

Gustus, John,

pension increased .

2493

Guthrie, Christopher S.,

pension increased .

2073

Guthrie, David B.,

pension increased..

2060

Guthrie, Margaret E. (widow),

pension increased ....

2417

Guthrie, Okla.,

to be capital of State until 1913 .

269

terins of court .

275

Guy, Henry, pension increased ...
·Guyandot River, W. Va.,

.1692

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1118

Guin, Isum,

pension increased ....

2165

II.

Haack, John,

pension increased .

1685

Haas, Frank P. ,

pension...

1479

Habana, Cuba,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire..

293, 923

Hackett, James B.,

pension increased ..

2691

Hackley, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1482

Hackney, James F.,

pension increased .

1848

Hackney, William H.,

pension increased .

1919

Hadley, Weymouth,

pension increased!.

2370

Hadsall, John E.,

pension increased,

1538

Haferstein, Gottfried,

pension increased ..

2805

Hagan, Lawrence,

pension increased .

2345

Hagar, Lucas, pension increased .
Hagemiller, Herman, pension increased.
Hager, James W., pension increased .

Page. 1781 2479
2057

Hager, John,

pension increased.

2443

Hagerstown, Md.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ....

779

appropriation for.

792, 1299

Hague Convention, The,

appropriation for expenses, court of arbi-

tration created by..

291 , 921

Hague Peace Conference, Second International,

appropriation for expenses, participation in 922

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

Commission

118

Hahn, Henry,

pension increased ..

1895

Haight, Allen M.,

pension increased ..

2347

Hailey Land District, Idaho,

proclamation reserving lands for town site

entrics under reclamation act, in ... 3215

Haines, William,

pension increased .

1991

Hains, Benjamin, pension increased .
Hair, David H., pension increased ..
Haire, Arthur, pension increased....
Haiti, appropriation for minister to . extradition treaty with
Halbert, Marion F., pension increased .

2260 2166 1693 287, 917 2858 2155

Halbert, Mary J. (widow),

pension increased ..

2019

Hale, George W.,

pension....

1652

Hale, William,

pension increased .

2680

Iales, James R.,

pension increased .

1788

Haley, Martin,

pension increased ..

2171

Halfiron, John, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Halifax, Nova Scotia,

classification and salary of consul-generai .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.

294, 924

Hall, Anna Frances (widow),

pension increased .

1837

Hall, Edwin S.,

payment to.

2310

Hall, Henry D., pension increased .
Hall, James P., pension increased .
Hall, John B., pension increased .
Hall, John W., pension...

1853 2090 1887 . 1847

Ilall, John W. , Mexican War,

pension increased ..

2525

Hall, Josiah, pension increased .

2234 ,

Hall, Levi M.,

pension increased .

2182

Hall, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2213

3418

INDEX.

Hall, Mary C. (widow), pension increased ..
Hall, Richard B., pension increased..
Hall, Silas P., pension increased .
Hall, William, Illinois Volunteers, pension increased ..
Hall, William, Kentucky Volunteers, pension increased ..
Hall, William M. , pension increased .
Hallenbeck, Cornelius A. , pension increased ..
Haller, Martha J. (widow), pension increased .
Hallett, Margaret (widow), pension increased ..
Hallowell, Martha E. (widow), pension increased..
Ham, Amos, pension increased ..
Ham, John, pension increased .
Ham, Mark, pension increased .
Haman, James H., pension increased .

Page. 2520 2696 1487 2647 2049 1536 1432 2274 1662 1624 2279 2802 2229 1858

Hamburg, Germany, classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire..

293, 924

Hamenstaedt, Henry V.,

pension increased ..

1655

Hamill, Priscilla L. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2668

Hamill, Robert L.,

pension increased ..

2469

Hamilton, Bermuda,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Hamilton, George D. ,

appropriation for, from funds of Chippewas

of the Mississippi ..

351

Hamilton, John, Chaplain,

pension increased ..

1701

Hamilton, John, Kentucky Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2103

Hamilton, Ohio,

construction of public building authorized

at ..

777

appropriation for. Hamilton, Ontario,
classification and salary of consul..

791, 1299 100

Hamilton, Robert,

pension increased ..

2695

Hamilton, Sherrod,

pension increased ..

2274

Hamilton, Thomas,

pension increased .

2583

Hamlen, Alfred M.,

pension increased .

1952

Hammaker, W. S.,

payment to..

2820

Hamman, Philip,

pension increased .

2576

Hamme, Henry,

pension increased ..

2394

Hammes, Mathias,

pension increased .

1945

Hammond, Charles, alias Hiram W. Kirk-

patrick,

pension increased..

1872

Hammond, Frank G.,

pension increased .

2312

Hammond, Ind.,
appropriation for public building .. bridge authorized across Calumet
at... Hammond, Jehial P.,
pension increased . Hammond, John W..

River

Page. 698
877 2134

return from President requested of bill to

pension

2832

Hammond, William,

pension increased..

2086

Hammons , George, and others,

may bridge Kentucky River at Beatty-

ville, Ky..

819

Hammontree, James E.,

pension increased..

2081

Hamner, Theron,

pension increased ..

2432

Hampton Roads, Va. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1082

deficiency appropriation for aid to James-

town Exposition_on...............

886

for dredging channels to piers, James-

town Exposition..

887

anchorage grounds, etc. , to be established

for Jamestown Exposition .....

1383

Hampton, Va.,

appropriation for Indian school ....

376, 1050

for expenses, Volunteer Soldiers' Home;

additions...

747, 1353

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer

Soldiers' Home..

34, 1382

Hamre, Albert J.,

pension increased ..

2531

Hancher, Elizabeth Jane (widow),

pension increased..

2403

Hancock, Josiah C. (son),

pension...

2317

Hancock, Samuel H.,

pension increased .

1845

Hand, John,

pension increased .

2753

Hand, Lemuel,

pension increased .

2201

,Hand, Orlando,

pension increased ..

2048

Hand, William,

pension increased .

2326

Haner, Francis,

pension increased ...

2299

Hanes, Elias,

pension increased .

2071

Haney, James M.,

pension increased .

2786

Hanford, Abbie L. (widow),

pension..

2748

Hanigan, William E.,

pension increased .

2478

Hankau, China,

classification and salary of consul -general.. 99

session of United States court in...

814

Hanlon, Timothy,

pension increased

2587

Hann, James,

pension increased

1755

Hanna, David,

pension increased

1585

Hanna, James P.,

pension increased .

2586

Hanna, Kate E. (widow) ,

pension increased

2339

Hannah, John W. ,

pension increased .

1728

Hannahs, Antoinette (widow) ,

pension increased .

1519

INDEX .

5419

Hanover, Germany, classification and salary of consul.

Page. 100

Hanson, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

1971

Hanson, Nelson,

pension increased .

2356

Hanson, Theodore H.,

pension increased

1637

Hapeman, Ella T, (widow),

pension....

1507

Hapgood, George W. , pension increased

2717

Harbert, Asa K.,

pension increased

2671

Harbin, Manchuria, classification and salary of consul .
Harbison- Walker Company, duties refunded .

99 2811

Harbor and River Front, D. C.,

appropriation for plans, etc. , for improving, 495

deficiency appropriation for..

641

Harbor Beach, Mich.,.

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge...

1097

Harbor Patrol, D. C.,

appropriation for officers and expenses. 504, 1144

Harbors,

appropriation for improvement of rivers

and .

736, 1073, 1344

for searchlights for defense of.

462, 1058

in insular possessions ....

1061

modification of improvement of Milwau-

kee, Wis. , authorized..

819

use for dredging authorized of appropria-

tion for South Haven, Mich..

837

Harbors, Porto Rico,

construction of wharves, etc. , in, author-

ized ; conditions..

234

Hardester, Josephine (widow),

pension increased .

2203

Hardesty, William,

pension increased

2750

Hardie, Emeline H. (widow),

pensión increased ..

2817

Hardin, Davis, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

365

Harding, Eliza J. (widow),

pension increased .

1493

Harding, Samuel J.,

pension increased

1780

Hardy, Edwin R.,

pension increased .

1822

Hardy, Sylvenus,

pension increased ..

1580

Hardy, Victoria, Kansas Indian Allottee,

corrected fee-simple patent to heirs of..

364

Hardy, William ,

pension increased .

1745

Hare, James F.,

pension increased .

1436

Hare, Joseph, jr.

pension increased .

2731

Harelson, Assov,

pension increased .

2302

Hares, Henry,

pension increased .

1902

Hargis, John C. L. ,

pension increased .

2599

Hargrave, Elizabeth P. (widow), pension increased .
Hargrave, John R., pension increased .

2741. 2545

Harlan, Christopher C.,

pension increased ..

1715

Harlan, Samuel W., pension increased .
Harlan, William A. , pension increased .
Harlem River, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of.........
Harman, Michael, pension increased
Harman, Walter S., pension...
Harmon, Decatur, pension increased
Harmon, Eleazer C., pension increased.
Harmon, Lorenzo F.,
return from President requested of bill to pension .
Harmony, Leonard, pension increased
Harper, John, pension..
Harpswell Steamboat Company, payment to.
Harput, Turkey, classification and salary of consul ...........
Harral, Jesse, pension..
Harrelson, Jasper N., persion increased .
Harriman, Ellen (widow),
pension... Harrington, Almus,
pension increased
Harrington, David,
granted honorable discharge. Harrington, Sarah R. (widow),
pension increased
Harris, Andrew J. , pension increased
Harris, George W., pension increased
Harris, Heman A. , pension increased .
Harris, John G., pension increased
Harris, Luther W., pension increased
Harris, Overton E., pension increased
Harris, T. J. H. , payment to..
Harris, Thomas M., pension increased
Harris, William M. , pension increased
Harris, William T., pension increased :
Harrison, Allamanza M. (widow), pension increased .
Harrison, Edson J., pension increased .
Harrison, Gen. William Henry, appropriation for monument at Tippecanoe, Ind ., to, and the American Army ..
Harrison, Jesse, pension increased..
Harrison, John, pension increased.
Harrison, Robert G., pension increased
Harrison, Thomas, pension increased .
Harrison, Thomas J., pension increased

Page. 1980 2402 1078 . 2640 2242 1719 2038
28.8 1495 1654 2658 100 2482 1899 1718 2211 2467 2468. 2710 2298 2176 1609 2633 2746 2407 2132 2475 1685 2103 1721
1410 1569 1977 . 1840 2341 2675

3420

INDEX.

Harrisonburg, Va. , terms of court at .

Page. 547

Harrop, Thomas,

pension increased

2712

Harroun, Susan (widow) ,

pension increased

2543

Harsh, Joseph W.,

pension increased .

1991

Hart, Amos,

pension increased .

1761

Hart, Edward,

pension increased

2125

Hart, James S.,

pension increased .

2513

Hart, John K. ,

pension increased .

2187

Hart, M. N., payment to.
Harte, Daniel J., pension increased .

2661 2364.

Hartenstein, Herman L.,, may dam Saint Joseph River near Mottville, Mich....
Harter, Martin, pension' increased .
Hartford, Conn., deficiency appropriation for public building..
Hartley, Samuel, pension increased

1254 1758 1375 2160

Hartman, Jacob,

pension increased

2482

Hartshorn, Dana W. ,

pension increased .

2257

Hartshorne, Alice B. ( widow) ,

pension increased

1772

Hartwell, Lorenzo D.,

pension increased .

1916

Hartzel, James,

pension increased

1475

Hartzell, Judd O.,

payment to ..

2151

Harvard Street NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands for extending

to Sixteenth street ..

856

appropriation for..

857

Harvey, Alphonso H.,

pension increased

1667

Harvey, David,

pension increased .

2418

Harvey, Ella N. (widow), pension increased .

2113.

Harvey, James G.,

pension increased .

2692

Harvey, John T.,

pension increased .

2334

Harvey, Samuel, pension increased ..

2293

Harvey, William , Ohio Volunteer Cavalry,

pension increased .

2233

Harvey, William , Ohio Volunteer Infantry,

pension increased .

1472

Haskell, Gardiner K. ,

pension increased ..

2091

Haskell Institute, Lawrence, Kans . , . appropriation for Indian school ..

347, 1029

Haskell, Oren D. ,

pension increased .

2543

Haslam, Jacob B. ,

pension increased .

2777

Hassett, Richard E.,

pension increased .

2380

Hastie, Robert,

pension increased .

2768

Hastings, Frank S. ,

Page.

pension increased .

2365

Hastings, Henry,

pension increased .

1584

Hastings, Nebr. ,

terms of court at....

998

Hastings, William T.,

pension increased

2696

Hatch, Davis W.,

pension increased

1712

Hatch, William D.,

pension increased

1584

Hatchie River, Tenn.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

Hatfield, John W.,

pension increased

1724

Hathaway, Augustus,

pension increased

1990

Hathaway, Elizabeth (mother) ,

pension..

2100

Hathorn, Arthur,

pension increased

2432

Hattan, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ...

2287

Haptetnesni, oFnrainnccirseaMs.ed, .

2657

Hatter, Francis,

pension increased .

1587

Hattery, Betsey (widow),

pension...

2229

Hattiesburg, Miss . ,

acquiring site for public building at, authorized ...
appropriation for. Hatton, Jacob L.,
pension increased .. Hattons Ford,
dam, etc. , authorized across Savannah River at

783 795 2297
1240

Hausen, Edward G.,

pension..

2364

Hausker, Angel,

pension increased

1598

Havel, George A.,

pension increased .

1878

Havens, James D.,

pension increased ..

1749

Havens , Rolland,

pension increased ...

1798

Havre, France, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire....

99 294, 924

Hawaii,

appropriation for salaries, government in. 417, 963

for legislative expenses..

417

for circuit court judges .

963

for contingent expenses.

417,963

for salaries, district court.

447, 992

for constructing seacoast batteries .. 464, 1061

for sites for defense of....

464

for relief and protection of shipwrecked

seamen ...

295, 925

for meteorological stations .

672, 1258

for agricultural experiment stations ; ter supply .
for quarantine system.
for leprosy hospital .. reappropriation ..
for lighting waters of. for survey of coasts . for books, courts in. for public works, naval station .

wa693, 1279 709
709, 1307 1307
713, 1320
714, 1322 756 1188

act of legislature granting telephone fran-

chise, island of Oahu , ratified and

confirmed ...

309

INDEX .

3421

Hawaii- Continued .
books for courts, appropriation continued .
head-tax provisions as to aliens in... light station directed, Makapuu Point,
Oahu ... passenger list of vessels to United States
from, to be given immigration officer of port on arriving.... personal property ceded to United States may be sold, etc ..... former sales, etc. , confirmed ; disposal
of proceeds.... provisions for election of Delegate from....: tender for light-house use in waters of, etc.,
authorized ... appropriation for. waters of, included in fifth great coasting
district..
Hawes, Amelia M. (widow), pension increased .
Hawk, Alfred T., pension increased .
Hawkes, Emma A. (widow) , pension...
Hawkes, Sarah A. (widow) , pension...
Hawkins, Franklin G., pension increased .
Hawkins, Jacob S. , pension increased .
Hawkins, Lorin N. , pension increased .
Hawkins, Nicholas M., return from President requested of bill to pension ..
Hawkins, Wyatt S. , Chickasaw Citizen, alienation restrictions removed .
Hawthorn, Sadie E. (widow), pension....
Hay, John, Secretary of State, proclamation announcing death of .......
Hay Scales, D. C., regulations for sale of use of public, authorized .
Hayes, Catharine (widow), pension...
Hayes, Hannah, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to .
Hayes, Hannah M. (widow), pension increased.
Hayes, John E., pension increased ..
Hayes, John H., pension increased .
Hayes, Joshua L., pension increased ..
Hayes, Maurice, pension increased ..
Hayes, Nanny E. (mother), pension...
Hayman, James H. , pension increased .
Hayner, Emeline S. (widow), pension..
Haynes, David C.,. payment to heirs of..
Haynes, J. B., deficiency appropriation for services..................
Haynes, Margaret (widow), pension increased ..
Hays, Daniel, pension increased ....
Hays, Elizabeth T. (widow), pension increased ..

Page. 1361
898 323
902 204 204 550 996 1319 190 2268 1556 2484 2482 1773 2724 2681
2840 345 2786 / 3112
72 2728 380 2018 2690 2803 2804 1601 2664 2522 1481 2466 1395 2050 1567 2534

Hays, Joseph M., pensión increased .

Page.. 2052

Hays, William H. ,

pension increased .

2297

Hays, William J.,

pension increased .

1803

Hayl, Kathryn G. (widow),

pension increased .

1627

Hayter, George W.,

pension increased .

1814

Hayward, Alfred, pension increased .

2576

Hayward, Charlotte G.,

payment to administrator of..

2665

Hayward, Columbus F.,

payment to executor of..

2665

Hayward, Frederick E. ,

pension increased ..

2595

Hayward, Wis. , appropriation for Indian school ..
Haywood, Edmond R., pension increased ..
Hazen, John, pension increased ..

379, 1051 1805 2736

Hazing, Naval Academy,

punishment of midshipmen for...

104

description of offense ....

105

copies of hearings on, ordered printed

2831

Hazleton, Pa.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for..

793, 1299

Hazlitt, Isaiah H.,

pension increased ..

2047

Head, James G.,

pension increased....

1535

Head Tax,

levied on aliens arriving from abroad

increased .

898

exceptions..

898

payment on immigrants from contiguous

territory .

898

Headstones for Soldiers' Graves, appropriation for... deficiency appropriation for
Heald, Benjamin, F., pension increased .

740, 1346 46,
666, 1041 , 1380, 1404
1981

Healey, Wilhelmina (widow),

pension increased .

1624

Health Department, D. C.,

appropriation for Lealth officer, inspectors ,

etc ...

505, 1145

forpreventing contagious diseases, etc. 506 , 1145

available for enforcing new law.

1379

for disinfecting service..

506, 1146

for sanitary emergency fund .

506, 1146-

for expenses, food , etc. , adulterations . 506, 1146

for inspecting dairy farms, etc .......... 506, 1146 for contagious diseases, isolating wards 506, 1146

for roadways, smallpox quarantine and

hospital ..

1146

for public crematory.

1146

deficiency appropriation for isolating ward ,

Garfield Hospital...

642

for dairy inspectors , etc.

1378

for food, etc., adulteration ..

1379

births to be reported to ; data required... 1010

duties of, board for condemning insanitary

buildings ....

157

reports of contagious diseases cases required

to be made to..

889

Healy, Samuel G.,

pension increased ..

2439

3414

INDEX.

Graham, Anderson, pension increased .

Page. 2518

Graham, Arthur, pension increased ..

-2642

Graham, Benjamin F., granted honorable discharge ...

2064

Graham, Ellen R. (widow),

pension increased .

1478

Graham, Jacob A. ,

pension increased .

2399

Graham, James,

pension increased ..

1533

Grahams Island, N. Dak.,

restored to public domain ....

360

subject to allotment to Turtle Mountain

Band of Chippewas....

361

Grain and Seed,

appropriation for inspection and grading of,

for export, etc....

681 , 1267

Grain Elevators , etc. ,

testimony, investigation of, ordered

printed

2837

Gramberg, Mary (widow),

pension increased ..

2354

Grand Army of the Republic, D. C. ,

punishment for unauthorized wearing in-

signia of....

62

Grand Army Soldiers and Sailors' Home, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses..

512, 1153

Grand Calumet River,

bridge authorized across, in Illinois....... 1234

Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, Ariz., game preserve to be set apart in . proclamation adding lands to..

607 3009

hunting, etc., animals in, unlawful ; pun-

ishment for violations ..

607

proclamation modifying area..

3223

declaring, a game preserve..

3263

Grand Detour, Ill.,

construction of dam authorized across Rock

River near .

14

Grand Forks, N. Dak.,

terms of court at..

609, 610

Grand Haven, Mich

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1097

Grand Island Harbor, Lake Superior,

range lights established at; light station to

be discontinued..

996

appropriation for ..

1319

Grand Island, Nebr.,

construction of public building authorized . 777

appropriation for.

791, 1298

terms of court at..

998

Grand Junction, Colo.,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 334, 1023 deficiency appropriation for Indian school. 38

Grand Lake, La., appropriation for lighting channel..

713, 1320

Grand Lodge Independent Order of Odd Fel-

lows, D. C.,

may sell Odd Fellows Hall ..

614

authorized to purchase and hold property:

limit ..

614

Grand Marais, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor of

refuge...

1096

Grand Marais, Minn., appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1101

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made .

1114

Grand Rapids, Mich. ,

public building to be disposed of, and new

one erected on site ; cost .

785

appropriation for........ rent ..

796, 1298 1298

Grand River, La.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of......... 1089 Grand River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1097

Grandaw, William H.,

pension increased .

2727

Grande Ronde Agency, Oreg. ,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at..

369, 1045

Grande Ronde Indian Rerervation, Oreg.,

appropriation for purchase of lands for

John Smith and Jane Isaac, allottees . 1045

Grandy, Melvin,

pension increased .

1931

Granniss, Mary W. (widow) , pension....
Grant, Fanny M. (widow), pension..
Grant, Fannie S. (daughter),
pension.... Grant, John J.,
pension increased . Grant, Julia P. (widow),
pension increased ..

2690 2746 2723 1513 2363

Grant, Lewis A.,

pension increased..

2440

Grant Memorial, D, C.,

appropriation for erection of; site, etc ............. 735

Grant, William,

pension increased..

2706

Grass, Harman,

pension increased...

2721

Grasses, etc.,

test of seeds, etc. , Canada bluegrass ..... 681, 1267

Graves ofConfederate Soldiers and Sailors,

appropriation for marking graves, etc., of,

who died in northern prisons and

hospitals ....

56

Graves, Sewell F.,

pension increased.

1973

Gray, Charles P.,

pension increased..

2252

Gray Cloud, Arthur, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

373 ,

Gray, Frank N.,.

pension increased .

1694

Gray, George,

reappointed on Board of Regents, Smith-

sonian Institution ....

1419

Gray Horse, Okla.,

lands, buildings, etc. , reserved for benefit-

of Osages ; sales ....

542

Gray, James,

pension increased.

2003

Gray, Marcena C. S.,

pension increased .

2463

Gray, Washington D.,

pension increased ..

2432

Gray, William E.,

pension increased .

2478

Gray, William S.,

pension increased .

2421

Grays Harbor, Wash. ,

appropriation for improvement of, and bar

entrance; contracts ...

1108

inner portion..

1108

preliminary examination to be made for

ship canal to Puget Sound ..

1118

Grays River, Wash. , appropriation for improvement of......... 1108

Grayson, James D. , K

pension increased ..

2530

Grayson, Joel, appropriation for..

395, 941

INDEX .

3415

Grayson, John T., pension increased .

Page. 2771

Great Britain, appropriation for ambassador to..

286, 916

for secretary of embassy. for second secretary..

287, 917 287, 917

for third secretary . for clerks at embassy.

287, 918 289, 919

for reports, etc. , Joint High Commission

on Canadian questions...

292

for marking Alaska and Canada boundary

under treaties, etc.

292, 922

for marking boundary under treaty of

1842 with..

292, 923

forjoint commission on use of Saint John

River...

292

convention with, for marking boundary between Alaska and British posses-

sions ....

2948

extradition convention with , crimes added . 2903

negotiations with, requested to preserve

Niagara Falls, etc..

628

treaty with, surrendering extra-territorial

rights in Zanzibar

2870

Great Council of the United States Improved

Order ofRed Men, D. C.,

incorporated; powers, etc.

117

Great Diamond Island, Me., preliminary examination to be made of

passage between Peaks Island and .. 1113

Great Falls, Mont.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

780

appropriation for.

793, 1298

Great Kanawha River,
appropriation for lighting.. Great Lakes,

713, 1320

appropriation for lighting channels of.. 713, 1321

diversion of waters of, may be fixed by

Congress..

626

Great Lakes Naval Training Station,

appropriation for maintenance.

556, 1178

for buildings...

567, 1189

preparation, etc. , of plans: architects,

etc.

567

Great Nemaha Agency Indians, Kans.,

share of minors, etc., in trust funds may be

paid to guardians..

356

Great Pedee River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of..... 1084, 1344

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

Great Salt Pond, Block Island, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1075 Great Sodus Bay, N..Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1078

Great South Bay, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1077 Greece and Montenegro,

appropriation for minister to.. for secretary of legatión....

287, 917 287, 917

Greeley, Almond,

pension increased ..

2151

Green Bay, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor ... 1101

for public building.

1298

limit of cost increased , public building... 774

Green, Charles,

pension increased ..

2399

Green, Ella B. (widow),

pension increased ..

2278

Green, Galen E.,

granted honorable discharge ..

2412

Green, George K., pension increased .

2114

Green, George S., pension increased .

Page. 2189

Green, George W.,

pension increased ..

2575

Green, Hannah W. (widow) ,

pension..

1470

Green, Hugh,

pension increased ..

1725

Green Jacket Shoal , R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of.............. 739 , 1345

Green, John,

pension increased .

1811

Green, Joseph E.,

pension...

1868

Green, Louis,

pension increased .

2646

Green, Nathaniel, pension increased .
Green, Peter,
granted honorable discharge ..

2426 2414

Green, Philo,

pension increased .

2056

Green, Thomas J.,

pension increased

2649

Green, Walter,

pension increased .

1837

Green, William H.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment..

653

Greenawalt, Ephraim,

payment to..

2406

Greencastle, Ind.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for.

794

Greene, Catharine A. (widow),

pension increased .

2631

Greene, Mary (widow),

pension increased ..

1468

Greene, Walter D.,

pension increased ..

2438

Greeneville, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement , etc. , na-

tional cemetery..

1348

terms of court ..

298

Greenlee, Samuel,

pension increased :.

1722

Greenhill, R. I.,

life-saving station established at..

298

Greensburg, Pa.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for..

795

Greenville, Miss.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for.....

793, 1298

Greenville, Ohio,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for..

.... 793, 1298

Greenville, S. C.,

acquiring land for, and extending públic

building at, authorized ..

776

appropriation for ..

791, 1298

appropriation for acquiring site and erect-

ing public building at.

793

terms of court at.

1002

Greenville, Tex.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1299

3416

INDEX.

Greenwich, Conn.,

Page:

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1076

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

782

appropriation for .

794

Greenwood, S. C.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for .

793, 1299

Greer, Benjamin F.,

pension increased.

1904

Gregg, G. Annie (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2118

Gregg, Louisa,

pension

1967

Gregg, Playford,

pension increased .

1774

Gregg Shoals, Savannah River,

dam authorized at..

876

Gregory, Eleanor (widow) ,

pension increased ...

1992

Gregory, Horace A. ,

pension increased .

1858

Gregory, John,

pension increased ..

2546

Grell, Jacob,

pension increased ..

2681

Grenoble, France,

classification and salary of consul ........ 100

Gresham, William,

appropriation for value of dory.

1291

Grier, Josiah M.,

pension increased ..

1572

Griesc, Wilhelm,

pension increased .

2192

Griffeth, Milton A. , pension increased .
Griffin, Ga., acquiring site for public building at, authorized ..
appropriation for..

2058
782 794

Griffin, George N., pension increased .
Griffin, James H., pension increased .

2373 1802

Griffin, Oliver H., pension
Griffin, Robert Henderson, pension increased..
Griffith, David D., pension increased .

2336 1,761 1631

Griffith, Peleg T., granted honorable discharge..
Griffith, Thomas, pension increased .
Griffith, Thomas M. , pension increased .
Griffith, William F., pension increased.
Grimm, John, pension increased ..
Grimsley, Amelia E. (widow) , pension increased ..

2214 1743 2536 1872 2493 1880

Grissom, Joseph C., pension increased .
Griswold, Isaac L., pension increased .
Griswold, Lester M. P., pension increased ..

1708 2653 2714

Gritts, Levi B. , William Brown and, may bring suit in Court of Claims for Chero-

kees, to determine validity of laws

restricting alienation, etc.

1028

Grizzle, James,

pension increased..

1766

Groezinger, Gotlob, refund of taxes to administrator of.

Page. 2309

Groff, Marcelina S. (widow),

pension...

1650

Grogan, Harriet E. , formerly Preston,

pension increased.

1671

Grossman, Louis,

pension...

1801

Grover, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

2280

Groves , Andrew H.,

pension increased ..

2578

Grow, William J. ,

pension increased

1501

Guadalupe River, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ...

1091

Guadeloupe, West Indies,

classification and salary of consul .....

100

Guam ,

appropriation for public works, naval sta-

tion ..

566, 1188

for buildings for lepers, etc.

1189

acknowledgment of deeds etc., affecting

lands in District of Columbia or Ter-

ritories

552

head tax, provisions as to aliens in..

898

passenger list of vessels to United States

from, to be given immigration offi-

cer of port on arriving.

902

transportation permitted on transports to.. 1171

Guantanamo, Cuba,

appropriation for light-house service, naval

station ..

713

for marine barracks..

1191

for hospital for laborers.

1192

Guardians, D. C.,

jurisdiction ofjuvenile court over, neglect-

ing, etc., children......

74

Guatemala,

appropriation for minister to..

916

for secretary of legation.....

917

Guatemala and Honduras,

appropriation for minister to..

286

for secretary of legation...

287

Guatemala, Guatemala.

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

Guayaquil, Ecuador,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire....

294, 924

Gude, Alfred, pension increased..

2106 ,

Gude, Henry,

military record corrected .

2063

Guile, Charles H.,

pension increased .

2178

Guilroy, Margaret (widow),

pension..

2483

Guiney, Jeannette M. (widow),

pension increased .

2503

Guion, William R.,

pension increased .

1747

Guiott, Joseph,

pension increased ....

2059

Guitar, Henry, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

356

Gulfof Mexico, appropriation for surveys of coasts ... 714, 1321

landing, etc. , sponges taken from, by div-

ing, prohibited ; exception ..

313

GulfQuarantine Station, Ship Island, Miss.,

appropriation for reconstructing , etc.

1307

Gulfport, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of anchor- age bagin, etc .. 1088

INDEX .

3417

Gulfport, Miss.--Continued.

Page.

appropriation for improvement of channel

to Ship Island Harbor..........

1344

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for..

793, 1299

payment for dredging channel and anchor-

age basin, Mississippi Sound be-

tween Ship Island Harbor and ..... 833

Gull Lake, Minn.,

appropriation for low reservoir dam , head-

waters of the Mississippi River..... 1105

Gunderson, Ole,

pension increased ..

2727

Gunnery Exercises, Navy,

appropriation for prizes, targets, etc... 556, 1178

deficiency appropriation for...

1385, 1402

Gunnison Forest Reserve, Colo..

proclamation establishing -

3025

Guns, Automatic, etc.,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc.

463 , 1059

Gunselman, Valentine,

pension increased.

1904

Gunton-Temple Memorial Presbyterian Church,

D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

869

Gurley Memorial Presbyterian Church, D. C., taxes refunded ..
Gurnee, Jonas, pension increased ..
Gurney, Ruth B. (widow), pension increased ..

870 2460 1482

Gustus, John,

pension increased .

2493

Guthrie, Christopher S.,

pension increased .

2073

Guthrie, David B.,

pension increased .

2060

Guthrie, Margaret E. (widow),

pension increased ....

2417

Guthrie, Okla.,

to be capital of State until 1913 ...

269

terms of court...

275

Guy, Henry,

pension increased .

1692

·Guyandot River, W. Va. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1118

Guin, Isum,

pension increased ..

2165

H.

Haack, John,

pension increased .

1685

Haas, Frank P.,

pension...

1479

Habana, Cuba,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.

293, 923

Hackett, James B. ,

pension increased .

2691

Hackley, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased .

1482

Hackney, James F.,

pension increased .

1848

Hackney, William H. ,

pension increased .

1919

Hadley, Weymouth,

pension increased!.

2370

Hadsall, John E.,

pension increased .

1538

Haferstein, Gottfried,

pension increased ..

2805

Hagan, Lawrence,

pension increased ..

2345

Hagar, Lucas, pension increased .
Hagemiller, Herman, pension increased ..
Hager, James W., pension increased .
Hager, John, pension increased .

Page. 1781 2479 2057 2443

Hagerstown, Md.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

779

appropriation for.

792, 1299

Hague Convention, The,

appropriation for expenses, court of arbi-

tration created by ..

291 , 921

Hague Peace Conference, Second International, appropriation for expenses, participation in 922

deficiency appropriation for expenses of

Commission

118

Hahn, Henry,

pension increased .

1895

Haight, Allen M.,

pension increased ..

2347

Hailey Land District , Idaho,

proclamation reserving lands for town site entrics under reclamation act, in ... 3215

Haines, William,

pension increased .

1991

Hains, Benjamin, pension increased .

2260

Hair, David H.,

pension increased .

2166

Haire, Arthur,

pension increased .

1693

Haiti, appropriation for minister to...
extradition treaty with Halbert, Marion F.,
pension increased .

287, 917 2858
2155

Halbert, Mary J. (widow),

pension increased ..

2019

Hale, George W.,

pension...

1652

Hale, William,

pension increased .

2680

Ilales, James R.,

pension increased .

1788

Haley, Martin,

pension increased .

2171

Halfiron, John, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Halifax, Nova Scotia, classification and salary of consul-generai.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.

294, 924

Hall, Anna Frances (widow),

pension increased..

1837

Hall, Edwin S.,

payment to..

2310

Hall, Henry D.,

pension incrcased .

1853

Hall, James P.,

pension increased ..

2090

Hall, John B.,

pension increased ..

1887

Hall, John W. ,

pension...

1847

Hall, John W. , Mexican War,

pension increased....

2525

Hall, Josiah,

pension increased .

2234

Hall, Levi M.,

pension increased .

2182

Hall, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2213

3418

INDEX.

Hall, Mary C. (widow), pension increased .
Hall, Richard B., pension increased .

Page. 2520
2696

Hall, Silas P.,

pension increased .

1487

Hall, William, Illinois Volunteers,

pension increased ...

2647

Hall, William, Kentucky Volunteers,

pension increased .

2049

Hall, William M.,

pension increased .

1536

Hallenbeck, Cornelius A. ,

pension increased ..

1432

Haller, Martha J. (widow),

pension increased ..

2274

Hallett, Margaret (widow),

pension increased ..

1662

Hallowell, Martha E. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1624

Ham, Amos,

pension increased...

2279

Ham, John,

pension increased ...

2802

Ham, Mark,

pension increased .

2229

Haman, James H.,

pension increased .

1858

Hamburg, Germany, classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire......

293, 924

Hamenstaedt, Henry V. ,

pension increased ..

1655

Hamill, Priscilla L. (widow),

pension increased .

2668

Hamill, Robert L., pension increased ..

... 2469

Hamilton, Bermuda,

classification and salary of consul .....

100

Hamilton, George D.,

appropriation for, from funds of Chippewas

of the Mississippi ..

351

Hamilton, John, Chaplain,

pension increased ..

1701

Hamilton, John, Kentucky Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2103

Hamilton, Ohio,

construction of public building authorized

at..

777

appropriation for..

791 , 1299

Hamilton, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Hamilton, Robert,

pension increased .

2695

Hamilton, Sherrod,

pension increased .

2274

Hamilton, Thomas,

pension increased ..

2583

Hamlen, Alfred M.,

pension increased .

1952

Hammaker, W. S.,

payment to..

2820

Hamman, Philip,

pension increased ..

2576

Hamme, Henry,

pension increased .

2394

Hammes, Mathias,

pension increased .

1945

Hammond, Charles, alias Hiram W. Kirk-

patrick,

pension increased.

1872

Hammond, Frank G.,

pension increased ..

2312

Hammond, Ind.,

Page.

appropriation for public building ...

698

bridge authorized across Calumet River

at..

877

Hammond, Jehial P., pension increased .

2134

Hammond, John W..

return from President requested of bill to pension
Hammond, William, pension increased .

2832 2086

Hammons, George, and others,

may bridge Kentucky River at Beatty-

ville, Ky..

819

Hammontree, James E.,

pension increased .

2081

Hamner, Theron,

pension increased .

2432

Hampton Roads, Va. ,

appropriation for improvement of....

1082

deficiency appropriation for aid to James-

town Exposition on...

886

for dredging channels to piers, James-

town Exposition...

887

anchorage_grounds, etc., to be established

for Jamestown Exposition.....

1383

Hampton, Va.,

appropriation for Indian school ..

376, 1050

for expenses, Volunteer Soldiers ' Home;

additions ...

747, 1353

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer

Soldiers' Home....

34, 1382

Hamre, Albert J.,

pension increased ..

2531

Hancher, Elizabeth Jane (widow),

pension increased ..

2403

Hancock, Josiah C. (son),

pension...

2317

Hancock, Samuel H.,

pension increased ..

1845

Hand, John,

pension increased ..

2753

Hand, Lemuel,

pension increased ..

2201

Hand, Orlando,

pension increased .

2048

Hand, William ,

pension increased..

2326

Haner, Francis,

pension increased..

2299

Hanes, Elias,

pension increased..

2071

Haney, James M.,

pension increased .

2786

Hanford, Abbie L. (widow),

pension..

2748

Hanigan, William E.,

pension increased .

2478

Hankau, China,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

session of United States court in..

814

Hanlon, Timothy,

pension increased .

2587

Hann, James,

pension increased .

1755

Hanna, David,

pension increased

1585

Hanna, James P.,

pension increased

2586

Hanna, Kate E. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2339

Hannah, John W. ,

pension increased .

1728

Hannahs, Antoinette (widow),

pension increased .

1519

INDEX .

5419

Hanover, Germany, classification and salary of consul ..

Page. 100

Hanson, Mary (widow),

pension increased ,

1971

Hanson, Nelson,

pension increased .

2356

Hanson, Theodore H.,

pension increased .

1637

Hapeman, Ella T, (widow) ,

pension...

1507

Hapgood, George W.,

pension increased .

2717

Harbert, Asa K.,

pension increased .

2671

Harbin, Manchuria,

classification and salary of consul . Harbison-Walker Company,
duties refunded ..

99 2811

Harbor and River Front, D. C. ,

appropriation for plans, etc. , for improving, 495

deficiency appropriation for..

641

Harbor Beach, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge...

1097

Harbor Patrol, D. C.,

appropriation for officers and expenses . 504, 1144

Harbors,

appropriation for improvement of rivers

and ..

736, 1073, 1344

for searchlights for defense of. in insular possessions .....

462, 1058 1061

modification of improvement of Milwau-

kee, Wis. , authorized ...

819

use for dredging authorized of appropria-

tion for South Haven, Mich.

837

Harbors, Porto Rico,

construction of wharves, etc. , in, author-

ized; conditions...

234

Hardester, Josephine (widow),

pension increased

2203

Hardesty, William,

pension increased

2750

Hardie, Emeline H. (widow) ,

pensión increased .

2817

Hardin, Davis, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

365

Harding, Eliza J. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1493

Harding, Samuel J.,

pension increased

1780

Hardy, Edwin R.,

pension increased .

1822

Hardy, Sylvenus,

pension increased .

1580

Hardy, Victoria, Kansas Indian Allottee,

corrected fee-simple patent to heirs of..

364

Hardy, William,

pension increased

1745

Hare, James F.,

pension increased

1436

Hare, Joseph, jr.,

pension increased

2731

Harelson, Assov,

pension increased .

2302

Hares, Henry,

pension increased

1902

Hargis, John C. L. ,

pension increased

2599

Hargrave, Elizabeth P. (widow), pension increased .
Hargrave, John R., pension increased .

2741, 2545

Harlan, Christopher C. ,

pension increased .

1715

Harlan, Samuel W., pension increased
Harlan, William A. , pension increased .
Harlem River, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of.........................
Harman, Michael, pension increased .
Harman, Walter S., pension....
Harmon, Decatur, pension increased .
Harmon, Eleazer C., pension increased
Harmon, Lorenzo F. ,

Page. 1980 2402
1078 . 2640 2242 1719 2038

return from President requested of bill to pension .
Harmony, Leonard, pension increased .
Harper, John, pension .
Harpswell Steamboat Company, payment to..

28.8 1495 1654 2658

Harput, Turkey,

classification and salary of consul.

100

Harral, Jésse,

pension.

2482

Harrelson, Jasper N.,

persion increased .

1899

Harriman, Ellen (widow) ,

pension....

1718

Harrington Almus,

pension increased

2211

Harrington, David,
granted honorable discharge.. Harrington , Sarah R. (widow),
pension increased .
Harris, Andrew J., pension increased .
Harris, George W., pension increased .
Harris , Heman A., pension increased .
Harris, John G., pension increased .
Harris, Luther W., pension increased
Harris, Overton E., pension increased .
Harris, T. J. H., payment to..
Harris, Thomas M. , pension increased

2467 2468. 2710 2298 2176 1609 2633 2746 2407 2132

Harris, William M., pension increased

2475

Harris, William T.,

pension increased :

1685

Harrison, Allamanza M. (widow),

pension increased .

2103

Harrison, Edson J.,

pension increased .

1721

Harrison, Gen. William Henry,

appropriation for monument at Tippecanoe,

Ind., to, and the American Army .. 1410

Harrison, Jesse,

pension increased...

1569

Harrison, John, pension increased .

1977 .

Harrison, Robert G.,

pension increased .

1840

Harrison, Thomas,

pension increased .

2341

Harrison, Thomas J.,

pension increased .

2675

3420

INDEX .

Harrisonburg, Va. , terms of coúrt at .

Page. 547

Harrop, Thomas,

pension increased

2712

Harroun, Susan (widow) ,

pension increased .

2543

Harsh, Joseph W.,

pension increased .

1991

Hart, Amos,

pension increased

1761

Hart, Edward,

pension increased

2125

Hart, James S.,

pension increased

2513

Hart, John K.,

pension increased

2187

Hart, M. N.,
payment to.. Harte, Daniel J.,
pension increased

2661 2364

Hartenstein, Herman L., may dam Saint Joseph River near Mott-

ville, Mich.....

1254

Harter, Martin,

pension' increased

1758

Hartford, Conn. ,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing..

1375

Hartley, Samuel ,

pension increased

2160

Hartman, Jacob,

pension increased

2482

Hartshorn, Dana W. ,

pension increased

2257

Hartshorne, Alice B. (widow) ,

pension increased

1772

Hartwell, Lorenzo D.,

pension increased

1916

Hartzel, James,

pension increased

1475

Hartzell, Judd O.,

payment to ...

2151

Harvard Street NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands for extending

to Sixteenth street...

856

appropriation for..

857

Harvey, Alphonso H.,

pension increased

1667

Harvey, David,

pension increased .

2418

Harvey, Ella N. (widow) , pension increased

2113 .

Harvey, James G.,

pension increased

2692

Harvey, John T.,

pension increased

2334

Harvey, Samuel,

pension increased ..

2293

Harvey, William, Ohio Volunteer Cavalry,

pension increased ..

2233

Harvey, William, Ohio Volunteer Infantry,

pension increased .

1472

Haskell, Gardiner K.,

pension increased ..

2091

Haskell Institute, Lawrence, Kans . , . appropriation for Indian school ........ 347, 1029

Haskell, Oren D.,.

pension increased .

2543

Haslam, Jacob B.,

pension increased .

2777

Hassett, Richard E.,

pension increased .

2380

Hastie, Robert,

pension increased .

2768

Hastings, Frank S.,

Page.

pension increased

2365

Hastings, Henry,

pension increased

1584

Hastings, Nebr.,

terms of court at.....

998

Hastings, William T..

pension increased .

2696

Hatch, Davis W.,

pension increased

1712

Hatch, William D. ,

pension increased .

1584

Hatchie River, Tenn.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

Hatfield, John W.,

pension increased .

1724

Hathaway, Augustus,

pension increased

1990

Hathaway, Elizabeth (mother),

pension..

2100

Hathorn, Arthur,

pension increased .

2432

Hattan, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2287

Haptetnesni, oFnrainnccirseaMs.ed, .

2657

Hatter, Francis,

pension increased ..

1587

Hattery, Betsey (undow),

pension...

2229

Hattiesburg, Miss . ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for.

795

Hatton, Jacob L.,

pension increased..

2297

Hattons Ford,

dam, etc., authorized across Savannah

River at

1240

Hausen, Edward G.,

pension...

2364

Hausker, Angel,

pension increased

1598

Havel, George A., pension increased . 1878

Havens, James D.,

pension increased .

1749

Havens, Rolland, pension increased .
Havre, France, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire........

1798
99 294, 924

Hawaii,

appropriation for salaries, government in . 417, 963

for legislative expens S..

417'

for circuit court judges .. for contingent expenses . for salaries, district court .

963 417,963 447, 992

for constructing seacoast batteries .... 464, 1061

for sites for defense of..

464

for relief and protection of shipwrecked

seamen ..

295, 925

for meteorological stations..

672, 1258

for agricultural experiment stations ; ter supply
for quarantine system . for leprosy hospital ...
reappropriation .. for lighting waters of.. for survey of coasts.. for books, courts in . for public works, naval station .

wa693, 1279 709
709, 1307 1307
713, 1320 714, 1322
756
1188

act of legislature granting telephone fran-

chise, island of Oahu, ratified and

confirmed ...

309

INDEX.

3421

Hawaii-Continued .

Page.

books for courts, appropriation continued .
head-tax provisions as to aliens in... light station directed , Makapuu Point,
Oahu ...... passenger list of vessels to United States

1361 898
323

from, to be given immigration officer

of port on arriving..

902

personal property ceded to United States

may be sold, etc..

204

former sales, etc. , confirmed; disposal

of proceeds...

204

provisions for election of Delegate from ... 550

tender for light-house use in waters of, etc.,

authorized ..

996

appropriation for.

1319

waters of, included in fifth great coasting

district ...

190

Hawes, Amelia M. (widow) , pension increased .
Hawk, Alfred T., pension increased ..
Hawkes, Emma A. (widow), pension..
Hawkes, Sarah A. (widow),
pension... Hawkins, Franklin G.,
pension increased . Hawkins, Jacob S.,
pension increased .
Hawkins, Lorin N., pension increased .

2268 1556 2484 2482 1773 2724 2681

Hawkins, Nicholas M., return from President requested of bill to pension .
Hawkins, Wyatt S., Chickasaw Citizen, alienation restrictions removed ..
Hawthorn, Sadie E. (widow), pension...
Hay, John, Secretary of State, proclamation announcing death of .......
Hay Scales, D. C. , regulations for sale of use of public , authorized ..

2840 345
2786 3112
72

Hayes, Catharine (widow),
pension.. Hayes, Hannah, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to.
Hayes, Hannah M. (widow) , pension increased.
Hayes, John E., pension increased .
Hayes, John H., pension increased.
Hayes, Joshua L., pension increased ..
Hayes, Maurice, pension increased ..
Hayes, Nanny E. (mother), pension..
Hayman, James H., pension increased .
Hayner, Emeline S. (widow), pension..
Haynes, David C.,. payment to heirs of..

2728 380 2018 2690 2803 2804 1601 2664 2522 1481 2466

Haynes, J. B., deficiency appropriation for services.................. 1395

Haynes, Margaret (widow),

pension increased ....

2050

Hays, Daniel,

pension increased ..

1567

Hays, Elizabeth T. (widow) ,. pension increased....

2534

Hays , Joseph M., pensión increased ..

Page.. 2052

Hays, William H.,

pension increased..

2297

Hays, William J.,

pension increased..

1803

Hayt , Kathryn G. (widow) ,

pension increased..

1627

Hayter, George W. ,

pension increased ..

1814

Hayward, Alfred, pension increased..
Hayward, Charlotte G., payment to administrator of.

2576 2665

Hayward, Columbus F.,

payment to executor of.

Hayward, Frederick E.,

pension increased .

Hayward, Wis. ,

appropriation for Indian school....

Haywood, Edmond R. ,

pension increased .

Hazen, John,

*

pension increased..

2665 2595 379, 1051 1805 2736

Hazing, Naval Academy,

punishment of midshipmen for.

104

description of offense...

105

copies of hearings on, ordered printed

2831

Hazleton, Pa. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for.

$793, 1299

Hazlitt, Isaiah H. ,

pension increased .

2047

Head, James G.,

pension increased .

1535

Head Tax,

levied on aliens arriving from abroad

increased .

898

exceptions..

898

payment on immigrants from contiguous

territory .

898

Headstones for Soldiers' Graves,

appropriation for......

740, 1346

deficiency appropriation for

46 ,

666, 1041 , 1380, 1404

Heald, Benjamin, F.,

pension increased ..

1981

Healey, Wilhelmina (widow) ,

pension increased..

1624

Health Department, D. C. ,

appropriation for Lealth officer, inspectors,

etc.

505, 1145

forpreventing contagious diseases, etc. 506 , 1145

available for enforcing new law..

1379

for disinfecting service...

506, 1146

for sanitary emergency fund .

506, 1146

for expenses, food , etc. , adulterations . 506, 1146

for inspecting dairy farms, etc..

506, 1146

for contagious diseases , isolating wards 506, 1146

for roadways, smallpox quarantine and

hospital.

1146

for public crematory .

1146

deficiency appropriation for isolating ward ,

Garfield Hospital ..

642

for dairy inspectors, etc.

1378

for food, etc. , adulteration..

1379

births to be reported to ; data required .

1010

duties of, board for condemning insanitary

buildings ..

157

reports of contagious diseases cases required

to be made to ..

889

Healy, Samuel G.,

pension increased ..

2439

3422

INDEX.

Heaney, John T., pension increased .
Heap, S. L.,

Page. 2205

appropriation for reimbursing ............ 1293

Hearings in Land Entries,

appropriation for expenses..

724, 1332

deficiency appropriation for expenses..... 886

Hearne, William C.,

pension increased .

1809

Heath, Emma M. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1476

Heath, Horace E., pension increased .

2795

Heath, John,

pension increased .

2431

Heating, etc., Apparatus, Public Buildings,

appropriation for..

700, 1306

Heating, etc., Plant for Congressional Build-

ings,

appropriation for completing construction .. 1331

limit of cost increased ; contracts author-

ized .....

36

Hebrews ,

expression of sympathy with, on account

of massacres in Russia....

835

Heck, Jacob H.,

pension increased ..

2190

Heck, John,

pension increased .

1507

Hecker, John,

pension increased....

2165

Hedge Fence Shoal, Vineyard Sound, Mass. ,

light- vessel authorized ..

995

appropriation for..

1318

Hedgepeth, Lauranah J. (widow),

pension increased .:

2801

Hedges, Charles , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

357

Heed, William I.,

pension...

1479

Heikoyagmani, Johnnie, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

361

Heiler, Martin, alias Martin Huyler,

pension increased .

2499

Heiner, Helen G. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1817

Heinrichs, John, pension increased .
Heinzen, Anton, pension increased .
Held, Charles W., honorable discharge granted....
Helder, Frank, payment to .
"Helen R. ," Barge, refund of fine on..

2586 2576 2408 2661 2361

Helena Forest Reserve, Mont.,

proclamation establishing .

3196

Helena, Mont.,

appropriation for assay office at .

415, 962

Hell Gate Forest Reserve, Mont.,

proclamation establishing..

3168

enlarging boundaries ..

3213, 3230

Hell Gate, Ni Y.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1078

Helms, Gibson,

pension increased..........

2332

Helton, Henry,

pension increased .

2560

Helvey, Charles W.,

pension increased .

2470

Helvy, William M.,

pension increased ...

2807

Hemans, James, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Hempler, Emma (widow), pension increased..

Page. 2810

Hempstead, N. Y.,

preliminary examination of, harbor to be

made ..

1115

Hen and Chickens, Buzzards Bay, Mass.,

appropriation for light-vessel.

1317

Henderson, Charles W.,

pension increased..

1730

Henderson, George,

pension increased .

1876

Henderson, Henry T. , and Associates,

may divert Little River, at Mays Gulf,

Ala., for power plant at Blanche .... 818

payment to be made.....

818

Henderson, John,

pension increased .

1796

Henderson, John E., pension increased.
Henderson, Joseph J., lands reserved for mission Indians, Cal.,

2417

restored to public domain, and en-

try permitted by

3037

Henderson, N. C.,

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized...

783

appropriation for.

795

Hendricks, William,

pension increased.

2026

Heney, John C.,

pension increased .

1988

Hennessy, Michael V. ,

pension..

2416

Hennessy , Thomas J.,

payment to heirs of.

2815

Henning, Stephen J.,

pension increased ..

2600

Henninger, Jacob,

pension increased .

2325

Henninger, James F.,

pension increased .

2394

Hennon, James,

pension increased .

2161

Henrie, George W.,

pension increased .

2242

Henry, Anderson,

pension increased .

2433

Henry, Charles E., return from President requested of bill to pension .
" Henry D. McCord," Tug, appropriation for paying damages to owner.
Henry, George W., pension increased .
Henry, J. H., payment to ..

2837 1292 1585 2814

Henry, John A. ,

pension increased .

2552

Henry, John N., pension increased .

1840

Henry, John W.,

pension increased ..

2092

Henry Philipps Seed and Implement Com-

pany,

payment to .

2305

Henry, Robert J.,

pension increased .

2673

Henrys Lake Forest Reserve, Idaho,

proclamation establishing..

3052

Hensley, Martha J. (undow),

pension increased .

1754

Hentig, Laura (widow),

pension increased ,

2129

Heppner Forest Reserve, Oreg. ,

proclamation establishing.

3222

INDEX .

3423

Herald, Samantha E. (widow), pension increased .

Page. 1765

Herbert, Lemuel,

pension increased ..

1620

Hercher, Ferdinand,

pension increased ..

1927

Hercherberger, Nicholas,

pension increased..

1612

Herkner, T. R., payment to..
Hermann, Richard, payment to..
Hermosillo, Mexico, classification and salary of consul .........

2661 2661
100

Hernandez, Angelina (widow) ,

pension increased...

1460

Hernandez, Susan E. (widow) ,

pension increased..

2567

Herndon, John G. V. ,

pension increased ..

2322

Heroism, etc.,

officers Navy and Marine Corps advanced in rank for, to be carried as additional
numberin grade when promoted ....
Herrick, Wilford, pension increased .

296 2714

Herrick, William W. ,

pension increased .

2671

Herridge, Tillman, T. ,

pension increased .

1708

Herridge, William C.,

pension increased .

1877

Herriman, Homer F. , alias George F. Wilson,

pension increased .

1755

Herring, Calvin,

pension increased .

2742

Heryford, Wakeland,

granted honorable discharge ..

2219

Hesler, Charles T. ,

pension..

1596

Hess, George B.,

pension increased.

1960

Hess, Sheldon,

pension increased

2516

Hester, Jessie Marie (widow),

pension....

1520

Hester, William H. ,

pension increased ..

2044

Hetahuna, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled ........ 361

Hetherlin, John T.,

pension increased ..

2404

Heuer, Louis,

payment to..

2661

Hewitt, Isaac B. ,

pension increased ..

1648

Hewitt, Thomas L.,

pension increased .

2746

Heyburn, Idaho,

privileges of settlers, for entries under recla-

mation act ..

520

Heyn, Charles E. , Karl A. Torgerson and,

appropriation for purchase of land from .

1045

Hibbard, Helen G. (widow),

pension..

2216

Hibben, Oliver H.,

pension increased .

2150

Hibbs, William ,

pension increased .

2120

Hicahewrcazena, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled ........ 361

Hickcox, John, jr.,

pension increased .

2758

Hicks, Abram H. ,

pension increased ..

1774

Hicks, Edwin, pension increased ..
Hicks, James R.,
pension.... Hicks, Nellie, Indian Allottee,
alienation restrictions removed ..

Page. 1912
2086
345

Hicks, William H.,

pension increased ..

1502

Hierl, George, alias George Hill ,

pension increased..

2631

Higbie, Abram,

pension increased .

1977

Higgins, Edward,

pension increased .

2113

Higgins, Edwin L.,

pension increased .

1762

Higgins, Honora (widow),

pension increased .

2581

Higgins, John J.,

pension increased .

2490

Higgins, Josiah P. ,

pension increased..

2300

Higgins, Mary E. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2371

Higgins, Thomas W.,

payment to..

2153

High Seas,

punishment for shanghaiing extended to .. 1233

Highpoint, N. C.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for.

795

Hight, Laura G. (widow),

pension increased......

2593

Highway Bridge, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance......... 492, 1130

tíme for completing, and approaches, ex-

tended ..

821 , 1419

Highways, D. C.,

condemnation of land for, proceedings

under code ....

151

Highways, D. C., Permanent System of,

changes authorized in northwest section.. 800

new plans to be submitted of section of

northwest..

1130

for part of northeast section .

1244

Highways, Indian Territory,

requirements of, lands of Five Civilized

Tribes ...

145

Higley, Henry W.,

pension increased ..

1785

Hilburn, Virginia A. (widow),

pension..

1916

Hildebrand, Minna (widow),

pension increased .

2203

Hildenbrand, Frederick,

pension increased....

1749

Hiler, Joseph,

pension increased .

1453

Hilgeman, Laura (widow),

pension...

1965

Hilkey, William I.,

pension increased .

1508

Hill, Abram J.,

pension increased ..

1617

Hill, Amanda L. (widow),

pension increased...

1565

Hill , Charles R.,

pension..

1790

Hill, Franklin M. ,

pension increased ..

2066

Hill, George T.,

pension increased .

1708

Hill, Hannah, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ...

381

3424

INDEX .

Hill, Henry, pension increased .

Page. 2778

Hill, Henry H.,

pension increased .

1634

Hill, Henry, R.,

pension...

1691

Hill, Ira D.,

pension increased :

2627

Hill, Irvin M. ,

pension increased .

2680

Hill, James IF,

pension increased ..

1722

Hill, Moses,

pension increased ..

1825

Hill, Robert M. C..

pension increased .

2349

Hill, Sarah, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

381

Hill, W. S.,

payment to.

2661

Hilliard, James R. ,

pension increased .

2028

Hills, Agnes W. and Sarah J.,

payment to.

1959

Hillsboro Bay, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

738

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1112

Hilo, Hawaii,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts, etc ..

1109

land set apart for public buildings ; sale of

66

present structures..

302

Himalaya," Bark,

change of name authorized..

626

Himes, James P.,
pension.. Himmel, Margaret (widou ),
pension increased ..

1762 2228

Hinchinbrook Island, Alaska,

light and fog-signal station on , Prince Wil-

liam Sound, authorized . appropriation for..
contracts .

324 711, 1318
1318

Hinds, Asher C.,

appropriation for compiling, etc. , Prece-

dents of the House of Representa-

tives ..

1365

Hinds, Francis M.,

pension increased .

1982

Hinds' Parliamentary Precedents,

printing ordered ; distribution..

1365

appropriation for preparation, etc.

1365

Hiner, William R. ,

pension increased ..

2095

Hines, James,

pension increased .

1694

Hines, Samuel W.,

pension increased ..

2637

Ilingham, Mass., appropriation for improvement of harbor... 1074

Hinkle, Nathan,

pension increased .

1773

Hinman, Sarah M. E. ( widow),

pension increased ..

1938

Ilinton, W. Va. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

784

appropriation for .

796

Hirst, Joseph H.,

pension increased .

1696

Hirstein, Gust,

payment to..

2661

Hirth, John,

pension increased .

1924

Historic Antiquities,

Page.

preservation of, on public lands , etc...... 225

Historical Places, D. C.,

appropriation for tablets to mark.. .... 489, 1126

Hitchcock, Malinda II. (widow),

pension increased .

2501

Hitchcock, William C.,

pension increased .

1509

Hite, Francis A. ,

pension increased ....

-2045

Itt, R. R. , late a Representative in Congress,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow. 1396

'Hiwassee River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1094

Ulizar, Aquilla M.,

pension increased .

1884

Hoag, Ruth M. (widow);

pension increased ...

2707

Hoaglin, William ,

pension increased ...

1929

Hoar, Rockwood, late a Representative in Congress,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow. 1396

Hoban, Edward W.,

pension..

2748

Hobart, Henry II.,

pension increased .

1432

Hobart, John,

pension..

1787

Hobart , Tasmania,

classification and salary of consul .......... 100

Hobbs, Mary E. (widow), ·

pension increased ..

2509

Hobbs, Thomas J.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts of.

30, 639

Hoch, John,

pension increased .

2052

Hockley, Thomas B.,

pension increased .

2604

Hodgdon, Caroline L. (widow ), pension increased .

-2211

Hodge, Elizabeth (widow) , pension increased ..
Hodge, Wilbur F., pension increased .

2590 ... 2277

Hodgenville, Ky.,

appropriation for Lincoln memorial shaft

or tablet at .

1343

Hodges, Betsey A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2276

Hodges, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ..

2057

Hodges, Elizabeth A. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2057

Hodges, Ella A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2621

Hodges, George H., pension increased .
Hodges, Herrick, pension increased .
Hodges, Thomas T. , pension increased .
Hodges, William C., pension increased.

1463 1553 1504 ... 2552

Hodgman, George W., pension increased.
Hoell , George, pension increased.
Hoff, Esek W., pension increased....
Hoff, William D. , pension increased .

11

2280 2784 .9945 2706

INDEX.

3425 .

ME Hoffman Engineering and Contracting Com- Page.

pany,

payment to..

2306

Hoffman, John, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Hoffman, Martha (widow),

pension increased ..

1923

Hoffman, Nancy A. E. (widow),

pension increased..

2702

Hoffman, Samuel , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

357

Hoffman, Sarah E. (widow ),

pension increased.

2368

L.

Hoffmann, F. W.,

payment to..

2661

Hoffmann, Lewis,

pension increased ..

1982

Hoffmeister, Hermann,

pension increased ..

2644

Hoffner, Frederick,

pension increased .

2783

Hog Island, Va. , conveyance of former light-station to Broadwater Club, authorized ; condition .... 997

Hogan, Michael,

pension increased .

2535

Hogan, Thomas H. ,

pension increased .

2037

Hogans, Washington,

pension increased ..

1505

Hoge, Mary J. (widow ),

pension increased ..

1512

Hogs (see also Swine), appropriation for inspection of..
Holt , Rhoda A. (widow), pension increased ..

673, 1259 2393

Hoke, Hiram G. ,

pension increased .

1869

Holbrook, Augustus L.,

pension increased .

2282

Holcomb, Joshua,

pension increased ..

2162

Holcomb, Judson H.,

pension increased .

2569

Holcomb, Martin L.,

pension increased .

2173

Holden, George,

pension increased ..

1800

Holden, Margaret (widow) ,

pension increased..

2698

Holderby, Frank, alias Frank Giles,

pension increased.

2744

Holderby, James,

pension increased .

2173

Holiday Recess, ordered for 1905

2829

for 1906

2837

Holland (see Netherlands ).

Holland, Alphonso B.,

pension increased ..

1630

Holland, Mich. ,

· appropriation for pierhead light-station.... 716

for improvement of Black Lake.

738

for improvement of harbor..

1097, 1345

Holland, Samuel P.,

pension increased .

1967

Holland, Sarah E. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1990

Holland, William,

pension increased ..

1591

Holle, Mary (widow), pension increased .

2779

Hollett, James F. ,

pension increased .

1978

Holley, John, pension increased ..

Page. 2416

Holloway, William E., .

pension increased .

2123

Holly, Luther S.,

pension increased ...

1896

Holly Manufacturing Company,

appropriation for repayment of penalty de-

ducted from...

515

"Holm," Foreign-Built Dredge, to be documented as vessel of United States 204

Holmes, Bartholomew,

pension increased .

2387

Holmes County, Miss.,

construction of bridge authorized across

Yazoo River by Washington County

and ...

112

by Yazoo County and ..

618

Holmes, Martin, alias George Langin,

pension increased ...

2552

Holmes River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1087

Holmes, Virginia J. D. (widow),

pension increased ..

2015

Holmes, William, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

357

Holmes, Wilson M.,

pension increased .

2561

Holsey, John H.,

pension increased .

2438

Holston River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement o ............. .... ...` 1094

Holston River, Va. and Tenn.,

bridges authorized across, and branches . 191, 191

Holt, Isaac J.,

pension increased..

1693

Holt, Tobe,

granted honorable discharge .

2820

Holtzer-Cabot Electric Company,

payment to .

2662

Holvenstot, Marion L. (widow),

pension increased...

1786

Holy Cross Forest Reserve, Colo.,
proclamation establishing enlarging..
Holy Family Mission, Mont., grant of lands on Blackfeet Reservation to.
Homan, Charles H., pension increased ..

3144 3286
1036
2504

Home for Aged and Infirm, D. C.,.

appropriation for salaries and expenses . 509, 1150

sale of intoxicating liquors near, pro-

hibited..

870

Homefor Incurables, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance; electric

service....

510, 1151

Homeopathic Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for care of indigent

patients ....

510, 1151

Homeopathic Pharmacists, D. C.,

licensing of..

176

Homestead Entries,

allowed on certain lands in Yellowstone

Forest Reserve...

62

Edgar P. Swett .

2222

certain proofs, in Chamberlain district , 1 121 S. Dak., accepted ..
certain reservoir lands in Minnesota re-
stored to; flowage rights reserved... 195

irrigable lands, Yakima Indian Reserva-

tion , Wash. , subject to ..

53

opening of agricultural lands in Alabama to 88

openingColville Indian Reservation, Wash., 80.

3426

INDEX .

Homestead Entries-Continued.

Page.

proclamation opening to, pasture and wood

reserves, Apache, etc. , Indian Res-

ervations, Okla...

3233

speaking English not required for naturali-

zation of aliens making..

599

Homestead Settlers,

cash entry payments to be made by, only

after approval....

1245

erroneously entering certain indemnity

railroad lands credited for residence,

etc., on making new entries.....

120

granted extension of time to establish resi-

dence, etc. , in certain cases .

1421

on ceded lands, Crow Reservation , by.. 843

Shoshone Indian Reservation , Wyo .

849

Uinta ceded lands ...

9

on ceded Indian reservations, Minnesota, granted extension for payments .... 326

on lands in Alabama granted to railroads, allowed transfers of entries, etc .... 1408

temporary leaves of absence to, in North and

South Dakota, Wyoming, Minne-

sota, and Montana ..

1419

extended to Idaho and Washington..

1421

to be repaid excess of lawful purchase

money for lands...

1248

Homesteads,

agricultural lands in forest reservs may be

entered as; regulations ..

233

allotments to Alaska natives ; conditions .. 197

soldiers' additional rights assigned to M. J.

Wine, validated .

49

"Homeward Bound," Bark,

granted American register..

808

Hominy, Okla. ,

lands reserved for dwellings of Osages at;

sales ..

542

Homochitto River, Miss. , appropriation for improvement of....... 1088 preliminary examination of, to be made... 1114

Honaker, Floyd A.,

pension...

2424

Honduras and Salvador,

appropriation for minister to..

916

for secretary of legation..

917

Honduras, Guatemala and,

appropriation for minister to

286

for secretary of legation ..

287

Honeywell, John G.,

pension increased .

1735

Hongkong, China,

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire..

293, 923

Honolulu, Hawaii,

appropriation for naval station ; reclaim-

ing the reef........

566

for improvement of harbor; contracts . 738, 1109

for quarantine station, water supply .

1307

deficiency appropriation for quarantine

station...

29

for reclamation of Quarantine Island ..

29

for light station and range lights , harbor . 659

acquiring site for public building at,

authorized ..

782

appropriation for .

794

act of legislature granting telephone fran-

chise, ratified ..

309

light station, etc. , directed , at.

323

Honorable Discharges Granted,

Beall, William H.

2406

Bishop , Theodore H.

1859

Bowen, Oscar () .

2814

Callan, Thomas F.

2216

Chase, George H..

2408

Honorable Discharges Granted--Continued . Page.

Darling, James M..

2305

Davis, Seth...

2221, 2811

Deisch, Charles F.

1959

Devlin, James ..

2218

Ernst, Anton ..

2414

Graham, Benjamin F.

2064

Green, Galen E...

2412

Green, Peter...

2414

Griffith, Peleg T.

2214

Harrington, David .

2467

Held, Charles W.

2408

Heryford, Wakeland .

2219

Holt, Tobe..

2820

Keating, George H.

2466

Kolb , E. J ..

2154

Lavine, John..

2748

Liggett, Robert W.

2064

Lyons, Timothy..

2466

Meacham, Leví A.

2064

Mulford, James B.

2305

Murphy, Daniel B.

2221

Naddy, Patrick ..

2816

Osenburg, William H.

2413

Parsch, Peter..

2820

Quick, Homer..

2821

Reynolds, Joshua T.

2215

Rockwell, Jacob..

2821

Ross, Joseph P. W. R..

2414

Saphar, William ..

2220

Sheehan, Michael .

2408

Spalding, Charles W.

2823

Stephens, Wilbur C.

2219

Stockley, Charles H.

2339

Thomas, Henry G.

2139

Tubbs, Robert B.

2466

Ware, Taylor..

2221

Wisnewski, J. F.

2232

Honorable Service Roll,

establishment of, in postal service, pro-

hibited ...

478, 1217

Hood, Anna E. (widow),

pension increased .

2426

Hook, Andrew L.,

pension increased .

2609

Hooker, Delia A. , (widow),

pension increased

1652

Hoopa Valley Agency, Cal.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

of..

333, 1022

Hoornbeck, Josephine (widow), pension increased ..

1743 .

Hooton, Charles S. M.,

pension increased .

1457

Hoover, Evans P.,

pension increased .

2105

Hoover, James,

pension increased .

1628

Hoover, John S. ,

pension increased .

1441

Hoover, William C.,

pension increased .

2209

Hope, Margaret A. (widow),

pension increased .

2023

Hopkins, Charles,

pension increased .

2360

Hopkins, Charles P.,

pension increased .

1914

Hopkins, Harvey M. D. ,

pension increased ..

1544

Hopkins , Stephen D. ,

pension increased .

1714

Happer, Alvin D. ,

pension increased .

1756

INDEX .

3427

Hopper, William A. , alias Cuff Watson, pension increased ..

Page. 2137

Hoppin, Elizabeth D. (widow),

pension increased ..

1736

Horbach, James B. O. ,

pension increased .

2304

Horn, Christopher,

pension....

2564

Horn Harbor, Va.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1117

Horn Island, Miss.,

light station established ..

995

appropriation for .

1319

Horn Island Pass, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of.. ... . 1088

Horn River, N. Y., preliminary examination to be made of channel from Peters Neck Point to . 1115

Horn, Samuel,

pension increased..

1803

Horn, William R.,

pension increased..

2585

Hornbeak, John,

pension increased ..

1798

Horrall, Spillard F. ,

pension increased .

2155

Horses ,

appropriation for inspection of live .... 673, 1259

Horses, Army,

appropriation for care, etc. , of..

252, 1168

for purchase of; limit, etc .. purchases at posts, etc ..

252, 1168 252, 1168

deficiency appropriation for..

1382

use of part of Fort Keogh Reservation as

experimental breeding station ...... 252

Horses, etc. , Claims,

deficiency appropriation for....

46

Horses, Special Report of Diseases of,

printing of new edition ordered ; distribu-

tion ..

1425

regulations as to extra copies of documents

not applicable to ..

1013

Horton, Benjamin F.,

pension increased .

2765

Horton, Elisha G

pension increased.

2169

Horton, Henry,

pension increased.

2200

Horton, Julia A. (widow),

pension increased ...

2682

Hoskins, Levi,

pension increased..

2602

Hosley, William T.;

pension increased .

2174

Hospital Corps, Army,

appropriation for enlisted men; longev-

ity .

243 , 1161

Hospital, D. C., Army General, deficiency appropriation for constructing.. 32

Hospital, D. C., Tuberculosis, appropriation for erection, etc ....... 511, 1151

Hospital Matrons, Army, appropriation for.......

245, 1163

Hospitals, Army, appropriation for construction , etc. , post . for Fort D. A. Russell, Wyo .. for Columbus Barracks, Ohio .. tor Jefferson Barracks, Mo ..
for Fort Douglas, Utah.. for San Juan, P. R..
for Fort Mackenzie, Wyo .. for Whipple Barracks, Ariz . for Fort Riley, Kans ...

254 , 1171 255 255 255 1172 1172 1172 1172 1172

Hospitals , Army-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for Presidio, San Francisco,

Cal ....

1172

treatment of Navy and Marine Corps

at Fort Bayard , N. Mex..

1172

deficiency appropriation for construction ,

etc ...

646

Hospitals, Naval,
appropriation for public works at . for maintenance .
Hostetter, Edmund, pension increased ..

568 569, 1191
2387

Hot Springs, Ark. ,

appropriation for expenses, Army and

Navy Hospital ...

254, 1171

Hot Springs Reservation, Ark. ,

jurisdiction extended to any circuit court

commissioner.......

1218

line of changed ; land donated for street.. 198

Hot Springs, S. Dak., appropriation for sanitarium for volunteer

soldiers...

749, 1355

Battle Mountain Sanitarium Reserve es-

tablished..

83

Houck, Harmon ,

pension increased ....

2183

Hough, Claude,

deficiency appropriation for services, etc.,

Louisiana Purchase Exposition Com-

mission...

637

Hough, Samuel,

pension increased .

2034

Houghton, Hiram T. ,

pension increased ..

2322

Houlihan, Margaret L. (widow'),

pension increased..

2267

Hounsom, Horace,

pension increased..

1562

Hours of Labor, Railway Employees,

provisions applicable to interstate com-

mon carriers ..

1415

continuous duty longer than 16 hours un-

lawful ..

1416

off duty compulsory .

1416

telegraph train operators ; hours at day and

night. stations .

1416

at daytime stations..

1416

emergencies; extensions in special

cases ..

1416

penalty for violations ..

1416

prosecutions ..

1416

exceptions, casualties, etc ..

1416

wrecking or relief crews ..

1416

enforcement...

1417

in effect in one year..

1417

correction in enrollment of act .

2840

Housatonic River, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of...

1077

House, Alice (widow),

pension ....

2809

House, James L.,

pension increased..

2387

House of Detention, D. C., appropriation for expenses .

504, 1143

House of Representatives,

appropriation for compensation of Mem-

bers and Delegates...

392

and Commissioner from Porto Rico .. 938

for mileage..

392, 938

for Speaker's office ; Digest of Rules .. 392, 938

for Chaplain..

393, 938

for Clerk of the House , clerks , etc .... 393, 938

digest of private claims ..

393

for Chief Engineer, assistants , etc ..... 393, 939

3428

INDEX .

7392

House of Representatives Continued.

Page.

appropriation for clerks and messengers

to committees

393, 939

for janitors to committees ...

394, 940

for clerks to committees, session.. 394, 940

for Sergeant-at-Arms, deputy, etc

394, 940

for Doorkeeper, assistant, etc ..

394, 940

messengers, laborers, etc ..

394, 940

superintendent folding room, etc ... 395, 941

pages .

395, 941

for superintendent document room . 395, 941

special employees ..

395, 941

for Postmaster, assistant, etc.

396, 942

horses, mail wagons, etc.. for official reporters ..

396, 942 396, 942

for stenographers to committees .

396, 942

"during the session " to mean 119 days. 396

to mean 212 days...

942

for clerk hire, Members and Delegates . 396, 942

for contingent expenses, material for

folding.

396, 942

for fuel and oil..

396, 942

for furniture and repairs .

396, 942

for packing boxes ..

396, 942

for miscellaneous items ..

396, 942

for expenses, special and select commit-

tees ..

396, 942

for stationery.

397, 942

for postage stamps...

397, 942

for joint commission of Senate and , to report on second-class mail matter ... 477

for office building.

723, 1330

for furnishing.

1331

for heating, lighting, and power plant

for, etc...

1331

for maintenance of office building;

supervision, etc.

1365

for printing and binding.

759, 1366

deficiency appropriation for Sue Pinckney . 43

for Bertha J. Marsh....

43

for miscellaneous items from allotment

for special and select committees ... 43

for furniture and repairs..

44, 662

for folding materials .

44

for folding speeches .

44, 1397

for Fred G. Isell and John T. Hunt .

44

for Clerk's office ..

44

for Frank D. Koonce ..

48

for miscellaneous items ..

120, 662, 1396

for special and select committees 120, 662, 1396

for fuel and oil...

120, 1396

for extra month's pay to employees .. 660, 1394

for compensation of Members and Dele-

gates .... for stationery.

661, 1396 661

for Delegate from Alaska..

661

for contested election expenses..

661, 1396

for widows of deceased Members . 661 , 1396

for Doorkeeper's office ..

662

for Chaplain

" 662

for clerks of committees, Immigration

and Naturization , and Irrigation

of Arid Lands ....

662

for superintendent, document room

662

for compiling, etc. , contested election

cases ..

662

for L. .W. Bushey ..

662, 1397

for Harry West

662

for official reporters and stenographers 662, 1398

for special employee, Clerk's document

room ..

662

for superintendent, reporters ' gallery.

662

for additional clerk, Committee on Inter-

state and Foreign Commerce ....... 662

for assistant to file clerk.....

662

House of Representatives- Continued.

Page

deficiencyappropiation for machinist, heat-

ing, etc., department..

662

for clerk, Committee on Patents ..

662

for clerk, document room

662

certain employments abolished

663

for share of printing investigation ex-

penses

1394

for expenses joint committee, opening of

Jamestown Exposition...

1394

for clerk to Appropriations Committee,

additional ....

1396

for Commissioner from Porto Rico .

1396

for horse, etc. , Sergeant-at-Arms

1396

for E. P. Walker...

1397

for additional to employees authorized

by resolutions...

1397

appointment of three members on joint

immigration commission...

909

on joint postal commission ; duties . 1216

on Printing Investigation Commission ;

duties ..

1394

five members of Sixtieth Congress on

Joint Committee on Revision, etc.,

of the Laws ..

1423

Delegate from Hawaii, election proceed- ,

ings, etc...

550

election of Delegate from Alaska

169

employees to be paid December, 1905, sal-

aries December 20..

821

December, 1906, salaries December 20 .. 1418

joint committee authorized on proposed

additions to Rock Creek Park, D. C. 788

representation from Arizona ..

281

from Oklahoma..

271

salaries and labor to be paid from miscellaneous items of contingent expenses. 821

stationery, blanks, pertaining to legislation

to be furnished by Public Printer;

exception..

1013

Houston, A. J. ,

deficiency appropriation for contested

election expenses...

661

Houston, George T. and Frank B. ,

granted right of way over road to Vicksburg

National Cemetery, Miss ....

849

Houston, James M.,

pension increased ..

2648

Houston, Tex. ,

construction of public building authorized

at; cost..

787

appropriation for..

796, 1299

contracts authorized ; sale of present building when new one completed .. 787

Houston, William H.,

pension increased ..

1843

Hovious, Silas B.,

pension increased .

1440

Howard, David C.,

pension increased .

1844

Howard, Harriet (widow),

pension increased .....

2001

Howard, Isaac,

pension increased ..

2107

Howard, Isaac M. ,

pension increased .

1955

Howard, James F.,

pension increased.

1876

Howard, John W.,

pension increased .

2322

Howard, Loren H.,

pension increased .

1599

Howard, Martha (widow),

pension increased ..

1917

INDEX .

3429

Howard, Milton L., pension increased ..

Page. 2630

Howard, Miranda W. (widow),

pension increased..

2747

Howard, Thomas,

pension increased..

1725

Howard University, D. C.,
appropriation for maintenance for expenses..
taxes refunded .

731, 1338 731, 1339
869

Howardson, James,

pension increased ..

2391

Howe, George P.,

pension increased ..

1539

Howe, Jacob,

pension increased ..

2509

Howe, Jesse W.,

pension increased ..

1990

Howe, John W., pension increased..
Howe, Marion F., pension increased ..

2634 ... 1540

Howell, Eliza (widow),

pension increased ..

2478

Howell, Elizabeth C. (widow),

pension increased ..

1694

Howell, John T.,

pension increased..

1626

Howell, Mary M. (widow),

pension increased .

2731

Howell Post, G. A. R. , Woodbury, N. J., obsolete cannon donated to , for monument .
Howell, Maj. Seymour, payment to.
Howell, William W., pension increased ..

829 2308 1764

Howells, John J.,

pension increased .

2096

Howes, Edwin,

pension increased . ,

2013

Howland, Ora P.,

pension increased .

2152

Howry, Lucien B. ,

appointment as auditor, Court of Claims,

authorized ...

1390

Huachuca Forest Reserve, Ariz.,

proclamation establishing .

3255

Hubbard, Ada N. (daughter),

pension...

1777

Hubbard, Emily P. (widow),

pension increased .

2123

Hubbard, James F. ,

pension increased .

1636

Hubbard, William H.,

pension increased....

2699

Hubbell, William R. ,

pension increased.

1494

Hubbs, Warren P.,

pension increased .

2532

Iluddersfield, England,

classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire..

100 294, 924

Huddleson, H. P.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment .

1375

Hudgins, John,

payment to.

2310

Fudkins, James P.,

pension increased .

2357

Hudnell, Beverly, deficiency appropriation for extra services . 43

Hudson, Ann (widow),

pension increased ...

2747

Hudson, Elijah B., return from President requested of bill to pension...
Hudson, Eliza J. ( widow), pension increased...
Hudson, Hosea, pension increased..

Page. 2840 2184 2621

Hudson, James D. ,

pension increased..

1769

Hudson, N. Y.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ....

780

appropriation for..

793, 1299 .

Hudson River, N. Y.,

appropriation for lighting. for improvement of...

712, 1320 1078

preliminary examination to be made of

shoal off Stuyvesant Harbor .

1115

at Nyack, etc ...

1115

change of location of bridges, etc. , at New

York, on approval of Secretary of

War...

1119

Hudson, Thompson H. ,

pension increased ..

2462

Hudson, William D.,

pension increased.

2452

Huff, Cathrin (widow),

pension increased..

2258

Huff, Henry,

pension increased .

2507

Huff, William P. ,

pension increased .

2397

Huffman, Alex. O.,

pension increased .

2072

Hugh MacRae Company,

may dam Savannah River at Calhoun Falls 1240

Cherokee Shoals ..

1255

Hattons Ford .

1240

Trotters Shoals .

1241

Hughes, Adele Jeanette,

pension....

1849

Hughes, Anna E. (widow),

pension increased .

2413

Hughes, Eliza A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2532

Hughes, Henry C.,

pension increased ..

2632

Hughes, John J.,

pension increased ..

1681

Hughes, Roseanna (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2242

Hughes, Sterling,

pension increased ..

2034

Hughes, Thomas,

pension increased ..

1885

Hughes, William,

pension increased ..

1586

Hughes, William N.,

detail for service at military school legal-

ized .

2817

Hughs, Georgia A. (widow),

pension increased..

2036

Hughson, Edgar B.,

pension increased ..

1908

Hulbert, Helen H. (widow) ,

pension increased.......

1718

Hull, Andrew J. , alias Spencer J. Hull,

pension increased ..

1604

Hull, Charles,

pension increased ..

1719

Hull, England,

classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Hull, Henrietta (widow),

pension increased ....

2353

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -53

3430

INDEX.

Hull, John, pension increased....

Page. 1954

Hull, Mary M. (widow),

pension increased...

1557

Hull, Sarah E. (widow),

pension increased..

1857

Hulls, Inspectors of, abolished for district of Alaska, and ports of

Gallipolis, Ohio, and Wheeling, W.

Va ...

106

provided for Juneau and Saint Michaels, Alaska, and Point Pleasant, W. Va.. 106
Hulton Ferry, Pa. ,

bridge authorized across Allegheny River

from Oakmont to...

848

Humble, Henry,

pension increased ..

2428

Humboldt Bay, Cal.,

fog-signal directed at entrance to ....

323

appropriation for..

711

Humboldt, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

and bay....

1106

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made...

1112

Hummel, George Casper Homan, alias George

C. Homan,

pension increased .

2254

Humphrey, Delia S. (widow),

pension....

2482

Humphrey, John W.,

pension increased..

2399

Humphreys, Mary W. (widow) , pension increased..
Humrich, William A. , pension increased ..

2620 2151

Hungarian Reformed Federation of America, D.C. ,

incorporated, purposes, etc..

1226

Hungary (see Austria-Hungary) .

Hunnewell, Sumner F. ,

pension increased .

1715

Hunt, Douglas A.,

pension increased .

2191

Hunt, Henry F.,

pension increased ..

1486

Hunt, Hiram G.,

pension increased ...

2097

Hunt, Jennie R. (widow),

pension increased..

2599

Hunt, John T., deficiency appropriation for services ...... 44

Hunt, Lydia (widow),

pension increased ..

2792

Hunter, Albert M. ,

1 pension increased ..

1573

Hunter, Andrew J.,

pension increased ..

1858

Hunter, George B. ,

pension increased ..

1554

Hunter, Jonathan M. ,

pension increased ..

2193

Hunter, Samuel B.,

pension increased ..

2734

Hunting, D. C. , restrictions on, game birds and animals... 808

Huntington, James H.,

pension...

2741

Huntington, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1077

light station established ; discontinuance of

station at Lloyd Harbor..

995

deficiency appropriation for..

1393

Huntington, W. Va..

appropriation for public building .....

698

Huntley, Lorenzo D. , pension increased ..

Page. 1838

Hupojanjanwin, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Huron, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor....

738, 1094, 1345

00000000

Hurst, Elijah Thompson , alias Elijah Thomp-

son,

pension increased....

1443

Husband and Wife, D. C.,

punishment for failure to support, etc. ,

wife or child ..

86

weekly allowances, etc

87

prosecutions; evidence admitted

87

payment for labor if committed to work-

house ..

87

Husbrook, Artemesia T. (widow),

pension increased..

2005

Huse, Harry McL. P.,

may be appointed commander, Navy..... 892

Hussey, Calvin C.,

pension increased ..

2126

Hutcheson, Nancy Elizabeth (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2252

Hutchings, Kate S. (widow) ,

pension.

1954

Hutchins, Margaretta E. (widow),

pension increased..

2181

Hutchinson, James,

pension increased .

1709

Hutopawin, Indian Allottee, allotment patent may be canceled ..................... 361

Hyatt, Hester (widow),

pension...

2006

Hyatt, Joshua E.,

pension increased ..

2149

Hyatt, Wilson,

pension increased ..

1492

Hyde, George W. ,

pension increased ..

2120

Hyde, Phineas,

pension increased .

2219

Hydraulic Mining, California,

may be permitted without restraining

works, if not injurious to navigation . 1001

no tax on gross proceeds, if license is

granted .

1002

Hydrographic Office, Navy Department,

appropriation for engineers, draftsmen,

clerks, etc.

424, 969

for materials, etc.

424, 970

for Pilot Chart ..

424, 970

for Ourdan compass engraving machine . 424

for expenses, branch offices .

424, 970

for employees, branch offices.

970

for North Pacific Pilot Chart .

425, 970

restriction on expenditures for serv-

ices ...

425, 971

for printing and binding.

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for printing and

binding..

1398

Hygiene and Demography, International Con-

gress of,

invited to meet in Washington..

1422

Hygienic Laboratory,

appropriation for maintenance

709

I.

Iaukea, C. P., deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses..

661

Ice and Snow, D.C.,

appropriation for removing from cross-

walks and gutters ...

495, 1132

INDEX.

3431

Ice Machines, Army,

Page.

sale of product permitted ; use of pro-

ceeds ....

251, 1167

Icing Charges, schedules required of interstate carriers... 586

Ickes, William,

pension increased .

2149

Ickstadt, Joseph,

pension increased...

2736

Idaho,

appropriation for Indian service in.... 334, 1023

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in.......

335, 1023

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc.

435 , 980

for surveying boundary with Montana.. 726

deficiency appropriation for incidental

expenses, Indian service in...

38

for militia stores to marshal .

1389

Bear River Forest Reserve , Utah and , es-

tablished

3206

Big Hole Forest Reserve, Mont. and, en-

larged..

3281

· Bitter Root Forest Reserve, Mont. and ,

area modified .

3044

Cabinet Forest Reserve, Mont. and , es-

tablished...

3295

Caribou Forest Reserve, Wyo. and, estab-

lished ...

3267

Cassia Forest Reserve, established .

3099

Coeur d'Alène Forest Reserve , established . 3256

forest reserves not to be created or added to

in, except by act of Congress..

1271

Henrys Lake Forest Reserve , established . 3052

Kootenai Forest Reserve , Mont. and , lands

added to....

3253

homesteaders allowed leave of absence .. 1421

time to prove residence, etc. , in, ex-

tended .

1421

irrigation project for Fort Hall Indian Res-

ervation ..

1024

appropriation for purchase of land, etc.. 1025

lands granted Nez Perces County school

district No. 57 .

549

Lemhi Forest Reserve , established .

3248

owners of land adjoining Coeur d'Alene Reservation granted tracts to com-

plete entries.

1229

Palouse Forest Reserve , established .

3293

Payette Forest Reserve, established .

3067

Port Neuf Forest Reserve , established .

3292

Priest River Forest Reserve, Wash. and,

enlarged ....

3257, 3309

Raft River Forest Reserve, Utah and, es-

tablished ..

3247

Salmon River Forest Reserve, established . 3250

Sawtooth Forest Reserve, established ..

3058

enlarged

3260

University of, granted obsolete cannon , etc . 865

Weiser Forest Reserve, established .

3055

area enlarged.

3199

area modified

3294

Yellowstone Forest Reserve , enlarged .. 3049

Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyo . , Mont. ,

and , area modified

3291

Idaho Judicial District,

salary of district attorney .

754

marshal .......

753

Idiots,

admission of alien, excluded ..

898

importation of, unlawful ; penalty .

901

Ignas, Indian Allottee,

land patent to ; alienation

378

Ihrie, Laura B. (widow),

pension increased..

1938

Illinois,

Page.

bridge_authorized across Grand Calumet

River in...

1234

Illinois and Mississippi Canal,

appropriation for construction of ..................

738

Illinois Northern Judicial District,

appropriation for clerk of district court . 447, 992

salaries of district attorney and assistants .. 1360

Illinois River, Ill.,

appropriation for lighting..

713, 1320

for improvement of; snag boats ......... 1102

Copperas Creek to La Salle .

1102

Illinois Southern Judicial District,

additional term of court, at Quincy...

882

Imbeciles,

admission of alien , excluded .

898

importation of, unlawful; penalty..

901

Immediate Transportation of Dutiable Goods,

privileges granted to Bellingham, Wash. ,

delivery..

84

Brunswick, Ga. , entry..

880

Buffalo, N. Y., entry..

168

Oswego, N. Y. , delivery

199

Sabine, Tex., delivery.

303

Spokane, Wash. , delivery .

168

Superior, Wis. , delivery .

631

Immigrant Fund,

money collected from head tax, fines, etc.,

to constitute ...

898 4

disposition of ; maximum .

898

Immigrant Inspectors, etc.,

appointment, salaries, etc..

906,

special employees ; fund for expenses ,

etc ..

906

of commissioners at the several ports not

changed ..

906

powers to take testimony, etc.

906

false statements before, deemed perjury

906

decisions favorable to alien's entry subject

to challenge .

906

board of special inquiry to make final de-

cision .

906

composition, hearings, etc

906

appeals; restriction ....

907

Immigrant Stations,

appropriation for Ellis Island , N. Y

1317

for -construction of, at Charleston , S. ( .. 1415

1 at Galveston, Tex ..

1412

at New Orleans , La.

1409

deficiency appropriation for Ellis Island ,

N.Y ..

842

jurisdiction of local courts in criminal

cases ..

907

Immigration,

appropriation for enforcing Chinese exclu-

sion...

722, 1329

Immigration Act,

head tax on aliens entering United States

increased ..

898

payment: to constitute 'immigrant

fund".

898

use of fund; tax to be a lien

898

persons excepted .....

898

collection from contiguous foreign terri-

tory...

898

maximum immigrant fund .

898

insular possessions restrictions ..

898

recognition of foreign passports refused

in certain cases

898

classes of aliens excluded .

898

exceptions; political offenses, skilled labor, professions, and servants.... 899

importing females for prostitution forbidden; punishment ; deportation ..... 899

3432

INDEX.

Immigration Act-Continued ..

Page.

importing contract labor prohibited ; ex-

ceptions..

900

penalties .

900

advertising to encourage, prohibited...

900

offers of States, etc. , excepted .

900

soliciting by vessel owners, etc. , prohib-

ited; penalties...

900

punishment for illegally landing, etc. ,

aliens .

900

admission of aliens subject to certain disa-

bilities forbidden; fines for viola-

tion, etc...

901

rejection by board of special inquiry,

final ..

901

return of alien accompanying a rejected

helpless alien..

901

lists of alien passengers arriving required

from master of vessel ; contents

901

departing; disposition...

902

from insular possessions..

902

'designation for identification; verifica-

tion ...

902

medical examination and certificate..

903

penalty for failure to deliver, etc ...

903

inspection and medical examination, on

arrival...

903

punishment for permitting illegal landing . 904

return of aliens illegally landed ; charges,

etc ...

904

detention to use as witnesses ; expenses . 904

delay for treatment in insane cases .

904

deportation within three years if illegally

entered, etc.; hearings..

904

if found in violation of this act .

905

penalty for refusal by shipping owners .. 905 providing attendant in certain cases... 905

duties of Commissioner-General of Immi-

gration ....

.905

commissioners of immigration..

906

immigrant inspectors, etc.; special em-

ployees..

906

board of special inquiry to determine right

of alien to land .

906

composition; hearings , decisions, and

appeals....

906

acceptance of bond that alien will not be-

come a public charge.

907

consent of court to compromise suits .

907

pending suits not affected...

907

concurrent jurisdiction of circuit and dis-

trict courts .....

907

immigrant station privileges, disposal of.. 907

sale of liquors forbidden; receipts .

907

local courts given jurisdiction..

908

rules for entry of aliens from Canada and

Mexico....

908

construction of term " United States; "

Canal Zone provisions ..

908

commissioner of immigration authorized at

New Orleans, La ....

908

ports to which illegally entered aliens shall

be returned...

908

deportation for illegal entries by land , etc. 908

detention of aliens ' families if arriving with

contagious disease....

908

anarchists, etc. , not permitted to enter..

908

penalties for assisting, etc. , entry of..... 909

joint immigration commission authorized . 909

composition, powers, etc ....

909

international conference authorized; scope. 909

information division established , duties,

etc.....

909

cooperation with immigration agents of

States, etc..

909

Immigration Act-Continued.

Page.

foreign officials, etc. , not included in pro-

visions of this act .

910

emigrant passengers, space, etc., required

on steam vessels..

910

on sailing vessels...

910

penalty for violations .

910

in effect January 1 , 1909 .

911

repeal provisions; exceptions .

911

to take effect July 1, 1907 ; exceptions.

911

Hon. Jacob Ruppert, jr., permitted to sign

conference report on

2839

Immigration Agents, State, etc.,

allowed access, etc. , to aliens at immigrant

stations ...

910

Immigration and Naturalization Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner-General ,

clerks, etc...

990

for salaries, naturalization division.... 1329

for information division, additional as-

sistants, etc.; estimates....

1329

additional duties, in charge of naturaliza-

tion of aliens ...

596

records of aliens arriving to be kept at im-

migrant stations ..

596

certificate to immigrants..

596

additional offices, employees, etc..

596

provisions for naturalization of aliens..

596

information division authorized ; duties .

909

publication of statistics, etc..

910

cooperation with State immigration

agents, etc...

910

Immigration Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner-General,

clerks, etc...

445

for Angel Island station, Cal ..

710

name changed to Bureau of Immigration

and Naturalization....

596

Immigration, Commissioner-General of,

appropriation for, clerks, etc ...

445, 990

general duties and authority of..

905

to detail officers to secure information as to

aliens in penal institutions, etc ...

905

for temporary foreign service ...

905

Immigration Commissioners,

duties of..

906

mode of appointment , etc.; status un-

changed .

906

boards of special inquiry to be appointed

by..

906

may be appointed at New Orleans, La ..... 908

Immigration, Joint Commission,

created, composition ..

909

duties and powers..

909

report; expenses..

909

Immunity of Witnesses, in antitrust, interstate commerce, etc. , cases, limited to natural persons .... 798
Imnaha Forest Reserve, Oreg.,.

proclamation establishing, in place of

Wallowa and Chesnimnus ...

3284

Incapacitated Persons,

appropriations for salaries not available for

permanently..

448, 993

payment to, in postal service, forbidden . 447, 1217

Incorporations, D. C. (see also Corporations),

American Cross of Honor .....

161

Archæological Institute of America..

203

Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement

of Teaching..

59

Convention of Episcopal Church, Diocese

of Washington, powers, etc. , ex-

tended ......

875

INDEX.

3433

Incorporations, D. C. - Continued . Edes Home .. Great Council of the United States, Im-
proved Order of Red Men.. Hungarian Reformed Federation . Lake Erie and Ohio River Ship Canal
Company.. International Sunday School Association . Masonic and Eastern Star Home, new
name for Eastern Star Home.. National Child Labor Committee.. National Education Association of the
United States.. National German-American Alliance..
National Safe Deposit, Savings and Trust
Company, name changed.... National Society, Sons of the American
Revolution... Increase of the Navy (see Naval Establish-

Page. 162
117 1226
809 867
92 914
804 928
868
227

Indian Department-Continued.

Page.

under the President ...

325, 1015 .

appropriation for allotments in sever-

alty.. mission schools

on

reservations

to

r3e-25,

1015

ceive rations, etc. , of pupils .

326

alienation restrictions continued ..

326

not applicable to Indian Territory.. 326

under the Secretary of the Interior

326, 1015

supplies to be advertised for...

326, 1015

exigencies; irrigation expenses ; Indian

labor and supplies .

326, 1015

diversion of surplus funds for subsist-

ence; report .

326, 1016

stock cattle purchases ; treaty funds

excluded .

326, 1016

cattle to allottees, Sioux Reservation. 326

extension to settlers on ceded reserva-

ment) . Indecent Exposure, D. C.,
penalty for, increased. Independence Forest Reserve, Nev. ,

tions, Minnesota .

326

transfer of funds for employees .

326, 1016

127

rejection of unsatisfactory bids .

327, 1016

amount for supplies immediately avail-

proclamation establishing. Independence, Mo. ,

3251

able....

transfer of unused property .

327, 1016 1016

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

783

appropriation for,

795

Independent Treasury,

appropriation for salaries, assistant treas-

urer's offices ... for special agents, etc ..

411, 958 413, 960

for paper for checks... for contingent expenses..

413, 960 706, 1312

deficiency appropriation for paper for

checks, etc.

31

for examinations, etc.

1373

allotments not liable for debts prior to

fee-simple title ..

327

moneys held in trust not liable to debts

during trust period .

327

interest to be paid on moneys withheld

from minors...

327

sales of trust lands within reclamation

project; proceeds,.

327

under Commissioner of Indian Affairs .. 328, 1016

payment of taxes from funds due Indians . 1016

appropriation for irrigation expenses; ex-

for contingent expenses.

1373

Index to Statutes at Large, New,

deficiency appropriation for expediting

perts ....

328, 1017

for surveys and allotments.

328, 1017

report on tuberculosis sanitarium .

328

preparation of..

1399

designation of Indian Reform School.. 328

to be printed, etc. , similar to regular vol-

annual report modified .....

328

umes of Statutes..

1398

names of employees not required .

328

Indexes ofLau's,

for suppressing liquor traffic..

328, 1017

appropriation for preparation of, for Con-

amount for Indian Territory and Okla-

gress, etc. Indian Affairs, Commissioner of

753, 946

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc .. 430, 976 deficiency appropriation for private secre-

tary .

36

annual report modified; requirement for

list of all employees repealed

328

may detail clerks for special investigations ;

expenses .

1018

to designate, etc. , Indian Reform School . 328

to report on sanitarium for treating tuber-

homa ..
for support of schools . suppressing liquor traffic ..
for construction , etc. , of buildings ... for collecting and transporting pupils.
employment for pupils . expenditures under Commissioner. maximum per pupil ; allotment tuition of white children .
investigations by clerks. lands of noncompetent Indians.

328
329, 1017 1017
329, 1017 329, 1017 329, 1017 329, 1017 329, 1018
1018 1018 . : 1018

culosis among Indians....

328

Indian Agencies,

appropriation for buildings, etc ........ 329, 1018

Indian Agents,

salaries not available for army officers.. 332, 1020

for purchasing supplies, etc... for transporting supplies, etc. for warehouses .
for agency buildings, repairs, etc. for vaccination.....

329, 1018 329, 1018 329, 1018 329, 1018 330, 1018

school superintendents may act as; addi-

tional pay .

332, 1020

printing in schools .

330, 1018

rights of way for railroads, addition for

Indian Commission, Citizen,

stations, etc....

330

appropriation for expenses.

330, 1019 general officers, employees, etc

330, 1019

Indian Courts,

appropriation for citizen commission . 330, 1019

appropriation for judges ... Indian Department,

331, 1020

appropriation for Commissioner, assistant,

clerks, etc..

430, 976

for clerks, removing restrictions, Five

Civilized Tribes .

976

for expenses of the..

325, 1015

for inspectors; expenses.

330, 1019

chief irrigation engineer .

330, 1019

forsuperintendent of schools ; expense3.330.1019

for interpreters ; restriction . for Indian police ..

331, 1019 331, 1019

for matrons, etc.

331, 1019

for additional farmers and stockmen . 331, 1020

for judges, Indian courts .

331, 1020

3434

INDEX.

Indian Department-- Continued.

Page.

general officers, employees, etc. -- Continued .

appropriation for contingencies ; special

agents ....

331, 1020

allowance for agents not available for

army officers ..

332, 1020

school superintendents may act as

agents ; pay..

332, 1020

for Indian Service, Arizona.

332, 1021

for agent San Carlos Agency.

332, 1021

for support, etc., Apachés , etc. , New

Mexico and Arizona .

332, 1021

allotments to Moquis .

1021

Pima Agency Indians .

332, 1021

for school, Fort Mojave .

332, 1021

Phoenix ...

332, 1021

issue of cadet rifles .

1021

Truxton Canyon.. for incidentals ....

332, 1021 332, 1021

for irrigation of Pima Indian lands ; ap-

portionment of cost..

333

transfer of funds ...

1022

for Indian Service, California ..

333, 1022

for support, etc. , Mission Indians.. 333, 1022

Northern Indians ....

333, 1022

for school, Riverside, Sherman Insti-

tute

333, 1022

for incidentals ..

333, 1022

Round Valley reservations, removing

obstructions; payment for lands .. 333, 1022

Mission Indians, patents to

1022

for agricultural lands for Indians ; irriga-

tion rights, etc.

333

for Indian Service, Colorado ..

334, 1023

for school, Fort Lewis ..

334, 1023

Grand Junction..

334, 1023

for incidentals ...

334, 1023

for Indian Service, Idaho ..

334, 1023

for superintendent, Coeur d'Alene Res-

ervation...

334, 1023

for support, etc. , Fort Hall Indians .. 334, 1023

forsupport, etc. , Lemhi Agency Indians . 334

leases by Nez Perces ...

334

for surveys, Lemhi and Fort Hall reser-

vations; irrigation , etc ..

334

opening of ceded portion of Lembi

Reservation ..

334

for incidentals .... for fulfilling treaty, Bannocks .
Coeur d'Alenes ... opening unallotted lands of.
Fort Hall Indians...
Lemhi Agency Indians.. for irrigation reservoir lands, Fort
Reservation .

335, 1023 335, 1023 335, 1024
335 338, 1024
1024
Hall 1024

for Indian Service, Indian Territory . 338, 1025

for agent, Union Agency.

338, 1025

for Union Agency, special clerical force ·

on town sites..

338, 1025

for sale and leasing, Creek and Cherokee

lands ....

338

for leasing, sale, etc. , lands ; Five Civi-

lized Tribes ...

1025

reservation for churches and schools,

Choctaw and Chickasaw freedmen . 338

cemeteries ...

338

additional Choctaw coal lands re-

served; payment by lessors ..

338

for Toney E. Proctor..

339

for removing intruders, etc. , Five Civi-

lized Tribes ...

339, 1025

for care of orphan children, Whittaker

Home ..

339

for removing alienation restrictions ;

clerks ..

339, 1025

Indian Department-Continued .

Page.

general officers, employees, etc. -Continued.

appropriation for suppressing smallpox ,

1900 ......

339

for suppressing smallpox, 1901 . for incidentals ...

1025 339, 1025

for highways, Creek and Cherokee lands . 339

for inspector's office..... for investigation of leases.......

339, 1026 339, 1026

transfer of court records, etc., to State

officials ...

1026

notice of leases..

1026

care of orphan children .

1026

for tribal schools , Five Civilized

Tribes .....

340, 1026

payment to attorneys in claims of Cherokee intermarried whites ..... 340

for completing work of Commission to

Five Civilized Tribes ..

340, 1026

access to records ....

1027

additions to Choctaw, Chickasaw, and

Cherokee rolls ...

340

permanent record of approved rolls ; penalty for illegal copying, etc ..... 340
enrollment of Mississippi Choctaws .. 341

for fulfilling treaties with Choctaws .. 341 , 1027

land for Old Goodland school...

341

Five Civilized Tribes, enrollment ap-

plications restricted ....

341

safe of tribal buildings, etc.,deferred . 342

new recording districts created ..... 342

McAlester, additional bonds ...

1027

alienation restriction removed , Nocus

Fixico ....

1028

suits by Cherokees authorized

.1028

for fulfilling treaty with Quapaws .... 344, 1028

alienation permitted Leander J. Fish.. 344

claim of Joseph P. T. Fish ...

344

for fulfilling treaties with Seminoles .. 344, 1029 for.C. W. Turner, from Creek funds.... 344

for State National Bank, Denison , Tex .

from Chickasaw funds...

345

ex-employees not to practice before Commissioner to Five Civilized

Tribes ....

345

Cherokee Advocate continued .

345

claim of Peter P. Pitchlynn's heirs

against Choctaws...

345

alienation restriction removed, Wyatt

S. Hawkins ....

345

certain Cherokee allottees ..

345

certain Creek allottees ..

-346

fee-simple patents to Maynard C.

Armstrong and others...

346

for investigating Choctaw and Chicka-

saw coal deposits..

346

for care of insane persons; Indians at

Canton, Nebr..

346, 1029

sale by heirs of Mathias Splitlog .

1029

for Indian Service, Iowa ..

347, 1029

for school , Sac and Fox Reservation .. 347, 1029

for Indian Service , Kansas ...

347, 1029

for school , Lawrence, Haskell Institute 347, 1029

Kickapoo Reservation ....

347, 1029

for fulfilling treaties with Iowas .

347, 1030

Kickapoos ..

347, 1030

Pottawatomies .

347, 1030

Sacs and Foxes of the Missouri . 348, 1031

sale, etc., Wyandotte cemetery, Kan-

sas City, Kans ...

348

fee-simple patents to Sac and Fox and Iowa allottees, Kans. and Nebr. 349

allotment of surplus lands to Sac and

Fox children ....

349

INDEX .

3435

Indian Department--Continued .

Page.

general officers, employees, etc. - Continued . appropriation for fulfilling treaties with
Iowas- Continued.

alienation restrictions removed from

certain Sac and Fox allottees..

349

sale by Rachel Cross ...

1031

for Indian Service, Michigan .

349, 1031

for school, Mount Pleasant.

349, 1031

for Margaret Bushman..

349

transfer of patent to Charles Beneche.. 349

for Indian Service, Minnesota..

349, 1032

for agent, Leech Lake Agency ..

349, 1032

White Earth Agency...

349, 1032

town site, White Earth Reservation ... 1032

for school, Morris ..

350, 1032

Pipestone...

350, 1033

for fulfilling treaties with Chippewas of

the Mississippi ....

350, 1033

for advance interest to Chippewas in

Minnesota..

350, 1033

entries on drainage lands .

1033

for civilization, etc. , of Chippewas... 350, 1033

alienation restrictions removed .

1034

payment for annual celebration ..

1034

for Martha A. Allen....

350

for Thomas Le Blanc's heirs...

350

alienation restriction removed, James

I. Coffey .

351

for D. C. Lightbourn and George D.

Hamilton..

351

for Charles H. Armstrong.

351

for Alice Fairbanks Mee..

351

for return of excess to purchasers of pine

timber ...

351

for logging superintendent and assist-

ants ..

351

preserving timber on Chippewas of Mississippi Reservation ; sale of

wood and hay; proceeds..

351

grant of Cooper Island for State forest.

reserve or park..........

352

for drainage survey, etc., Chippewa

lands ..

352

removal of alienation restriction, allotments in White Earth Reservation .. 353

for Indian Service , Montana ..

353, 1034

for agent, Blackfeet Agency.

353, 1034

Crow Agency..

353, 1034

Flathead Agency..

353, 1034

for allotting, etc. , Flathead Reservation

lands ...

1034

for support, etc. , Fort Belknap Agency

Indians ..

353, 1034

leases for beet, etc. , culture ..

1034

Crow Indians ..

353, 1034

Flathead Agency Indians ..

353, 1034

Fort Peck Agency Indians .

353, 1034

for incidentals ..

353, 1034

for fulfilling treaty with Blackfeet

Agency Indians..

353

for fulfilling treaty with Crows ..

353, 1034

northern Cheyennes and Arapahoes . 354, 1035

for cattle for Indians, Northern Cheyenne

Reservation...

354

opening Flathead Reservation, town-

site provisions .

354

Camas hot springs .

355

water rights.....

355

for town-site expenses, Flathead Reser-

vation ....

355

for irrigation, Tongue River Reservation . 1035

survey, etc. , opening Blackfeet Reser-

vation ..

1035

Indian Department-Continued .

Page.

general officers, employees, etc.- Continued.

appropriation for Indian Service , Ne-

braska ..

355, 1039

for school, Genoa .

355, 1039

forfulfilling treaties with Winnebagoes 355, 1040

for payment to Santee Sioux and Poncas

from Sioux fund ..

356

shares of minors, etc. , in certain trust funds may be paid guardians ....... 356

fee-simple patents to certain allottees;

restrictions removed...

356

for Indian Service , Nevada . for support, etc., Western
Agency Indians .. for school, Carson.. for incidentals ..

358, 1040 Shoshone
358, 1040 358, 1040 358, 1040

for timber lands reserved for Indians of

Walker River Reservation..

358

for land for Pah Utes ....

358

for Indian Service, New Mexico .. for school, Albuquerque...
Santa Fe... for attorney, Pueblo Indians ..

358, 1040 358, 1040 358, 1040 359, 1041

for additional building, Santa school..
for incidentals . for Zuni dam, etc.... for Indian Service, New York.. for agent, New York Agency.. for physician, New York Agency. for annuity, etc. , Senecas ..

Fe 359
359, 1041 359, 1041 359, 1041 359, 104 359, 1041 359, 1041

for fulfilling treaty with Six Nations . 359, 1041

for Indian Service, North Carolina... 359, 1041

for school, Cherokee..

359, 1041

for Indian Service, North Dakota.. 360, 1041

for agent, Standing Rock Agency ... 360, 1041

allotment of timber lands...

1041

for support, etc. , Sioux , of Devils

Lake..

360, 1042

Fort Berthold Agency Indians. 360, 1042

Turtle Mountain Band of Chippe-

was ...

360, 1042

for school, Fort Totten..

360, 1042

Wahpeton

360, 1042

for incidentals ..

360, 1042

for payment of deficit to Devils Lake

Sioux .

360

Grahams Island restored to public

domain ; allotment to Indians..

360

for surveys Standing Rock Reservation.. 361

for water for Bismarck school ...

361

alienation restrictions removed , cer-

tain Devils Lake allottees...

361

cancellation of certain allotments

Devils Lake Reservation...

361

for Indian Service, Oklahoma .

361, 1043

for agent, Kiowa Agency..

361, 1043

Osage Agency..

$61, 1043

for support, etc. , Apaches, etc.

361, 1043

Cheyennes and Arapahoes..

362, 1043

Kansas Indians ..

362, 1043

Kickapoos .

362, 1043

Poncas ..

362, 1043

for school, Chilocco ..

362, 1043

lease permitted .

362

sale of lands authorized , for Shawnee

school..

362

for fulfilling treaty with Iowas ; install-

ments anticipated ...

362

for payment to Kicking Mexican Kick-

apoos .

362

alienation strictions removed from

nonresident, Kickapoo, etc. , allot-

tees .

363

3436

INDEX.

Indian Department-Continued .

Page. Indian Department-Continued.

Page.

general officers, employees, etc .--Continued .

general officers, employecs, etc. --Continued .

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with

Osages

363, 1043

1 Pawnees..

363, 1044

park, etc. , to Pawnee..

1044

appropriation for allotments , Sioux Reser-

vation- Continued .

alienation restrictions removed to sell

for town-site purposes..

373

Sacs and Foxes of the Mississippi .. 363, 1045

additional payment...

363

certain Yankton Sioux allotments to be

investigated ...

373

west boundary of Creek Nation de-

clared ...

364

conveyance by Emma Saunty per-

mitted !...

364

restrictions removed from allotment to

? Angelique Dupuis...

373

fee-simple patents to certain allottees. 373

for payment to certain Sioux of Pine

patents to heirs of Victoria Hardy. certain patents canceled ...

364

Ridge Agency..

364

for Indian Service , Utah..

374 375, 1049

restrictions on certain allotments, re-

moved ...

365

for agent, Uintah and Ouray Agency . 375, 1049 sale to Utah and Eastern Copper Com-

allotments to missions and churches ;

payment....

365

fee-simple patents to certain allottees . 365

pany, lands of Shebits .. for school , Panguitch.. for incidentals ..

375 375, 1049 375, 1049

claim of Vann and Adair against

Osages ...

365

for payment for travel of Otoe and Mis-

sourias..

366

for irrigating Uintah Reservation ; con-

ditions ..

375, 1049

for fulfilling treaties with confederated

bands of Utes ..

376, 1049

for Lorenzo A. Bailey .

366

recording mining claims Wasatch

limit of credit to sages by traders in-

creased..

366

for Indian Service, Oregon ..

366, 1045

for support, etc. , Klamath Agency

Indians..

366, 1045

County.

376

sale of timber, Uintah Reservation ..

376

for lands, etc., San Juan Pah Utes ..

376

for support, etc. , Kaibabs..

376

for Piute Indians ...

1049

Warm Springs Agency Indians . Umatilla Agency Indians ..

367, 1045 367, 1045

for Indian Service, Virginia .. for school , Hampton...

376, 1050 376, 1050

cession of- part of Klamath Reserva-

tion ...

367

exchange of lands..

368

for school, Salem ..

369, 1045

for incidentals ..

369, 1045

for Indian Service, Washington ..

377, 1050

for Indian agent at Colville Agency .. 377 , 1050

for support, etc., D'Wamish, etc. ,

tribes ..

377, 1050

Tulalip Reservation Indians .

1050

for lands for John Smith and Jane Isaac . 1045

Makahs ...

377, 1050

for fulfilling treaty with Molels ....... 369, 1045

claims of Chinook and Chehalis In-

dians ..

369

Qui- nai- elts and Quil- leh-utes . Yakima Agency Indians .. for incidentals..

377, 1050 377, 1050 377, 1050

permission to cross Umatilla Reserva-

tion..

369

for Indian Service, Pennsylvania . 369, 1046

sale of land to Tacoma permitted .

1050

sale of lands Puyallup school ; pro-

ceeds for industrial school..

377

for school, Carlisle...

369, 1046

for Indian Service, South Dakota ... 369, 1046

for fulfilling treaty with Spokanes .. 377, 1050 for support, etc. , Joseph's band of Nez

for agents, Cheyenne River Agency . 369, 1046

Crow Creek Agency ..

369, 1046

Perces.. for irrigation , lands of Yakimas.

377, 1050 377, 1050

Lower Brule Agency . Pine Ridge Agency. Rosebud Agency.. Sisseton Agency. Yankton Agency.

369, 1046 369, 1046 369, 1046 370, 1046 370, 1046

sale of town-site tract Spokane Reser-

vation .....

377

for purchase of ceded portion of Colville ,

Reservation ; compensation to attor-

neys .

377

for buildings and water supply at agen-

cies ...

1046

for partial payment for ceded lands Col-

ville Reservation ..

1050

for school, Chamberlain .. Flandreau.. Pierre .

370, 1046 370, 1046 370. 1046

patent to Ignas ; sale .

378

fee-simple patents to certain Indian

allottees..

378

Rapid City for incidentals ..

370, 1047 370, 1047

rights of way to railroads in Standing

Rock Reservation ..

1047

for Indian Service , Wisconsin.......

379, 1051

for Indian agent at La Pointe Agency . 379, 1051

for school , Hayward ..

379, 1051

Tomah ....

379, 1051

for Jane E. Waldron ..

1047

for support, etc. , Chippewas of Lake

for fulfilling treaties with Sioux of differ-

ent tribes...

371, 1047

Superior...

380, 1051

Potawatomie claims to be investigated . 380

Yankton Sioux .. for insane asylum , Canton ..

371 , 1048 371 , 1048

fee-simple patents to certain Öneida

allottees ...

380

for artesian wells, Yankton Reservation . 371

for surveys, Pine Ridge Reservation .. 371 , 1048

claim of Sisseton and Wahpeton Sioux

for forfeited annuities....

372

fee-simple patents may issue to In-

dians of Oneida Reservation ..

381

for printing for Ann Francis ..

381

available for clerk's costs ..

656

for allotments, Sioux Reservation .. 372, 1048

allotments to women....

1049

allowance in accounts of James Staley. 372

conveyance by Yuhunhunzewin per-

mitted ..

372

town site for La Pointe Indians ; ceme-

tery ....

381

allotment to Stockbridge and Munsee

tribe ...

382

for Indian Service , Wyoming ..

383, 1051

INDEX .

3437

Indian Department--Continued .

Page.

general officers, employees , etc. -Continued .

appropriation for support, etc. , of Sho-

shones

383, 1051

for school, Shoshone Reservation .. 383, 1051

for incidentals ....

384, 1051

for fulfilling treaty with Shoshones ... 384, 1051

for irrigation, Wind River Reserva-

tion ...

384, 1052

for surveys, etc.

1052

lease for sanatorium .

1052

deficiency appropriation for irrigation

engineer..

38, 1389

for purchasing supplies, etc... 38 , 654, 667, 1389

for transporting supplies..

38 ,

47, 655, 667, 669, 1389, 1403, 1405

for schools, Western Navajo, Ariz. , and

Zuni , N. Mex ..

38

Grand Junction , Colo ..

38

Flandreau , S. Dak.

38

for incidentals , Idaho .

38

Indian Territory.

38, 39

Montana...

38, 655

South Dakota.

38

Utah .....

38, 655

for removing intruders, etc ..

39

for sale, etc., Creek and Cherokee lands.. 39

for expenses, Union Agency..

39

for removing alienation restrictions,

Five Civilized Tribes...

39

for completing work of Commission to

Five Civilized Tribes....

39

for town-site commissioners, Indian Ter-

ritory.... for irrigation expenses..

39, 655 39.

for insane asylum, Canton , S. Dak..

39

for Sioux of different tribes ..

47, 667, 1403

for Utes, confederated bands .

47

for Apaches, etc. , Arizona and New

Mexico ....

47

for opening certain reservations .

205

for incidentals, California ..

655

for expenses superintendents ...

655

for expenses agents, Crow, etc. , agencies . 655

for additional supplies, etc.

655

for incidentals, New Mexico ..

655

for subsistence, indigent Indians, etc.

655

for Chippewas in Minnesota ..

655

for school , Chilocco, Okla ..

655

Carlisle, Pa....

655

Riverside, Cal..

655

for Edgar Smith .

656

for school transportation..

667

for investigating Indian depredation

claims ...

669

for Commissioner to Five Civilized

Tribes ..

842

for councilors, etc. , Eastern Cherokees .. 1388

for support, etc., Pawnees,.

1403

for surveys Pine Ridge and Standing

Rock reservations ..

1403

Indian Depredation Claims, appropriation for defense in ..

75°, 1358

deficiency appropriation for defense in . 40, 48

for paying judgments in..

44, 664, 1400

for investigating..

669

Indian Farmers and Stockmen,

appropriation for...

331. 1020

indian Funds,

held in trust from sales, not liable for debts ,

etc., during trust period ..............

327

Indian Head, Md. , Naval Proving Ground,

appropriation for public works..

567, 1190

Indian Inspectors,

Page.

appropriation for pay; expenses .

330, 1019

deficiency appropriation for irrigation

engineer.

38, 1389

salary of chief irrigation engineer .

330

Indian Intercourse Acts,

appropriation for punishing violations of. 752, 1358

Indian Interpreters, appropriation for pay; restriction ...... 331 , 1019

Indian Matrons,

appropriation for pay, etc.....

331 , 1019

Indian Office,

appropriation for Commissioner, assistant,

clerks, etc..

430, 976

deficiency appropriation for chief clerk.... 653

Indian Police,

appropriation for pay, etc..........

331 , 1019

Indian Pupils,

appropriation for support , etc. , of...... 329, 1017

for transporting, etc...

329, 1017

for securing employment in industrial

pursuits

329, 1017

Indian Reform School,

to be selected; regulations, etc.

328

Indian Reservations,

appropriation for completing allotments in

severalty ..

325, 1015

for irrigation expenses..

328, 1017

for surveying and allotting..

328, 1017

for expenses of opening ceded lands ; re-

imbursable from sales....

1333

deficiency appropriation for irrigation ex-

penses ..

39

for opening to entry ceded portion of

Crow, Mont......

205

for opening ceded lands on Flathead , Mont..
Yakima, Wash. Shoshone, Wyo . for surveys, Walker River. Uintah and White River Utes .
Spokane for removal of Lemhis to.
Coeur d'Alene, Idaho , sales to adjoining owners ..
Columbia and Colville, Wash . , trust patents to allottees..
Colville, Wash. , allotment and sale of diminished ..
Crow, Mont. , proclamation opening ceded lands to entry.....
Flathead , Mont. , town-site provisions .. Jicarilla, N. Mex. , sale of timber.
trust allotments, etc. , of relinquished titles .
Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache , Okla . , town sites...

205 205 205 654 654 654 730
1229
55
80
3200 354 91
1413
80

pasture and wood reserves, opened to

entry...

213

preference to settlers ..

550

Klamath , Oreg., cession of portion...

367

La Pointe or Bad River, Wis. , allotments to

Indians on...

1217

town site for Indians ..

381

Lemhi , Idaho, opening of ceded lands ..

334

Lower Brulé, S. Dak. , sale , etc. , of portion. 124

Menominee, Wis., sale, etc. , of timber per-

mitted .

547

Osage, Okla., division of..

539

Rosebud, S. - Dak., part of unallotted lands

open to entry..

1230

3438

INDEX.

Indian Reservations- Continued.
Shoshone and Arapaho, Wyo. , land laws extended to ceded ..
proclamation opening ceded lands to entry...
directing entries to be made at Shoshoni
time extended for opening..

Page. 78
3208 3222
825

Uintah, Utah, proclamation opening unal-

lotted lands to entry...

3019

Umatilla, Oreg. , patents to purchasers of

grazing lands..

611

Uncompahgre, Utah, proclamation offering asphaltum, etc. , lands for sale .............. 3214

Walker River, Nev. , proclamation opening

ceded lands to entry .

3237

White Earth , Minn.; alienation restrictions

removed ..

353

Yakima, Wash. , entries prior to December, 21 , 1904, on ceded lands, confirmed . 1420

irrigable lands subject to entry under re-

clamation act ...

53

extension of time for payment of homesteaders on ceded, in Minnesota .... 326

Indian River, Fla.,
appropriation for lighting. for improvement of...

713, 1320 1086

Indian Schools,

appropriation for support of.

329, 1017

for buildings, etc.......

329, 1017

for transporting pupils ..

329, 1017

for superintendent; expenses; otherJdu-

ties ...

330, 1019

for tribal schools Five Civilized Tribes 340, 1026

deficiency appropriation for transportation. 667

supervision of expenditures...

329, 1017

determination ofper capita allowance . 329, 1017

limit of expense per capita ; exception . 329, 1018

admission of white pupils; tuition fees.... 1018

official printing permitted by.. ..... 330, 1018

reform school to be designated

328

Indian Supplies,

appropriation for purchasing, transporta-

tion, etc..

329, 1018

for warehouses...

329, 1018

deficiency appropriation for purchasing... 38, 654, 667, 1389

for transporting .

38,

47, 655, 667, 669, 1389, 1403, 1405

to be purchased after advertisement ... 326, 1015

open-market purchases; exigencies .. irrigation expenses... purchases, etc., from Indians..

326, 1015 326, 1015 326, 1015

diversion of subsistence funds ; report .. 326, 1016

rejection of bids; temporary purchases

327

amount for, immediately available; deliv-

ery ...

327, 1016

Indian Territory (see also Five Civilized

Tribes, and Oklahoma , State of) ,

appropriation for suppressing liquor traffic . 328

for Indian service in..

338, 1025

fortown-site expenses , Union Agency . 338, 1025

for leasing, etc., Creek and Cherokee

lands ...

1025

full-blood Indians .

1025

for sale of inherited , etc. , lands..

1025

for removing intruders, etc. , lands of

Five Civilized Tribes...

339, 1025

for care of orphans at Whittaker Home.. 339

for expenses suppressing smallpox in

1900 ..

339

for expenses suppressing smallpox in

1901 ..

1025

for removing alienation restrictions, al-

lottees..

339, 1025

Indian Territory-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for incidental expenses, In-

dian service in ....

339, 1025

for roads, Creek and Cherokee lands .... 339

for expenses, inspector's office ....... 339, 1026 for investigating leases of allotted lands .. 339,

1026

for investigating Choctaw and Chickasaw

coal lands..

346

completing work of recorders..

1026

constructive notice of leases........

1026

for care of orphans in............

1026

for care of insane persons ; Indians at

Canton, S. Dak..

346, 1029

for judges, United States courts.. for court expenses....

447, 992 756

deficiency appropriation for incidental ex-

penses, Indian service in..............

38, 39

for town-site expenses, Union Agency .

39

for town-site commissioners ..

39, 655

for care of insane persons at Canton,

S. Dak ...

39

for additional judges, courts in..

41

for courts in; deputy clerks, etc ..

657

incorporated in State of Oklahoma ..

267

delegates to convention to form constitu-

tion for Oklahoma, from ...

268

election districts for Oklahoma constitu-

tional convention ....

268

apportionment by Commissioner to Five

Civilized Tribes and two judges.... 268

canvassing board ; returns, etc ..

268

nominations, ballots, etc ....

269

additional Choctaw coal lands reserved;

payments by lessors .....

338

allottees may plat town sites on lands ad-

joining railroad stations...

373

Choctaw and Chickasaw allotted lands for

churches and cemeteries ....

338

citizenship provisions to allottees not ex-

tended to Indians in .

183

consolidation of McAlester and South

McAlester, ratified ..

91

district courts in, given jurisdiction in nat-

uralization of aliens...

596

jurisdiction of district courts, claims of Five Civilized Tribes ...
McAlester, may issue bonds for. schoolhouses ..
municipalities may improve streets, etc... assessment on property for ... issue of improvement scrip certificates .. taxation of railroad tangible property.. on all property; appeals from assessment..
vacation of streets and alleys by. pending criminal cases, not Federal , trans-
ferred to Oklahoma State courts ....

144
1027 147 147 147 148
148 142
1287

recording district No. 30 created ; court at

Wilburton ...

342

No. 27; court at Bartlesville

342

No. 28; court at Tulsa..

343

No. 29; court at Duncan..

343

Indian Tribal Funds,

allotment of pro rata share to individual

Indians permitted ; conditions ... 1221

payment of existing claims .....

1221

distribution to helpless, etc. , Indians ... 1221

Indiana Harbor, Ind.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1113

Indiana State Board of Agriculture, deficiency appropriation for payment to... 32

Indians (see also Five Civilized Tribes) ,

appropriation for suppressing liquor traffic

among .

328, 1017

INDEX .

3439

Indians-Continued . alienation restrictions removed from, Richardson County, Nebr .. allottees in severalty to have citizenship at end of trust period, and receiving
fee-simple title . native born, receiving fee-simple title to
allotments accorded citizenship ..
adopting civilized life, declared citizens . tribal property, etc. , rights not impaired .
sale, etc. , restrictions removed on issue of
fee-simple title .. land not liable for prior debts. jurisdiction until fee-simple patents issued. Indian Territory excluded from provisions
of act
allottee dying before end of trust period, land to revert..
fee-simple patent to heirs, or proceeds of sale ..
claims for prosecuting, in Alaska, to be examined , etc.
distributing lands, etc. , to Osages, Oklahoma .
homestead allotments in Alaska to ; condi-
tions .. of Metlakahtla, Alaska, given certain civic

Page. 263
182 182 182 182 183 183 183 183
183 183 1376 540 197

Ingram, John- Continued .

Page.

return from President requested of bill to

pension .

2837

Ingram, Orin,

pension increased .

2282

Ingram, William,

pension increased ..

2494

Injunctions, United States Courts,

appeals to circuit court of appeals from
interlocutory orders of, in any cause. 116 issue by circuit court to enforce orders of

Interstate Commerce Commission .. 592

Injuries to Railroad, etc. , Employees,

liability of common carrier for...

232

Inquiries and Investigations, Senate,

appropriation for expenses..

392, 938

deficiency appropriation for expenses.. 661, 1395

Insane Asylum, D. C. (see Government Hos-

pital for Insane, D. C. ). Insane Criminals, D. C. ,

Code provisions extended to charges, etc.,

by information .....

113

Insane, D. C.,

appropriation for support of indigent .. 512, 1153

for deporting nonresident ....

512, 1153

deficiency appropriation for support ......... 1379

Insane Indians,

rights ..

1411

restriction on taxing, in constitution of

Arizona .

280

appropriation for asylum for, Canton,

S. Dak .

371, 1048

deficiency appropriation for care, etc., of . 39

rights, etc., not impaired by admission of

nsane Persons, Alaska,

Oklahoma as a State.

267 appropriation for care, etc.

731

sales of allotments within reclamation pro-

Insane Persons, etc.,

jects permitted ; restrictions ..

327

sales in fee of lands held for noncompetent . 1018 taxes on lands of, where restrictions are re-

moved, may be paid from tribal, etc. , fund . tribal funds may be apportioned to individuals; conditions .. Indians, Minor, interest allowed on moneys withheld from . Indigent Soldiers, etc., appropriation for burial at Arlington, etc..
deficiency appropriation for burial at Arlington, etc..
Industrial Commission,

1016
1221 327
740, 1346
33

correspondence, etc. , of, to be transferred to

Department ofCommerce and Labor. 1425 Industrial Home School, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries and expenses . 511, 1152

deficiency appropriation for fuel.

643

Industrial Home School for Colored Children,

admission of alien, excluded ..

899

Insane Persons, Indian Territory,

appropriation for care of; Indians at Can-

ton, S. Dak :..

346, 1029

deficiency appropriation for care of, at

asylum , Canton, S. Dak :

39

Insanitary Buildings, D. C. ,

appropriation for condemnation of......... 1132

proceedings for condemnation , etc. , of..

157

Inspecting Instruments, Army,

appropriation for, manufacture of cannon ,

etc .. insular possessions .

   463, 1060 1061

Inspection Certificates, Steam Vessels,

temporary certificates by inspectors for use

until official copy received.

230

Inspection of Meat Animals and Products,

provisions for, in interstate and foreign com-

merce .

674, 1260

Inspection of Vessels (see Steamboat- Inspec-

tion Service).

D. C. ,

Inspector-General's Department, Army,

appropriation for building .

511

for salaries and expenses.

1152

Industrial Peace Committee,

appointment; authority and purposes .

1242

Industrial Peace, Foundationfor Promotion of,

established ; purposes, etc.

1242

Industrial Property Bureau, International,

appropriation for share of expenses.. Ingalls, Jeremiah, alias Jeremiah Boss,

432, 978

appropriation for pay of officers; longevity. 244,

1161

for traveling expenses, expert account-

ant ..

245, 1163

for pay of expert accountant .

246, 1163

Inspector-General's Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc.. Inspectors, Interior Department,

418, 964

appropriation for salaries and expenses,

pension increased ... Ingebretson, Gunnerus,

1458

special .

Inspectors of Consulates,

428, 973

pension increased . Ingersoll, Herbert D. ,

1646 appropriation for.

293, 923

office established ; appointment of five con-

pension increased .. Ingle, Eliza J. (widow),

1909

suls-general at large as.

100

salary, etc .; duties....

100

pension.. Ingram, Albin L. ,

2291 temporary charge of post of suspended

officer; powers .

.100

pension increased .

1571 Inspectors of Hulls and Boilers,

Ingram, John,

provided for Juneau and Saint Michael,

pension increased .

2566

Alaska, and Point Pleasant, W. Va . 106

3440

INDEX.

Inspectors of Hulls and Boilers -Cont'd. abolished in district of Alaska, and at Gal-
lipolis, Ohio, and Wheeling W. Va.. maximum pay of clerks increased details of assistants to other ports ..

Page.
106 107 107

Inspectors, Postal Service,

appropriation for chief, clerks, etc ...... 437, 982

Instruction Pay,

appropriation for, diplomatic and consular

service .

288, 918

Insular Affairs Bureau, War Department,

appropriation for law officer, clerks, etc .. 421, 966

for rent.

421 , 967

for pay of officers; detail of principal as-

sistant to Chief.

1162

details from line .

1162

Chief made a brigadier-general .

456

detail of army officer as principal assist-

ant to Chief of...

1162

Insular Possessions,

appropriation for seacoast batteries . for sites for defenses, Hawaii..

464, 1061 464

for fire-control installations ; range find-

ers, etc ...

1061

for harbor searchlights .

1061

for submarine mines..

1061

for seacoast cannon.

465, 1061

for mounting 12-inch rifles .

465, 1061

for ammunition for seacoast cannon.. 465, 1061

for inspecting instruments .

465, 1061

for altering, etc. , seacoast artillery ... 465, 1062

for purchase of submarine mines ."

1062

included in provisions of pure food act

772

naturalization of citizens of...

606

Insurance Department, D. C. , appropriation for salaries..

487, 1124

Intercourse Acts, Indian,

appropriation for punishing violations

of..

752, 1358

Interest and Sinking Fund, D. C., · appropriation for..

508, 1147

Interior Department, appropriation for Secretary, clerks, etc... for board of pension appeals. vacancies not to be filled .

Assistants , 427, 973 427, 973 428

for special inspectors, clerks, etc .. 428, 973

for mechanics, watchmen, engineers,

etc ..

428, 974

for clerk to sign Indian tribal deeds .. 428, 974

for employees, old Post- Office build-

ing.

428, 974

for assistants, etc. , office of Assistant

Attorney- General

429, 974

for expenses, special inspectors

429, 974

for Commissioner of General Land Office,

assistant, clerks, etc ...

429, 975

temporary force, San Francisco earth-

quake.

429

for mine inspectors ..

430, 975

for Commissioner of Indian Affairs, as-

sistant, clerks, etc ..

430, 976

for Commissioner of Pensions , deputies,

clerks, etc....

430, 976

restriction of filling vacancies, etc ..

431

suspended ...

1388

for Commissioner of Patents, assistant ,

examiners, etc ...

432, 977

for Commissioner of Education , clerks,

etc ...

432, 978

for Superintendent of Capitol Building

and Grounds..

433, 979

for contingent expenses./..

433, 979

Interior Department- Continued.
appropriation for special agents for stationery, etc.. for rent...

Page. 433 433, 979 434, 979

for postage stamps...

434,979

for surveyors-general and their clerks.. 434, 979

for Indian Department ..

325, 1015

for civil expenses under..

722, 1330

for repairs to buildings.

722, 1330

for elevator, old Post-Office building. 1330

for Capitol..

722, 1330

for office building, Senate...

723, 1330

for office building, House of Representa-

tives ...

723, 1330

for Freedmen's Hospital .

1331

for public lands..

723, 1332

for reimbursing Washington...

1334

for abandoned military reservations .. 726, 1334

for reimbursing Utah...

726

for surveying boundary Idaho and Mon-

tana ..

726

for Geological Survey.

726, 1334

for reproducing land records destroyed

by earthquake..

1336

for national parks..

729, 1337

for Supreme Court Reports.....

729, 1337

for education of natives in Alaska ... 729, 1337

for removal of Lemhis to Fort Hall Res-

ervation...

730

for reindeer in Alaska..

730, 1338

for additional day schools for natives in

Alaska; supervision..

1338

for Government Hospital for Insane .. 730, 1338

for care of insane, Alaska..

731

for Columbia Deaf and Dumb Insti-

tution ..

731, 1338

for Howard University. for Freedmen's Hospital .

731, 1338 731, 1339

for printing and binding . for pensions...

760, 1367 133, 1406

leficiency appropriation for private secre-

tary, Commissioner of Indian Af-

fairs...

36

for Library Bureau Company .

36

for Capitol.

36, 653, 1388, 1402

for surveyor-general, Nevada ..

37

for Columbia Deaf and Dumb Institu-

tion ...

37

for Government Hospital for Insane...

37

for Geological Survey. 37, 47, 654, 667, 669, 1402

for Indian Department..

38,

47, 653, 8 , 667, 669, 842 , 1388 , 1403, 1405

for pensions.

39, 47, 1389, 1403, 1406

for Court of Claims judgments under .. 44, 664

for special inspectors....

47

for contingent expenses..

47, 654

for public lands ...

47,

654, 666, 885, 1388, 1402, 1405

for resurvey, San Diego County, Cal .... 120

for W. H. Green...

653

for John Brady.

653

for Patent Office ..

653, 1388

for General Land Office .

653

for reindeer for Alaska ..

654

for printing and binding.

663

for rent, Reclamation Service .

663

for pensions, examining surgeons .

667

for Secretary.

1387

for Supreme Court Reports ..

1387

for insane, Alaska....

1388

vacancies in Pension Office may be filled

for the fiscal year .

1388

Interlocutory Orders, Ünited States Courts,

appeals allowed from, in any cause to cir-

cuit court of appeals ..

116

INDEX .

3441

Internal Revenue,

Page.

appropriation for Commissioner, deputies,

clerks, etc correction of error..

408, 954 636

for stamp agents, etc ....

408, 954

for salaries, collectors, surveyors, etc .. 411, 957

available for messengers and janitors .. 1375

for miscellaneous expenses..

411, 957

for agents, gaugers, etc ..

411 , 957

for paper and stamps ..

705, 1312

for punishing violations of, laws ; books

etc ...

705, 1312

for expenses under denatured alcohol

law..

218, 957

for solicitor of.......

440, 985

forrefund to Phoenix , and Ober Brothers,

brewing companies....

1221

deficiency appropriation for agents, etc..

29

637, 665, 1375, 1401, 1404

additional for 1907 .

638

for redemption of stamps .

29, 638, 1375

for refunding taxes illegally collected... 29,

638, 665, 1375

for collectors' salaries , etc ..

46, 638, 1401

forrefunding taxes on destroyed spirits.. 46

for judgments against officers . 46, 665, 668, 1401

for paper for stamps ..

1375

for maple-sugar bounty.

1375

for punishing violation of, laws .

1401

for drawbacks....

1401

additional employees, instruments, ' etc. , for denatured-alcohol act authorized . 218

appointments for two years not subject

to civil-service conditions ....

218

articles in Porto Rico may be stamped be-

fore shipment....

620

collectors to keep list of all persons paying

special taxes..

387

copy to State, etc. , prosecuting officer;

fee..

387

denatured-alcohol regulations .

217

provisions amended..

1250

deputy collector for Porto Rico, and sale of

stamps there, authorized..

620

duties, returns, etc ..

620

fortification of pure sweet wines, regula-

tions, etc...

215

gaugers, etc., at wineries, to supervise forti-

fying sweet wines ..

216

Internal Revenue, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, deputies, clerks , etc .. 408 , 954

may authorize central denaturing bonded

warehouses; regulations , etc.

1250

International Associationfor Labor Legislation,

appropriation for contribution to .

443, 988

International Bureau for Publication of Cus-

toms Tariffs,

appropriation for annual contribution . 290, 920

International Bureau for Repression of African

Slave Trade,

appropriation for annual contribution .. 291, 920 International Bureau of Weights and Measures,
appropriation for annual contribution .. 291 , 920.

International Bureau, Permanent Court of Arbitration,
appropriation for share of expenses... 291 , 921 International Catalogue ofScientific Literature,
appropriation for cooperation in work of . 704, 1310 International Commission, Canadian Boun-

dary Waters,

appropriation for continuing work of..

743

to report on action to prevent depletion of

Niagara Falls ...

824

to act with Canadian commission for pre-

serving Niagara Falls .

824

International Committee of Electrical Units, Page.

appropriation for expenses, delegates ... 446, 991 International Committee of Weights and Meas-
ures, appropriation for, expenses of member .. 446, 991

International Conference , Algeciras,

general act for reforms in Morocco, con-

cluded at

2905

International Conferencefor Revision ofGeneva

Convention, 1864,

deficiency appropriation for delegates to.. 118

selection from Army and Navy .....

118

International Conference of American States,

deficiency appropriation for third, at Rio

de Janeiro....

118

International Conference on Immigration,
may be called by the President ; scope... International Congress of Hygiene and Demog-
raphy, invited to meet in Washington....

909 1422

International Exchanges, appropriation for....
International Fishery Congress,

704, 1310

appropriation for expenses, participationin. 922

International Geodetic Associationfor Measure-

ment ofthe Earth,

appropriation for annual quota.. for expenses of delegate to.....

391, 921 715, 1322

International Industrial Property Bureau,

appropriation for share of expenses... 432, 978

International Institute of Agriculture, Rome,

Italy,

deficiency appropriation for quota, etc .... 635

International Law, Digest,

deficiency appropriation for expenses, edit-

ing..

1372

International Maritime Exposition,

deficiency appropriation for participation . 1371 International Peace Conference at The Hague,
Second,

appropriation for expenses, participation

in..

118,922

International Prison Commission,

appropriation for annual subscription ... 291, 921 International Railway Congress,
appropriation for annual quota...... 292, 921 International Sanitary Bureau,

appropriation for annual contribution... 292, 921 International Seismological Association,

appropriation for annual contribution,

etc ..

728, 922

International Sunday School Association of

America ,

incorporated; powers, duties, etc ..

867

International Time Recording Company,

deficiency appropriation for...

1392

International Union ofAmerican Republics,

appropriation for expenses cf Bureau ... 291 , 921

for site and contribution toward building

for Bureau..

758

International ( Water) Boundary Commission, Mexican,

appropriation for continuing work of.... 291 , 920

deficiency appropriation for continuing

work of..

885

International Waterways Commission,

appropriation for continuing work of... 743, 1351

authorized to rent office rooms in Wash-

ington...

1119

Interpreters,

appropriation for, at embassies and lega-

tions ...

288, 918

not to be paid other salary .

289, 919

at consulates ..

294, 924

deficiency appropriation for, at consulates . 635 .

3442

INDEX.

Interstate Bridge and Terminal Company, may bridge Missouri River at Kansas City, Kans ..
Interstate Commerce,
prevention of cruelty to animals transported in..

Page. 884
607

regulations of meat animals and products

in...

674, 1260

hours of labor by railway employees , lim- ·

ited ...

1415

seizure ofadulterated , etc., food or drugs in. 771

Interstate Commerce Commission, appropriation for salaries..

705, 1311

for examinations, railway discrimina-

tions, etc.; printing...

705

for expenses regulating commerce .

1311

for enforcing antitrust laws, etc.. 705, 1311

for additional expenses, under rate bill.. 840

for arbitration, railway employees' differ-

ences ..

705, 1311

for examinations block systems, etc ... 1312

for enforcing safety-appliances regula-

tions ....

705, 1312

for printing and binding.

761, 1368

deficiency appropriation for railway safety

appliances .

31

for expenses...

48

for examinations, etc .; amount for coun-

sel ....

119

temporary employees authorized .

119

duties enforcing limit of continuous service

by railroad train employees..

1416

enlarged to seven members; term and sal-

aries increased....

595

appointment of new and subsequent mem-

bers ......

.595

party selection restricted .

595

testimony taken by, investigation of grain

elevator business, etc., ordered

printed

2837

to investigate and report if railroads own,

etc., coal or oil , or coal or oil prop-

erties....

823

officers, etc. , are interested in coal or oil

properties, traffic , etc.

823

trusts, conspiracies, etc. , to monopolize

coal or oil trade ...

823

to report on effect of such ownership , mo-

nopoly, etc. , if found to exist ...

823

to investigate and report on car supply for

coal or oil traffic

823

if discrimination is made against ship-

pers ...

823

to report suggested remedy .

823

other pertinent facts and conclusions .

824

to investigate at earliest convenience, and

report from time to time..

824

power given to administer oaths, compel

testimony, etc..

824

to report on railway block-signal systems

and automatic control of trains ;

powers..

838

Interstate Commerce Laws,

appropriation for enforcing .

752

Interstate Commerce Regulations,

application of, extended ..

584

transportation by pipe lines considered

common carriers..

584

transportation by rail or rail and water be-

tween States, Territories, etc ................ 584

within a Territory..

584

to an adjacent foreign country..

584

transshipped through a foreign country

to United States...

584

to port of shipment for foreign country.. 584

Interstate Commerce Regulations Cont'd . Page. transportation by rail or . rail and water

from port of entry from foreign

country to destinat.on...

584

not applicable to traffic wholly within one

State....

584

66

common carrier ". includes express and

sleeping car companies .....

584

"railroad " includes bridges and ferries... 584

leased roads, terminal facilities, etc... 584

freight yards, etc...

584

"transportation" includes cars, facilities

of shipment, etc.....

584

services for receipt, delivery, transfer,

storage, etc...

584

carriers to furnish, upon request..

584

through routes, and reasonable rates.. 584

all charges to be just and reasonable..

584

unjust and unreasonable, declared un-

lawful...

584

free passenger transportation forbidden... 584

exceptions; interchange for officers, etc. 585

penalty for giving or using..

585

jurisdiction of offenses.

585

railroads forbidden to carry products in

which interested after May 1 , 1907 ;

timber excepted.....

585

switch connections, and cars to be fur-

nished on application.....

585

issue of order to enforce; proceedings ... 585

schedule provisions amended

586

ofrates, etc., to be printed and filed with

Commission ...

586

of rates on route and connecting lines,

rail, pipe, or water...

586

on connecting roads...

586

to show places reached..

586

to state terminal, icing, etc. , charges.... 586

posting in conspicuous places..

586

applicable to all traffic transportation

and facilities ...

586

for goods shipped through foreign coun-

try..

586

to pay duty if rates not posted .

586

changes in rates; 30 days' notice required . 586

exception, in discretion of Commission.. 586

joint tariffs, concurrence of parties....

587

carriers to file copies of traffic contracts

with Commission ....

587

schedules, to be in form Commission pre-

scribes ...

587

transportation forbidden unless rates filed ,

etc ...

587

charges to be as specified.

587

rebates prohibited ..

587

meaning of " carrier "

587

military traffic in time ofwar.

587

corporation carriers liable for violations;

penalties....

587

penalty for not filing tariffs, etc

587

giving or receiving rebates, etc. , unlawful;

penalty...

587

imprisonment, corporation officers, etc. 588

jurisdiction of offenses..

588

liability ofprincipal for acts of agent.... 588 departure from published rates an offense. 588

additional penalty for receiving rebates

from carriers ...

588

civil suit to recover; amount..

588

investigation of charges..

589

Commission to report conclusions, orders,

etc ....

589

to state damages awarded ..

589

to furnish copies to parties..

589

to publish reports; effect of, as evidence. . 589

INDEX.

3443

38

Interstate Commerce Regulations-Cont'd . Page.

Commission to prescribe just and reason-

able maxímum rates if charges, etc.,

are unjust, etc ....

589

to determine regulations to be followed. 589

to order carriers to cease violations..

589

force and effect of order.

589

to make supplemental order apportioning

joint rates..

589

to establish through routes, maximum

joint rates, etc ..

590

to determine maximum charges for trans-

portation service, etc. , by shipper.. 590

powers of, not diminished ..

590

awards of money damages..

590

suit in circuit court to compel payment. 590

order of Commission príma facie evi-

dence of facts..

590

allowances to petitioner if successful.. 590

proceedings; time forfiling complaints,

etc

590

joining of parties; service of process .. 590

recoveries ..

591

orders of Commission to be served by mail . 591

suspension, etc.; effect ......

591

compliance by common carriers..

59.1

penalty for failure; recovery..

591

prosecution; counsel..

591

orders other than payment of money.

591

proceedings in circuit court to enforce.. 591

process by injunction, etc....

591

appeal to Supreme Court..

592

actions to set aside, etc. , orders of Commis-

sion; venue ...

592

priority in all suits affecting orders of

Commission

592

appeals to Supreme Court .

592

notice to Commission before granting in-

junctions, etc ..

592

appeals from injunctions to Supreme

Court

592

schedules, etc., filed with Commission to

be received as evidence ...

592

effect of certified copies....

592

rehearings; not to stay enforcement of or-

ders....

592

proceedings; effect ..

593

annual reports required from all carriers,

etc. , of interstate commerce ..

593

details, information, etc., required .

593

statistics, etc. , oath, time of filing.

593

penalty for failure..

593

special, etc., reports ..

593

recovery of forfeitures; oath ..

594

forms of records, etc. , may be prescribed by

Commission

594

examination of accounts, etc. , by special

agents.....

594

penalty for failure to keep accounts, etc. ,

or submit to inspection...

594

for making false entries, records, etc

594

for divulging information by examiner . 594

jurisdiction of circuit and district courts to

compel compliance with regula-

tions ...

594

spècial agents authorized ; powers, duties,

etc....

595

bills of lading from receiving carrier..... 595

liability to holder for loss ; other reme-

dies...

595

recovery by issuing carrier from line

where loss occurred .....

595

Interstate Commerce Regulations Cont'd . Page.

Commission enlarged to seven; term, and

salaries increased ....

595

appointment of two new members;

terms....

595

terms of present members; successors .. 595 .

application of existing laws; repeal; pend-

ing cases continued ...

595

to take effect sixty days after approval.... 838

appropriation for additional expenses

under...

840

conference committee on deficiency appro-

priation bill authorized to insert ap-

propriations for, act ..

2834

immunity of witnesses in cases under, lim-

ited to natural persons....

798

Intoxicating Liquors,

appropriation for suppressing traffic among

Indians ....

328, 1017

sale at immigrant stations forbidden ...... 907

Intoxicating Liquors, D. C.,

sale, gift, etc., to minors by unlicensed per-

sons prohibited..

1248

punishment..

1249

sale near Insane Asylum and Home for the

Aged prohibited..

870

Intruders on Indian Lands,

deficiency appropriation for removing, and

placing allottees in possession ....

39

Inventions, Patented,

investigation of, in Government use,

granted to officials...........

1422

Invoice Fees, Consular,

to be prescribed by the President......... 101 Invoices,

authentication in Philippines by customs

officers.....

539

Iola, Kans.,

acquiring site and erecting public building'

at, authorized ....

779

appropriation for... Iona Island, N. Y., Naval Magazine,
appropriation for public works... Iowa,

792, 1299. 1190

appropriation for Indian service in .... 347, 1029 Iowa Indians,

appropriation for drainage assessments on

lands in Richardson County, Nebr. ,

allotted to.....

263

for fulfilling treaty with ..

347, 1030

fee-simple patents may be issued to allottees in Kansas and Nebraska..... 349

shares of minors, etc., in trust funds may be

paid to guardians ...

356

treaty funds to credit of; per capita pay-

ments..

1030

Iowa Indians, Oklahoma,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with..... 362

for anticipating installments of treaty

payments ...

362

Iowa Northern Judicial District,

Clinton County transferred to southern dis-

trict..

304

terms of court at Cedar Rapids, Dubuque,

Sioux City, and Fort Dodge..

912

Iowa Southern Judicial District,

Appanoose County transferred from south-

ern to eastern division...

127

Clinton County transferred to Davenport .

division, from northern district ..

304

Ottumwa division created ..

913

counties constituting .

913

terms at Ottumwa..

913

jurisdiction, etc.

913

terms, Creston...

127

3444

INDEX .

"Iowa," U. S. S.,

Page.

appropriation for modernizing battery ..... 1180

Iquique, Chile,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Iquitos, Peru,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Irion, John T.,

payment to .

1770

Iromwhip, Johah, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

374

Irrigation (see also Reclamation Act) ,

appropriation for expenses, Indian reser-

vations ..

328, 1017

for, lands of Uncompahgres, Uintahs, and

White River Utes in Utah...

375

for Yakima Indians, Wash..

377

for extending Shoshone Indian Reserva-

tion , Wyo..

384, 1052

for project for Fort Hall Indian Reserva-

tion, Idaho, lands ..

1024

for Blackfeet Indian Reservation , Mont. 1038

for expenses of investigations.......... 694, 1279

deficiency appropriation for expenses,

Indian reservations ..

39

convention with Mexico for equitable use

of Rio Grande for .

2953

diversion of Sacramento River, Cal. , for,

authorized ..

185

Irrigation of Arid Lands,

appropriation for reclamation service; rent,

etc.

728

provisions extended to Texas .

259

Irvine, Lydia (widow),

pension increased ..

2741

Irwin, Adelle D. (widow),

pension increased ..

1648

Irwin, Edward,

pension increased .

1502

Irwin, George W.,

pension increased ..

2470

Irwin, Minnie (widow),

pension increased

1983

Isaac, Jane, Indian Allottee, appropriation for purchase of land for..... 1045

Isaacs, Alfred S.,

pension increased .

1588

Isaacs, Burgess N.,

pension increased .

2804

Isaacson, Lars, pension increased ..
Isachsen, Else C. (mother),
pension... Isbell, William H.,
pension increased . Isbill, Nelson,
pension... Isell, Fred. G.,
deficiency appropriation for services ...... Islais River, Cal.,
preliminary examination-of, to be made ... Isle au Haut, Me.,
light and fog signal established .
deficiency appropriation for... Isle of Shoals, N. H.,
life-saving station established at.. preliminary examination of, to be made for
breakwater... Isle Saint Michel, Lake Champlain,

2753 1471 2398 2480
44
1111 321 659 849 1115 ,

appropriation for marking graves of soldiers

and sailors ...

258

Isolated Tracts, Public Lands, to be sold at auction ; minimum price, etc. 517 notice; vested rights not defeated ...... 517

Isom, Susan H. (widow),

pension increased ..

1815

Israel Baptist Church, D. C., taxes refunded...

Page. 869

Israel, Susan E. (widow),

pension increased...

1659

Isthmian Canal (see also Canal Zone) ,

appropriation for continuing construction .

5

reimbursable, from proceeds of bonds.

5

for salaries, etc. , in the United States . 761 , 1368

for incidental expenses, supplies, rent,

etc., in the United States ..

761, 1368

for officers and employees on the Isth-

mus...

761, 1368

for labor on the Isthmus..

761 , 1369

for materials, supplies, etc. , on the

Isthmus ...

761, 1369

for advances, reequipment of Panama

Railroad .

761

for advances, equipment of Panama

Railroad; reimbursement .....

1369

for paying outstanding bonds ; reim-

bursement ..

1369

for incidental, etc. , expenses, on the

Isthmus...

761 , 1369

for officers and labor, Canal Zone.. 762, 1369

for contingent expenses, etc. , Canal

Zone.

762, 1369

for officers and labor, sanitation depart-

ment..

762, 1369

for contingent expenses, etc., sanitation

department ..

762, 1369

ten per cent interchangeable ...

1370

deficiency appropriation for material pur-

chases in the United States ...

33

for purchases on the Isthmus , miscella-

neous expenses, etc ..

33

for Panama Railroad Company .

33

for Isthmus pay rolls...

33

for salaries, etc. , in the United States... 33

for equipment purchases...

33

for advance to Panama Railroad Company 33

all expenditures to be from sale of bonds .. 33,

762, 1369

balances reappropriated....

1370

transfers from former appropriations...

1370

sums appropriated, available for obliga-

tions of Commission under construc-

tion contracts, etc ..

1370

restriction on total for construction con-

tracts removed....

1370

pay of officers, etc. , on Isthmus available

while on duty elsewhere...

1370

deductions from pay of employees author-

ized, for board, supplies, etc ..

1371

bonds issued for construction of, accorded

all rights of 2 per cent bonds .

5

tax on notes based on deposit of, in lieu

of other taxes..

5

reports of all operations to be made an-

nually, etc ...

0

annual estimates to be submitted..

5

expenditures limited to appropriations ..

eight-hour law not applicable to construc-

tion of....

33

to unskilled alien laborers on

669

lock canal to be constructed .

611

material and equipment used in construction of, to be of domestic production . 835
Isthmian Canal Commission,

appropriation for salaries and expenses . 761 , 1368

deficiency appropriation for construction

expenses .

33

for Lieut. Col. William M. Black

34

for Lieut. Mark Brooke ..

34

sums appropriated available for obligations of, under construction contracts , etc. 1370

INDEX.

3445

Isthmian Canal Exposition,

Page.

President requested to hold naval and mili-

tary review at ..

2835

It ko ki po pi, or Joshua, Yankton Sioux

Allottee,

investigation of allotment to .

373

Italy, appropriation for ambassador to .
for secretary of embassy... for second secretary .

286, 916 287, 917 287, 917

Ithaca, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building....

1299

limit of cost increased , public building... 773

Ivans, William,

pension increased ..

2784

Ivers, William,

pension increased..

2646

Ivey, Mary J. (widow),

pension increased ...

2133



Jackman, Jesse,

pension increased ..

2506

Jackson, Andrew,

pension increased ..

2061

Jackson, Charles,

pension increased .

2127

Jackson, George W. ,

pension...

1688

Jackson, Henry C. ,

pension increased...

2035

Jackson, Lydia B. (widow),

pension increased ..

1517

Jackson, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2690

Jackson, Miss. ,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ...

774

appropriation for.

790, 1299

Jackson, Samuel,

pension increased ..

2286

Jackson, Solomon,

pension increased ..

1926

Jackson, Thomas C. , pension increased..

.... 1879

Jackson, W. H.,

deficiency appropriation for contested elec-

tion expenses ..

1396

Jackson, Wiley H.,

pension increased ..

2508

Jackson, William, Missouri Volunteer Cavalry,

pension increased .

2330

Jackson, William, Missouri Volunteer Infan-

try,

pension increased ..

2475

Jacobs, Charles C.

deficiency appropriation for contested elec-

tion expenSER..

651

Jacobs, Hannah R. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2100

Jacobs, James,

pension increased ..

1862

Jacobs, John A. , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

346

Jacobs, John T.,

pension increased ..

1905

Jacobs, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased..

2737

Jacobs, Sherman,

pension...

2240

Jacobsen, J. C.,

payment to.

2661

Jacoby, John,

pension increased ........

1746

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--54

Jager, Harry,

Page.

payment to.

2661

Jail, D. C., appropriation for warden....... for maintenance .

508, 1148 508, 1148

Jalapa, Mexico, classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Jamaica Bay, N. Y. , preliminary examination to be made for

general plan for improvement in co-

operation with New York.....

1115

of channels ...

1115

Jamaica Earthquake,

use of naval stores to relieve distress occa-

sioned by..

850

James, Benjamin,

pension increased .

2753

James, Hezekiah,

pension increased .

2495

James, John H. ,

pension increased ..

2787

James, Margaret L. (widow) , pension increased .

2756

James, Morris J.,

pension increased .

1746

James River, Va., appropriation for lighting. for improvement of..
Jameson, Nelson W., pension increased ..

713, 1320 1082
2745

Jamestown Exposition Company,

to furnish plans for piers and basin for

small craft; conditions....

765

appropriation for aid to ; conditions, etc.;

Sunday closing required .

766

may have medals prepared at Mint .

767

Jamestown Island, Va. ,

appropriation for pier; purchase or lease of

present structure ; condition .....

766

for policing grounds, etc., during exposi-

tion...

766

Jamestown, Saint Helena,

classification and salary of consul..

100

Jamestown Ter- Centennial Commission,

duties of preparing, installing, etc. , Gov-

ernment exhibit ...

764

allowances to officers and employees; de-

tails permitted ....

764

Jamestown Ter- Centennial Exposition,

appropriation for subsistence of cadets at-

tending...

1072

for life-saving station..

1308

for moorings, etc. , may be used for tem-

porary beacons, buoys, etc...

1351

deficiency appropriation for further aid to . 886

time of payment ..

886

disbursement ..

886

repayment by company .

886

guaranty required.

886

portion ofgross receipts; maximum . 886

proceedings in case of default ...... 887

acceptance of conditions by company. 887

dates of opening and closing changed . 887

for dredging channels to piers, etc ..

887

for expenses of troops at ..

1381

for expenses joint Congressional com-

mittee to attend opening

1394

exhibits from Departments, etc., authorized

at ..

764

preparation, return , etc ..

764

detail of officers and employees; allow-

ances .

764

appropriation for expenses.....

765

3446

INDEX .

Jamestown Ter- Centennial Exposition- Con . Page. Japanese Naval Medical and Sanitary Features Page.

buildings for Government exhibits, etc., authorized; cost.....
appropriation for construction, etc.
disposal at close of exposition .... piers and basin for small craft; contracts
for construction appropriation for.. operation, lighting, etc. access, etc.; regulations... appropriation for aid to ; condition
Sunday closing required........... for permanent pier, Jamestown Island ;
contract
lease or purchase of present pier... for policing, etc. , grounds on Jamestown
Island; condition.... imports for exhibition to be admitted free
of duty..

of Russo- Japanese War,

765 report on, ordered printed ...

2831

765 Jaquith, George L.,

765 pension increased ..

1651

Jardine, Matheson & Co.,

765 appropriation for repairs to " Choy Sang " . 1292

765

for reimbursing.....

1293

765 Jared, James M.,

766 pension increased .

2074

766 Jarman Ferry, Miss. ,

766 bridge authorized across Tallahatchie River

at..

211

766 Jarvis, Andrew,

766 pension increased .

2562

Jarvis, Lewis M.,

766 pension increased...

2792

Jarvis, Noah,

766 pension increased ...

2446

sale for delivery at close of exposition.. 767 Jasnowski, Saturnin,

assessment and collection of duty..

767 pension increased ...

-2158

disclaimer of invitation by the Govern-

Jasper and Eastern Railway Company,

ment to import articles....

767 may bridge Sabine River between Newton

medals, etc., to be prepared at the Mint;

County, Tex., and Calcasieu Parish,

duplicates....

767

La...

appropriation for exhibit of progress of

Jasper, Charles H.

7 1

negro race; building..........

767 pension increased .

1728

liability limited to extent of provisions of

Jayne, Joshua S.,

1

the act...

767 pension increased..

2626

for debt, etc., of exposition officers ex-

Jean, Derias Thomas,

pressly disclaimed ...

767 pension increased...

2043

no liability of any kind in excess of appro-

Jefferis, Anna M. (widow),

priations ....

767 pension increased ...

1754

regulation of expenditures ; final report . 768 Jefferson Barracks, Mo.,

allowances to army officers and enlisted

appropriation for post hospital.

255

men detailed for duty with......

1160 site for post-office and construction of, au-

anchorage grounds in Hampton Roads to

thorized ..

776

be established.......

1383

appropriation for.

791

condemned historic metal of the Navy do-

Jefferson County, Ark.,

nated to Pocahontas Bell Association 1424 may bridge Arkansas River, Pine Bluff.. 50

loan of tents and camp equipage for visiting

Jefferson, David E.,

commands ; conditions....

1175 pension increased .

2790

Jamestown, Va. , Tercentenary Celebration,

Jeffersonville, Ind.,

proclamation inviting foreign nations to

take part in...

2997

militia of States and Territories to par-

acquiring site for public building at, aù-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for .

794

ticipate in
Jandrin, William, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Jandro, William, pension increased .

3205 Jellison, Joshua T.,

pension increased .

2709

374 Jemez Forest Reserve, N. Mex.,

proclamation establishing

3182

enlarging..

3261

1852 Jenkins, Frank, Lindley C. Kent and,

Janes, Lewis C.,

deficiency appropriation for sureties on

pension increased .

2265

bond of Frank A. Webb ......

29

20

Janitors , Public Buildings, appropriation for... deficiency appropriation for ..

707, 1313 45, 832

Janitors to Committees, House of Representa-

tives, appropriation for ..

394, 940

Janney, George L. ,

pension increased..

1723

Jenkins, James E., payments on account of loyal ratified .
Jenkins, James M., pension increased .
Jenkins, Robert, pension increased ..
Jenkins, Rosa Olds (widow), pension increased .

Seminoles

140 2267 2440 2422

Japan, appropriation for ambassador to .

Jenkins, William , Missouri Home Guards,

286, 916 pension increased .

2444

for secretary of embassy. for second secretary.

287, 917 Jenkins, William , Ohio Volunteer Cavalry,

287, 917 pension increased .

2549

for Japanese secretary.

288, 918 Jennings , Jefferson L.,

for student-interpreters ; tuition .

288 , 918 pension..

2468

for ground rent of embassy..

289, 919 Jensen, C. P.,

for interpreters at consulates in..

294, 924 payment to..

2661

copyright convention with ..

2887 Jensen, Franz Z. F. W.,

extradition convention with, crimes added . 2951 pension increased

2517

plan for consular buildings in , to be pre-

Jepson, Frances A. (widow),

pared ......

292 pension increased ..

2271

INDEX .

3447

Jerez de la Frontera, Spain, classification and salary of consul .....

Page. 100

Jersey City, N. J.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

783

appropriation for.

795

Jerusalem, Syria,

classification and salary of consul .....

100

Jester, Samuel,

pension increased .

1574

Jett, Hiram C.,

pension..

2485

Jewell, Lydia A. (stepmother),

pension.

1431

Jewell, Martha (widow),

pension..

1880

Jewett, Henry C.,

pension increased .

2622

Jicarilla Indian Reservation, N. Mex.,

cancellation of allotments to Indians on,

authorized ...

1413

lands to be allotted in exchange ; trust

patents ...

1413

disposal of timber for benefit of allottees . 91 , 1413

Johannes, Mary P. (widow),

pension increased .

1662

John, Elijah, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .....

380

John, Robert,

pension increased .

2325

John, Thomas, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

381

Johnson, Abraham,

reimbursement to, post-office expenses

2309

Johnson, Akey C. ,

pension increased .

1510

Johnson, Andrew , late President,

acceptance of burial place of; to be na-

tional cemetery..

259

Johnson, Anna (widow),

land patent issued to..

2818

Johnson, Benjamin F. ,

pension increased .

2615

Johnson, Bertha Maria (widow),

pension increased ..

2745

Johnson City, Tenn. ,

appropriation for expenses Volunteer

Soldiers' Home.....

748, 1355

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ...

34

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

781

appropriation for.. limit of cost increased, etc.

794, 1299 1299

Johnson County, Wyo. ,

sale of lands to, for poor farm, authorized .. 186

Johnson, Darwin,

pension increased .

2036

Johnson, David B. ,

pension increased .

2121

Johnson, Edmund,

pension increased .

2788

Johnson, Edna M. (daughter),

pension.

1974

Johnson, Elias,

pension increased .

1738

Johnson, F. Medora (widow) ,

pension.

2486

Johnson, George A. ,

pension increased .

2323

Johnson, Hannibal A. ,

pension increased .

2591

Johnson, Harry,

deficiency appropriation for moiety, im-

migration law fine..

660

Johnson, Hautville A. , pension increased .
Johnson, Henry, pension increased .

Page. 1918
2025

Johnson, Henry B. , pension increased .
Johnson, Henry C., pension increased .
Johnson, Henry L., pension increased .
Johnson, Isaac, pension increased .
Johnson, Jerry, pension increased .
Johnson, John, pension increased .
Johnson, John B. ,
pension.. Johnson, Lorenzo E.,.
pension.. Johnson, Lydia A. ( widow),
pension increased .

2739 1660 2233 2687 2398 2128 2158 1958 2116

Johnson, M. A.,

refund of deposit to..

2315

Johnson, Marquis L. ,

pension increased .

1735

Johnson, Marshall,

pension increased .

2444

Johnson, Martin,

pension increased .

2618

Johnson, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased .

1936

Johnson, Mary F. , widow of Gilman B. , pension..
Johnson, Mary F. , widow of Leroy J., pension increased .
Johnson, Merrill, pension increased .

2712 2378 2159

Johnson, Nannie T. (mother) ,

pension...

2566

Johnson, Orson B.,

pension increased.

2451

Johnson, Roland M. ,

pension increased .

2492

Johnson, Samuel E. ,

pension increased'.

1651

Johnson, Sarah (widow),

pension increased .

1570

Johnson, Solomon,

pension increased .

1891

Johnson, Wiley B. ,

pension increased .

1788

Johnson, William D. ,

pension increased .

1820

Johnson, William J., Mexican War,

pension increased .

2540

Johnson, William J., Ohio Volunteers,

pension increased .

1434

Johnsons Bayou, La. ,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1090

Johnston, Joseph,

pension increased

2274

Johnstown, N. Y.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for .

795

Johnstown, Pa.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

780

appropriation for..

793, 1299

Joines, John,

pension increased .

2124

Joint Commission on Immigration,

created; composition , powers, etc.

909

3448

INDEX .

Joint Commission on Printing, Congressional , Page. continued ; to report on branch offices, etc. 762
Joint Committee on Printing,

to make rules for issuing two or more edi-

tions of reports, etc. , instead of one . 826

to adopt measures to remedy delays in

printing and binding..

1012

report by, on resolutions to print extra

copies .....

1013

to direct arrangement and binding of docu-

ments .

1014

Joint Committee on Revision and Codification of the Laws,
appointment by Vice-President and Speaker..
duties, powers, etc. payment of expenses.. Joint High Commission ( Canadian),
appropriation for preparing reports, etc ... Joint Transportation Rates,
schedules required of interstate carriers... Jones, Alemia, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to ..... Jones, Alpheus,
pension increased . Jones, David,
pension increased Jones, David A. ,

1423 1423 1423 292 586 357 1780
2781

return from President requested of bill to

pension .

2830

Jones, Edward F.,

deficiency appropriation for postal scales .. 1392

Jones, David C.,

pension increased

2583

Jones, David S.,

pension increased .

2251

Jones, Eliza C. (widow),,

pension increased .

1599

Jones, Francis A. ,

pension increased

1607

Jones, Frank O. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ......

365

Jones, Henry A.,

pension increased .

2034

Jones, Horace P. , Kiowa Allottee,

fee-simple patent to heir of..

365

Jones, J. H.,

deficiency appropriation for services... 661, 1395

Jones, James W.,

payment to...

1771

Jones, John M.,

pension increased .

1735

Jones, John Paul,

appropriation for statue to memory of..

224

commission; duties ...

224

site; Capitol and Library grounds ex-

cluded...

224

addresses at commemorative exercises, to

be printed

2834

thanks of Congress to Ambassador Porter

for recovering body of....

829

Jones, John T.,

pension increased

1557

Jones, John W.,

pension increased

2096

Jones, Joseph A.,

pension increased

1808

Jones, Josephine S. (widow) ,

pension increased

2227

Jones, Lydia (widow),

pension.

1824

Jones, Lydia Ann (widow),

pension increased .

1819

Jones, Mahala (widow),

pension increased .

2012

Jones, Mahala M. (widow), pension increased ..
Jones, Martha Ann (widow) , * pension increased .
Jones, Mary C. (widow) , pension increased .
Jones, Meshack L., pension increased .
Jones, Orange G., pension increased .
Jones, Rachel Peters, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Jones, Richard, pension increased
Jones, Samuel, pension increased
Jones, Samuel J., pension increased .
Jones, Sarah, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Jones, Sarah A. ( widow),
pension... Jones, Thomas,
pension increased
Jones, William D., pension increased
Jordan, Henry, pension increased
Jordan, Henry B., pension increased .
Jordan, Henry D. , pension increased .

Page. 2521 2253 2756 1524 1450
380 2703 1980 1530 357 2349 2636 2021 ... 1642 1532 2156

Jordan, James R.,

pension increased .

1621

Jordan, Josephine L. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2040

Jordan, Margaret A. (widow),

pension.

2749

Jordan River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1088

Joprednasni,oSnteipnchreenaDs.ed, .

2650

Jordan, William W.,

pension increased .

2456

Joseph, Henry C.,

pension increased .

2386

Joseph's Band, Nez Perce Indians, appropriation for support, etc. , of...
Joshua, John, Yankton Siour. Allottee, investigation of allotment to .

377, 1050 373

Joslin, William H.,

pension increased .

1536

Joslyn, Daniel C.,

pension increased .

2002

Joslyn, Susan J. F. (widow),

pension increased .

1930

Joslyn, William H. , pension increased
Josselyn, Nathan W., pension increased ..

1703 1617

Jourdan, Eva, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

381

Joyce, Henry, pension increased .
Joyce, Joseph B. , pension increased ..

2631 2782

Joyce, Margaret F. (widow),

pension increased .

1934

Joyce, Martha (widow),

pension increased .

2525

Joyeux, Augustus,

pension increased .

1728

INDEX.

3449

Juan de Fuca Strait , Wash., appropriation for light vessel, Swiftsure Bank .
repealed. light vessel authorized at Swiftsure Bank .
appropriation for.. Judd, Lisania (widow),
pension increased Judd, Zadok K.,
pension increased .

Page.
711 842 996 1319
1945
2723

Judge- Advocate-General, Navy,

appropriation for assistant to, clerks, etc. 423, 969

deficiency appropriation for salary, sol-

icitor in office of .

646

pay of solicitor in office, increased .

555

Judge- Advocate-General's Department, Army,

appropriation for pay of officers ; longev-

ity..

244, 1162

deficiency appropriation for office, San

Francisco..

646

Judge- Advocate-General's Office, War Depart-

ment,

appropriation for clerks, etc ..

418, 964

Judges, appropriation for Supreme Court . for circuit .

446, 991 446, 992

for district.

447, 992

for retired..

497, 992

deficiency appropriation for district, Ala-

bama northern district..

1390

Nebraska, additional..

1390

Ohio southern district, additional .

1390

Oklahoma ...

1390

appointment for United States court, for

China; salary; tenure...

816

designation permitted of judge from another

circuit to act for disabled district .. 1417

Judgments,

deficiency appropriation for paying Court

of Claims ...

44, 664, 1399

Cherokee cases.

664

for paying, United States courts.... 663, 1399 for paying, Indian depredation claims.. 44,

644, 1400

for paying, against internal-revenue offi-

cers .

44, 665, 668, 1401

for paying, against District of Colum-

bia

643, 1380

Judicial Districts (see United States Courts).

Judicial Expenses,

appropriations for..

446, 991

Junction City, Kansas, Grand Army Post,

obsolete bronze cannon donated to ....... 839

Juneau, Alaska,

inspector of hulls and boilers provided for

port of....

106

Jurors, Oklahoma,

provisions for selecting grand and petit....... 11

Jurors, United States Courts,

appropriation for fees...

755, 1361

deficiency appropriation for fees.

41 ,

48, 205, 669, 1390

in New Mexico ; selection , etc. , for Fed-

eral cases...

552

qualifications, etc. , Porto Rico district

court.

466

Judson, Calvin,

pension increased .

2391

Julian, George N.,

pension increased .

2457

Jury Commissioners, United States Courts,

appropriation for compensation ... 755, 1361

Justices ofthe Peace,

appropriation for fees, acting as commis-

sioners ..

755, 1361

Justices ofthe Peace, D. C.,

Page.

appropriation for salaries and expenses;

number reduced to six ....

507, 1147

temporary service as acting judge of juve-

nile court..

73

warrants of arrest to be issued by..

126

Justices ofthe Supreme Court,

appropriation for Chief and associate.... 446, 991 Juvenile Court, D. C.,

appropriation for judge, probation offi-

cers ...

507, 1147

for expenses.

507, 1147

  124 * RRRR 82 ° EFER     

deficiency appropriation for contingent expenses..
established; title..
judge ; appointment, term, salary. temporary service of justice of the peace.. probation officers; salaries, duties ..
care over paroled child...
clerk; salary, duties, etc.. jurisdiction over persons under 17 years...
offenses against United States laws ; exceptions ....
District laws, etc. for protection of children. care of defendant children .
over delinquent children ... concurrent, over parents neglecting, etc. ,
children ...

1379 73 73 73 73 73 73 73
73 74 74 74 74
74

further powers , commitments, etc...

74

definition of "defendant," " neglected, "

and "delinquent ".

74

punishment for removing, etc. , committed

children...

75

prosecutions; jury trials ; judgments ...

75

riot, conspiracy, etc. , cases not changed .... 75

jury service; judgments ....

75

proceedings; fines; collateral securities,

etc ...

76

punishment for embezzling fines, etc.

76

oaths; monthly terms ..

76

clerk to receive fines, etc.; deposits ..

77

auditing accounts

77

appeal proceedings ; security for costs, etc.

service of marshal's deputy.

78

punishment for encouraging, etc., delin-

quencies....

78

in effect July 1, 1906 ; inconsistent laws

repealed .

78

division of expenses..

78

K.

K Street Bridge, D. C., appropriation for reconstructing , over Rock Creek...
Kaibab Indians, Utah,
appropriation for support, etc.. Kaisted, Mary (widow),
pension... Kalamazoo , Mich. ,
acquiring land for, and extending public building at, authorized ..
appropriation for.. Kalamazoo River, Mich.,
appropriation for improvement of.. Kalanianaole, Hon. J. K.,
deficiency appropriation for contested -election expensés...
Kalorama Avenue, D. C.,
deficiency appropriation for extending... for joining.
Kalorama Road, D. C., extension authorized..

492 376 2481
775 790 1097
661 641 1377 616

3450

INDEX .

Kalsem, Soren V., pension increased .

Page. Keeler, Eleanora A. (widow) , 2550 pension increased

Page. 1642

Kamerer, John, pension increased
Kane, James H., pension increased
Kanline, Henry, pension increased ..

Keene, N. H.,

2175 acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

783

1632

appropriation for.

Keener, John C. ,

795 1

2800 pension increased .

1680

Kansas,

Keep Committee,

appropriation for Indian service in..... 347, 1029 deficiency appropriation for salaries ......; 663

Garden City Forest Reserve, established .. 3131 Keeting, Clara A. (widow),

1

Kansas City, Kans. ,

pension increased

2740

bridge authorized across Missouri River at.. 884 Keffer, Francis J.,

sale of Wyandotte cemetery ; proceeds, etc. 348 pension increased

1842

Kansas City, Mo.,

Kehl, Germany,

appropriation for pneumatic tube, etc. ,

classification and salary of consul..

100

mail service ..

472, 1211 appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

1

deficiency appropriation for public build-

Kehlbeck, William H.,

ing...

31 pension increased .

2654

bridge authorized across Missouri River at . 196 Keim, De B. Randolph,

time extended for bridging Missouri River

between Sibley and...

911

deficiency appropriation for services, Rochambeau monument ceremonies .... 644

Kansas City, Saint Joseph and Excelsior

Keith, Anna F. (widow),

Springs Railway Company,

pension increased.

1511

may bridge Missouri River at Kansas City,

Keith, Phoebe (widow),

Mo...

196 pension...

1874

Kansas Indians , Okla.,

Keith, Thomas E. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 362, 1043 pension increased

1835

Kaogan, Rosanna (widow),

Kell , Blanche M. (widow),

pension increased .

2773 pension increased ..

2504

Karns, Nicholas, pension increased

Kellen, Charles H. , 2168 military record corrected ...

18

2821

Kasson, James W.,

Keller, Traugett F.,

pension increased .

2520 may be appointed second lieutenant , Army,

Kasto, Indian Allottee,

notwithstanding age.

1225

allotment patent may be canceled ....

361 Keller, Harvey B. F.,

Kasto, Thomas, Indian Allottee,

pension increased

2689

allotment patent may be canceled ......

361 Keller, Jacob,

Katalla Bay, etc., Alaska,

pension increased

1741

preliminary examination of, to be made for

Keller, John,

harbor...

1111 pension increased

1604

Kauffman, Joseph, pension increased
Kaufman, Abraham M. , pension increased

Keller, Lydia A. (widow),

1851 pension....

1768

Keller, Samuel,

1667 pension increased

2526

Kavanaugh, Kate H. (widow),

Kelley, George W.,

pension increased .

1695 pension..........

2232

Kayser, Will E., * pension...

Kelley, James, Kentucky Volunteers,

2006 pension increased .

-1431

Keach, John C., pension increased

Kelley, James, Mexican War,

2320 pension increased

2582

Kean, John G., alias Cain, pension increased ..

Kelley, John B. ,

2379 deficiency appropriation for services ..

43

Kearney, Elizabeth Jane (widow),

Kellner, Amos,

pension increased .

1628 pension increased

2629

Kearney, Johanna (widow),

Kellogg, Francis M.,

pension increased ..

2254 pension increased .

1595

Kearney, Margaret (widow) ,

Kellogg, James B. ,

pension increased .

2423 pension increased

1656

Kearney, Nebr.,

Kelly, Clarendon,

acquiring site and erecting public building

pension increased .

2655

at, authorized

780 Kelly, Elvira A. (widow) ,

appropriation for..

793, 1299 pension increased .

2258

Kearns, Michael, pension increased

Kelly, Esther C. (widow) ,

2173 pension increased

2612

Keating, Edward,

Kelly, Richard H.;

pension increased

1775 pension....

1580

Keating, George H.,

Kelly, Thomas,

granted honorable discharge ....

2466 pension increased

2256

Keck, Franklin J., pension increased .

Kelly, Walden,

1730 pension increased .

2243

Keck, Gilbert H.,

Kelly, William ,

pension increased

2729 pension increased

1993

Keech, William K.,

Kelsey, Charles W.,

pension increased .

... 1667 pension increased

1986

i

INDEX .

3451

Kelsey, George W., pension increased
Kelsey, Roswell J., pension increased.
Kelso, William, pension increased
Kelso, Winchester,
deficiency appropriation for refund to........... Kemp, James H.,
pension increased
Kempa, J. W. I., refund of inheritance tax to ..
Kendall, Oliver L. , pension increased
Kendig, Sarah Ann (widow) , pension increased
Kenisston, Charles W. , pension increased
Kennan, Marshall T., pension increased
Kennebec River, Me.,

Page. 2430 1668 2757
40 1972 2338 1684 2584 2605 2707

appropriation for enforcing anchorage regu-

lations, Bath....

702, 1309

for improvement of; 'contracts . 737, 1074

Gardiner to Augusta..

1344

Kennedy, Elizabeth C. (widow) ,

pension increased

2212

Kennedy, John C. ,

pension increased

1504

Kennedy, Joseph,

pension increased

2722

Kennedy, Justin C.,

pension increased

2667

Kennedy, Lincoln, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

365

Kennedy, Rhoda (mother),

pension.

1768

Kennedy, William,

pension increased

2286

Kennedy, William,

payment to ..

2661

Kenner, William F.,

pension increased .

1795

Kenney, Ella E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2218

Kenney, Harriet C. (widow),

pension increased .

2394

Kenney, James, pension increased
Kenney, James W., payment to..

2635 2824

Kenney, Martha A. (widow),

pension increased

1999

Kennish, Robert,

pension...

1861

Kenny, Nicholas D. ,

pension increased

2390

Kenosha, Wis., appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1100

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1299

Kensington and Eastern Railroad Company,

time extended for bridging Calumet River

by.......

51

Kent, Lindley C. , and Joseph Jenkins,

deficiency appropriation for, sureties on

bond of Frank A. Webb...

29

Kent, Nathaniel R.,

pension increased

1647

Kent, Thomas H.,

payment to..

2220

Kentucky,

Page.

bridges authorized across Tug Fork of Big

Sandy River between West Virginia

and ....

891

Kentucky and West Virginia Bridge Company,

may bridge Tug Fork of Big Sandy River,

at Williamson, W. Va..

1004

Kentucky River, Ky.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1344

Locks and Dams Nos. 12 and 13 ; con-

tracts ....

1094

Lock and Dam No. 1

1096

bridge authorized across, at Beattyville,

Ky ........

819

Kenyon Street NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands for extend-

ing, Seventeenth to Mount Pleasant

street ...

856

appropriation for .

856

Keokuk, Iowa,

appropriation for road to national ceme-

tery; conditions ...

1347

Kephart, Lucy A. (widow),

pension increased .

2376

Kerosene, etc. , Oils , D. C.,

license tax to store and sell ...

13

Kerr, Dennis M., deficiency appropriation for services...
Kerr, Jane Elizabeth (widow), pension increased ..
Kerr, Mary A. (widow), pension increased .
Kerwin, Mathew, pension increased .

661, 1395 2207 2538 2226

Ketcham, J. H., late a Representative in Con-

gress ,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow . 1396

Kewanee, Ill.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

778

appropriation for....

792, 1299

Kewaunee, Wis.,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made ..

1118

Keweenaw Canal, Mich.,

preliminary examination of, to be made for

harbor of refuge..

1114

Key, Harvey,

pension increased .

2685

Key West, Fla.,

appropriation for public works , naval sta-

tion ..

565, 1187

for marine hospital, breakwater . for improvement of harbor...

701, 1307 1086

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made ..

1112

use of embankment adjoining barracks... 1169

Keyport, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 1079

Keys, Jasper H.,

pension increased .

1496

Keys, John,

pension increased .

2135

Keyser, Henry C.,

pension increased .

1902

Keystone Camp, No. 2879, Modern Woodmen

of America,

granted lands for cemetery, Keystone , S.

Dak ..

128

Kickapoo Indian Reservation , Kans., appropriation for Indian school ...

347, 1029

Kickapoo Indians, Kans ., appropriation for fulfilling treaty with..... 347

treaty funds to credit of; per capita pay-

ments ...

1030

3452

INDEX .

Kickapoo Indians, Okla.,

Page.

appropriation for support, etc., of..... 362, 1043

for paying retained fund to Mexican

Kicking Kickapoos ...

362

alienation restrictions removed from allot-

ments to nonresident adult, and affil-

iated Indians, Oklahoma and Indian

Territory.

363

leases permitted ..

363

Kicking Kickapoo Indians, Mexican, appropriation for paying retained fund ;

payments....

362

Küchli, Joseph,

pension increased

2716

Killey, Philip,

pension increased

2212

Killian, Emily (widow),

pension increased

2269

Kilpatrick, John, pension increased
Kimball, David P., pension increased

2654 2165

Kimball, Edward L.,

pension increased

1623

Kimball, Herman A. ,

pension increased .

1607

Kimball, William B. ,

pension increased

1439

Kimball, William H.,

pension increased .

2422

Kincaid, Jeremiah, pension increased

.... 1709

Kindle, Isaac,

pension increased .

1998

Kindy, L. A.,

payment to..

2661

King, Adam, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

380

King, Alida (widow),

pension increased

1756

King, Augustus D. ,

pension increased

1804

King, David, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

380

King, Edward,

payment to..

2151

deficiency appropriation for ..

1374

King, George,

pension increased .

2068

King, James S.,

pension..

2167

King, Josias R.,

pension increased .

2016

King, Martin C.,

pension increased .

1816

King, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased .

1789

King, Roseanna (widow),

pension..

2486

King, Samuel F.,

pension increased .

1533

King, Thomas D. ,

pension increased .

3634

Kings Mountain Battle Ground, S. C.,

appropriation for monument on; condi-

tions ..

286

approval of title ; care, etc. , of grounds .. 286

Kings Mountain Centennial Association ,

to secure title, etc. , of battle ground; care,

etc ..

286

Kingsbury, John E.,

pension increased

2253

Kingsley, Eugene P.,

pension increased .

1446

Kingston, Anna E. (widow) ,

Page.

pension increased

2059

Kingston Earthquake,

loan of tents, stores, etc. , for sufferers, rati-

fied ..

1175

Kingston, Jamaica, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire.....

99 294, 924

Kingston, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building.

1299

límit of cost increased , public building .. 773

Kingston, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul...

100

Kinkerly, Jacob,

pension increased .

2253

Kinney, Andrew E.,

pension increased .

2042

Kinney, Holaway W.,

pension increased.

2128

Kinney, Patrick,

pension increased .

2641

Kinnison, Alexander,

pension..

1670

Kinnison, Newton,

pension increased .

2098

Kinsauls, Emsley,

pension increased .

1586

Kinsman, Joseph H.,

pension increased

2745

Kinsman, Josiah B.,

pension increased .

2685

Kinston, N. C.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for..

793, 1299

Kiowa Agency, Okla.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 361 , 1043

Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache Indian Reser-

vation, Okla.,

allotment to children of enrolled tribal

members ; limit.....

1043

reservation of grazing land repealed ..

213

opening to entry of pasture and wood re-

serves ..

213

sales at auction, etc .; proceeds.

213

prior leases...

213

terms; issue of patents.

213

regulation, etc ...

214

disposal of lands unsold , etc.

214

allotments to children born since June

6, 1900....

214

preference right to purchase by settlers on

pasture reserve No. 3..

550

appraisal by Commission ; proceeds..

550

proclamation opening to homestead entry, pasture and wood reserves in .... 3233

return requested from President of bill

opening to entry .

2830

Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache Indians,

town sites on common lands of, in Okla-

homa ...

80

sales; school blocks, liquor trade, etc.... 80

expenses; disposal of proceeds ...

80

Kiowa, etc., Indians , Okla.,

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 361, 1043

Kirby, Lindsay,

pension increased

1664

Kirch, John,

pension increased

2422

Kircher, Joseph, pension increased.
Kirchner, Gottlieb, pension increased
Kirk, David A. , pension increased .

2214 2640 1736

8888

INDEX.

3453

Kirk, Firman F., pension increased .

Page. Knight, Charles W. , 1729 pension increased

Page. ... 1443

Kirk, George B.,

Knight, Florence B. ,

pension...

1892 pension..

1673

Kirk, Mary (widow),

Knight, Isaac P. ,

pension increased .

2551 pension increased

1574

020 Kirkland, Mary C. (widow),

Knight, Matthew A.,

pension...

1598 pension increased

1611

Kirkpatrick, David W.,

Knight, Roy E.,

pension increased .

2035 pension increased

2123

Kirkpatrick, William,

Knighten, Joseph E.,

pension increased .

2607 pension increased .

2650

Kirkwood, William, pension increased .
Kirsch, Nicholaus, pension increased .
Kissimmee River, Fla. ,

Knights of Pythias, Supreme Lodge, 2420 charter amended ; property holdings in-

creased ...

934

2400 Knowles, Eli W.,

pension increased

1944

appropriation for improvement of......... 1086 Knowlton, William P. ,

Kissinger, John R., pension..
Kitchen, Uriah, pension increased.
Kitchin, Elias C. , pension increased
Kite, Alvin N. D. , pension increased .
Kittitas County, Wash.,

pension...

2220

2816 Knox, Frank,

payment to .

2661

2533 Knox, Robert T.,

pension increased

1470

1968 Knox, Tugaloo R. , authorized to maintain bridge across Tuga-

2433

loo River, S. C. and Ga

122

Knox's Bridge,

bridge authorized across Columbia River

operation of, across Tugaloo River, S. C.

between Douglas County and.................. 109

and Ga., authorized ..

122

Kizer, Sarah (daughter),

Knoxville National Cemetery, Tenn.,

pension....

2357 appropriation for superintendent's lodge ,

Klamath Agency, Oreg.,

etc ...

741

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of.

366, 1045

Klamath Forest Reserve, Cal.,

proclamation establishing

3001

Klamath Indian Reservation, Oreg.,

cession of portion ; area..

367

payment for ceded lands, etc.

367

per capita; trust fund ; civilization , etc. 367

treaty rights unimpaired.....

368

for sidewalks, road to

1348

Knoxville, Tenn.,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized..

776

appropriation for..

791, 1299

Knudsen, Bertha F. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

356

Knudsen, Mary, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

appropriation for carrying agreement into

Kobe, Japan,

effect ...

368 classification and salary of consul .

exchange of lands adjudged to California

appropriation for clerk hire.

and Oregon Land Company........ 368

for Seamen's Institute ..

99 293, 924 295, 925

Kleckner, John P., pension increased

Koch, Catharine (widow),

1794 pension increased ..

2751

Klein, Charles,

Koch, Eva B. (widow),

pension increased

1811 pension...

1587

Klindt, Maria R. (widow) ,

Kohl, Jacob,

pension increased

2517 pension increased

2400

Kline, Jacob L., pension increased

Kohler, Elizabeth (widow) ,

2130 pension..

1977

Kline, Ray E. (widow),
pension... Kling, William, ·
pension increased
Klink, Henry G., pension increased

Kohler, George W.,

1731 pension increased

2064

Kokomo, Ind.,

2819 acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

1801

appropriation for.

794

Klocker, Oscar, appropriation for refund to ..

Kolb, E. J., alias E. J. Kulb,

722 granted honorable discharge ....

2154

Knapp, Francis G., pension increased
Knapp, George W., pension increased.

Koonce, Frank D. ,

2619 -

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses..

48

1463 Kootenai County, Idano,

Knapp, Sophia A. (widow), pension increased.

granted strip of land for highways . Fort

1451

Sherman abandoned reservation .... 456

Knecht, Henry S., pension increased .

Kootenai Forest Reserve, Mont. ,

1946 proclamation establishing .

3225

Knight, Annie E., deficiency appropriation for..
Knight. Burgoyne, pension increased .
Knight, Charles H., pension increased

Kootenai Forest Reserve, Mont . and Idaho,

1391 proclamation adding lands to...

3253

Korea,

1788 appropriation for interpreters at consulates

in .. 1452 + for marshals, consular courts ..

294, 924 294, 925

3454

INDEX.

Korea- Continued .

Page.

appropriation for expenses of prisoners .. 295, 925

for prison keeper.

295, 925

appeals from consular courts in, to United

States court for China

814

plan for consular buildings in, to be prepared..
Koyakewin, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to...
Kraut, F., payment to..
Kreger, Andrew F., pension increased
Kreidler, Samuel G., pension increased

292 357 2413 2017 2256

Kress, William , pension increased
Kretsinger, David L., pension increased
Krieger, Peter C., pension increased
Kriner, Frederick, pension increased .
Krom, John H., pension increased .
Krueger, August, pension increased
Krueger, C. W., payment to..
Kruger, Nettie G. (widow), pension increased .
Krumdick, Heinrick, pension increased

1491 1625 1807 2496
2390 2256 2661 2390 1686

Kubik, W. F.,

payment to..

2661

Küchler, Mary (widow),

pension increased

2574

Kuhn, Estelle (widow),

pension....

1598

Kuhns, Dora H. (widow),

pension...

1459

Kumler, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2455

Kunkel, Ferdinand,

pension increased .

2624

Kures, Jacob,

pension increased .

2547

Kurz, Frederick,

pension increased .

2719

Kuina, or Henry, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

378

L.

L Street Northwest, D. C., sale of house No. 204 , authorized ..
La Batte, John, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
La Batte, Mason S. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to .
La Batte, Sarah, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
La Coste, Edward, pension increased .
La Flesche, Nora, or Ne ka ga he, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to La Fleur, Lauraette (widow),
pension... La Forge, Andrew,
pension increased .
La Fromboise, Joseph, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to.
La Grande, Peter, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..

820 373 373 373 2572
356 2787 1734 374 374

La Guaira, Venezuela,

Page.

classification and salary of consul.

100

La Monte, Collins, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ......

373

La Paz, Mexico, classification and salary of consul ......... 100

La Pointe Agency, Wis.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 379, 1051

La Pointe Indian Reservation, Wis.,

allotments to Indians on , extended ..

1217

town site set apart for Indians on

-381

appraisal and sale of lots ; conditions... 381

cemetery for Indians ; sale of timber; pro-

ceeds..

382

La Rochelle, France,

classification and salary of consul .....

100

La Rochelle, Frank, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

374

La Sal Forest Reserve, Utah and Colo.,

proclamation establishing

3190

La Trappe River, Md. ,

appropriation for improvement of.

1081

beacon lights authorized at ..

995

appropriation for...

1319

LapeVnasqiuoen, iJnocrhenasHe.d,

2682

Labatt, Elizabeth L. H. (widow),

pension increased..

1626

Labor Bureau , Department of Commerce and

Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner, chief

statistician, clerks, etc ..

442,988

for per diem, experts, etc...

443,988

for reports, and materials for..

443,988

for share, International Labor Associa-

tion ...

443, 988

for stationery, books, etc ..

443

for books, etc ..

988

for rent.

446, 991

investigation of condition of woman and

child workers by......

866

Labor Conditions,

admission of certain aliens in detriment to,

may be refused..

898

appropriation for expenses, restricting im-

migration of certain aliens detri-

mental to.....

1330

Labor, Contract,

admission of alien , excluded ........

899

Labor Representative,

to be appointed a trustee, Foundation for

Promotion of Industrial Peace ...... 1242

Lacey, Beverly M. K. ,

pension increased .

2213

Ladd, Wesley J.,

pension increased.

2279

Ladner, Frank J.,

land patent issued to..

2824

Lafayette, Ind.,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized .......

775

appropriation for.......

790, 1299

Lafontaine, Robert,

pension increased ..

2383

Lagrange, Ga.,

bridge authorized across Chattahoochee

River, near...

893

Lajord, Mary,

deficiency appropriation for........

1395

Lake Champlain, Vt., preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1117

Lake Champlain, Vt. and N. Y ,

appropriation for improvement of channel

in Narrows .

1074

INDEX .

3455

Lake Charles, La.,

Page.

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized..

779

appropriation for..

..... 792, 1299

Lake County, Ind., bridge authorized across Calumet River in. 877
construction of wharves, etc., into Lake

Michigan, adjoining certain lands in ,

permitted..

829, 834

may bridge Calumet River ..

877

Lake Erie,

appropriation for Pointe au Pelce light-

vessel...

713, 1321

tunnel under, for Buffalo water supply,

authorized...

532

Lake Erie and Ohio River Ship Canal Com-

pany,

corporate powers granted ..

809

subject to interstate commerce regula-

tions ..

811

location, construction, and operation of

canal authorized .

811

taking of lands, altering highways, rail-

roads, etc...

811

use of sources of water supply, rivers,

ponds, etc...

812

restriction on use of Niagara River ..

812

maintenance of terminals, electric facili-

ties, etc ....

812

use of beaches, water courses , etc ..

812

approval of plans, etc.; maintenance of

lights ...

812

tolls, charges, etc. , subject to approval of

Interstate Commerce Commission;

changes..

813

to be lawful military and post routes.

813

time of construction ...

813

litigation in State courts for damages..

813

proceedings under right of eminent do-

main ...

814

subject to State taxation.

814

nonliability of United States for indebted-

ness, etc .. ed

814

Lake Huron s ch, thoriz

rtins ef

lidghet vMeissel au

off Ma

Re ,

323

appropriation for.

659

Lake Michigan,

appropriation for naval training station . 556, 1178

construction , of wharves, etc. , into, Lake

County, Ind., permitted ...

829, 834

Lake Pontchartrain, La.,

preliminary examinations of, to be made.... 1113

Lake Saint Clair, Mich. , range lights, Isle aux Peches, authorized.. 323

appropriation for......

711

Lake Schutte Cemetery Corporation, may sell part of grant in North Dakota .......... 800

Lake Superior,

appropriation for lighting Saint Louis and

Superior bays ..

713, 1320

deficiency appropriation for range lights,

Superior, Wis..

659

light and fog-signal station authorized on

Rock of Ages

323

appropriation for..

711

preliminary examination of, to be made for

harbors of refuge on north shore .

1114

Lake Tahoe Forest Reserve, Cal. (see also Tahoe

Forest Reserve , Cal. and Nev . ) ,

proclamation enlarging, and changing

name to Tahoe Forest Reserve ..... 3163

Lake Union, Wash. ,

appropriation for improvement of water-

way connecting, with Puget Sound . 1108

Lake Washington, Miss.,

Page.

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1114

Lake Washington, Wash. , appropriation for improvement of waterway connecting, with Puget Sound . 1108

construction of ship canal to Puget Sound

from , authorized .

231

modification allowed of channel from Puget

Sound to ...

1108

Lake Winnebago , etc. , Wis., post lights authorized on. appropriation for .

996 . 1319

Lake Winnebago, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbors

on

1101

Lakes, Northern and Northwestern,

appropriation for survey of..

744

Lakin, George W.,

pension increased .

2163

Lamb, Gertrude, Wichita Indian,

allotment of land to ..

364

Lambert, Calvin,

pension increased ..

2142

Lambert, Martha M. (widow),

pension increased..

2420

Lambert, Samuel,

pension increased .

2201

Lamont, Joseph,

pension increased .

2270

Lamoreau, Daniel R.,

pension increased .

2785

Lamoreux, Pardon B.,

pension increased .

2178

Lamphere, Perry,

pension increased .

2755

Lamprey, Daniel,

pension increased .

2116

Lamson, Edwin K.,

pension increased .

2148

Lancaster, Ohio,

'construction of public building authorized

at; nominal site .

778

appropriation for....

792, 1299

purchase of site authorized for public

building..

1236 , 1299

Lancaster, Pa. ,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized...

775

appropriation for..

791, 1300

Land Districts,

created, Billings, Mont.

11

Fairbanks, Alaska..

1232

Glasgow, Mont ..

929

Nome, Alaska .

1232

Williston , N. Dak.

148

Land-Grant Colleges,

constituted depositories of public docu-

ments ..

1014

Land Offices, Indian Territory,

records of discontinued , transferred to dis-

trict court.

139

Lander, Charles,

pension increased ..

1544

Lander, Francis A. ,

pension increased .

2524

Lander, Wyo.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for .

796

Landes, Henry F.,

pension increased .

1677

Landing of the Pilgrims, etc.,

appropriation for aid to monument at

Provincetown , Mass . , to commemo-

rate first.

225

3456

INDEX .

Lands, etc.,

Page. | Lape, Philip,

Page.

appropriation for custody of....

708, 1315 pension increased..

2623

Lands for River and Harbor Improvements,

Laqua, L. F., Indian Allottee,

condemnation proceedings to obtain title

fee-simple title to ..

379

to, at expense of persons, etc .....

196 Larceny,

for locks, dams, etc ..

632 made an extraditable crime in convention

Lands in Severalty to Indians,

with Japan..

2951

appropriation for completing allotments,

Larchmont, N. Y. ,

etc.

325, 1015 appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1077

for surveying and allotting .

328, 1017

allotments on Blackfeet Reservation ,

Mont

1035

on Moqui Reservation, Ariz

1021

to Stockbridge and Munsee tribe...

382

continuing alienation restrictions in discre-

tion of President ..

326

not applicable to Indian Territory lands . 326

Laredo, Tex.,
appropriation for public building ............... Large, William J.,
pension increased..
Larick, Andrew, pension increased .
Larkham, Emily J. (widow),' pension increased .

698, 1300 2621 2335 2718

not liable for debts prior to issue of fee-sim-

Larkin, George T. ,

ple patent...

327 payment to..

2815

on conveyance of fee-simple title, allottees

Larned, Ellen S. (widow),

accorded citizenship...

182 pension increased..

1552

fee-simple title to allottees found compe-

Laroche, Joseph Shunk, Indian Allottee,

tent ..

183 fee-simple title to .

373

restrictions removed ..

183 Laroche, Julia Shunk, Indian Allottee,

lands not liable for prior debts .

183 fee-simple title to .

373

jurisdiction until issue of fee-simple pat-

Larraby, William,

ents..

183 pension increased ..

2348

provisions not applicable to Indian Territory..
allottee dying before end of trust period, land to revert...
fee-simple or proceeds, to heirs .... payment of taxes, from funds due Indians . removal of restrictions to sell for town-site
purposes .. restriction on allotments to full-blood
Choctaws, etc .. leases, etc., permitted .. sales in fee, lands of noncompetent Indians . trust patents to Indians of Columbia and
Colville reservations , Wash. sales permitted allottees .. Lane, Andrew J., pension increased .. Lane, Carel, pension increased .. Lane, John D., pension increased .. Lane, Ritty M. (widow),
pension... Lane, Wilbur F.,
pension increased ..
Lane, William W., pension increased ....
Lang, Jerome, pension increased ..
Langdon, Samuel J. , pension increased ..
Lange, Johanne (mother), pension..
Langeneck, Ernest, pension increased .
Langenhagen, William , payment to..
Langford, John W., pension increased .
Langley, Orlando H. , pension increased ..

183
183 183 1016 373
144 144 1018
55 55 2170 2363 2765
2481 2054  1458
2180
1942 2566 2206
2661
1555 2145

Larrance, Joseph S.,

pension increased ...

1981

Larsen, Berge,

pension increased ..

2393

Larsen, Bottol,

pension increased ..

1732

Larson, George,

pension..

1597

Larson, Severt,

pension increased ..

2530

Las Animas Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

proclamation establishing .

3289

Lasley, George W.,

pension increased ..

2506

Lasley, Parthena (widow),

pension increased..

2496

Lassen Peak Forest Reserve, Cal.,

proclamation establishing

3063

Lasswell , Ada J. (daughter),

pension..

1973

Latham, Calvin M.,

pension increased .

2075

Latham, Parris J.,

pension increased ..

2328

Lathrop, Albert,

pension increased ..

1521

Laudahn, William,

pension increased..

2062

Laudner, Sabastian,

pension increased ..

1538

Laughner, Elias,

pension increased..

2728

Launches, Power,

gasoline for, allowed on vessels not carry-

ing passengers for hire.........

204

Launches, Steam,

less than 10 tons, may have one person as

pilot and engineer...

194

Laundries, Army,

outside work permitted by; use of re-

ceipts ...

251, 1167

Langlois, Mary Ann, Indian Allottee,

Launt, Albert,

2625

alienation restrictions removed ..

374 pension increased ..

Langmaid, Samuel, pension increased ..

Lavender, Martha (widów) ,

2775 pension increased...

2476

L'Anguille River, Ark.,

Lavine, John,

2748

appropriation for improvement of.

1093 granted honorable discharge .

INDEX .

3457

3 9

Law, Elizabeth S. (widow), pension increased...

Page. League Island Navy- Yard, Pa., 1542 appropriation for public works

Page. 564, 1187

Law Librarian, Library of Congress,

for marine barracks, officers ' quarters ... 1191

appropriation for preparing indexes, di-

Leahy, John E.,

gests, and compilations of laws un-

pension increased ..

2321

der

753, 946 Leake, Adam,

for additional compensation

753, 946 pension increased ..

2596

Law Library,

Learned, Mary O. (widow) ,

appropriation for custodian, assistants ... 399, 945 pension...

2787

Lauder, James M.,

Leary, Ellen E. (mother),

pension increased .

2334 pension...

2010

Lawley, James J., pension increased .
Lawrence, Albert B. (son) ,
pension.. Lawrence, Cornelius H.,
pension increased .
Lawrence, Gilson, pension increased .
Lawrence, Joseph, pension increased .

Leases, Five Civilized Tribes,

2769 approval of Secretary of Interior necessary. 145

Leases, Indian Territory,

1823 filing in agent's office, deemed construc-

tive notice...

.. 1026

2506 Leathers, Charles,

pension increased .

2334

1916 Leathers, Clara T. (widow),

pension..

1552

2190 Leavenworth, Kans. ,

Lawrence, Kans.,

appropriation for Indian school ........ 347, 1029

Lawrence, Oliver,

pension increased .

2356

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home .

747, 1354

for penitentiary, construction maintenance ..

750, 1357 756, 1362

Lawrence, Sidney A., pension increased .

1918 . deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Soldiers 'Home.... 34, 1383

Lawrence, William,

pension increased ..

2104

Laws, Indexes, etc. , of,

appropriation for preparing, for Congress,

etc ...

753, 946

Laws of Congress,

appropriation for editing.

402, 948

number increased for distribution by De-

partment of Justice...

1426

Laws, Revision and Codification of, joint special committee to report, etc. , on .. 1423

Laws, Revision of Criminal, etc.,

commission on, to complete work by De-

cember 15, 1906 ..

754

Leavenworth Monument Committee, General

Henry, obsolete cannon donated for monument to . 839

Leaves of Absence,

appropriation for, Government Printing

Office .

761, 1368

deficiency appropriation for, Government Printing Office, transfer of appro-

priation . Leaves of Absence, Army,

44, 120, 1398

computation of, to officers in the Philip-

pines..

1171

Leavitt, John,

pension increased ....

1457

Lawson, Nathan, pension increased ..
Lawton, Matilda E. (widow), pension increased ..

Lebanon, Ky.,

2533 acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

1668

appropriation for..

792, 1300

Lawton, Okla.,

Ebanon, Pa. ,

amount allowed for waterworks, increased.. 62 appropriation for public building ..

698

Lake terms of court... Layland, Sydney,
payment to..

275 Lebo, James,

pension increased .

1657

1769 Lecturers, Alien,

Layton, Wesley,

not excluded admission under contract .... 899

pension increased..

2607 Ledgerwood, Samuel,

Lazelle, Julia, Indian Allottee,

pension increased.

2661

fee-simple title to .

365 Lee, Arthur M.,

Le Blanc, Thomas,

pension increased ..

2074

appropriation for payment to heirs of...... 350 Lee, Charles, Mexican War (Connecticut),

Le Clere, Julia, Indian Allottee,

pension increased...

2050

fee-simple title to

349 Lee, Charles, Mexican War ( Virginia),

Le Hundra, Frederick,

pension increased...

2590

pension increased ..

1538 Lee, George W. ,

Le Suer, Melvin L. , alias James French,

payment to..

2661

pension increased ..

2315 Lee, John B.,

Leach, James D.,

pension increased .

1931

pension increased ..

1979 Lee, Melissa S. (widow),

Leach, William A. ,

pension increased .

1433

pension increased ..

2553 Lee, Melvin J.,

pension increased .

1620

Lead, S. Dak.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for...

793, 1300

Lee, Pinkney W. H., pension increased .
Lee, Richard, H., pension increased .

1629 .. 1920

Leadville Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

Lee, William,

proclamation establishing

3013 pension increased .

1617

Leaf River, Miss . ,

Lee, William H..

appropriation for improvement of ..

1088 pension increased .

1862

3458

INDEX.

Leech Lake Agency, Minn. ,

Page

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 349, 1032

Leech, Robert K.,

pension increased .

2708

Leeds, England,

classification and salary of consul .....

100

Lefler, William A. ,

pension increased .

2377

Leftwich, Camillus B. ,

pension increased .

1432

Legal Proceedings, may be conducted in any district by Attorney-General , special counsel , etc. 816

Legare, Hon. George S.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses...

661

Legations,

appropriation for repairs to premises .... 291, 921

Leghorn, Italy,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Expenses,

appropriation for legislative expenses... 389, 935

for Senate .

389, 935

for Capitol police for Congressional Directory. for House of Representatives .

392, 938
392, 938 392, 938

"during the session " to mean 119 days. 396

to mean 212 days..

942

for Public Printer, etc.

397, 943

estimates for clerks to be submitted .. $397

for Library of Congress ..

397, 943

for Botanic Garden ...

400 , 947

for executive expenses .

400, 947

for President .. for Vice-President .

400, 947 400, 947

for Executive Office ..

400, 947

for Civil Service Commission .

401, 947

for Department of State...

402, 948

personal services restricted to specific

appropriations ....

402

for Treasury Department..

402, 949

collecting internal revenue .

411 , 957

independent treasury..

411, 958

mints and assay offices.. government in the Territories .

413, 960 416, 963

for War Department...

417, 963

details prohibited...

418

public buildings and grounds...

421, 967

State, War, and Navy Department

building..

422, 968

for Navy Department.. for Interior Department..

422, 968 427, 973

surveyors-general.... for Post-Office Department .

434, 979 436, 982

for Department ofJustice.

440 , 985

for Department of Commerce and La-

bor...

441 , 987

for judicial expenses..

446, 991

for United States courts..

446, 991

for Court of Claims ....

448, 993

pay of telephone switch-board operators ,

assistant messengers , etc. , rated... 448, 993

permanently incapacitated persons not to be

paid .....

448,993

estimates for regular expenses to follow ar-

rangements of preceding year.......

448

changes to be submitted by notes..

448

committees to be guided by acts of pre-

vious years...

448

heads of Departments to include all re-

quirements in annual estimates .... 448

restriction on special requests ......

449

transfers in departmental service limited. 449 details of employees outside of District to .

duty in Departments forbidden ..... 449

Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Ex- Page. penses-Continued .

preservation of newspapers by Depart-

ments repealed ....

449

compensation established of Speaker, Vice-

President, and members of Presi-

dent's Cabinet.......

993

Senators, Representatives, Delegates,

and Commissioner from Porto Rico. 994

Legro, Joseph W.,

pension increased .

1631

Lehman, Robert Q.,

payment to ..

2662

Lehn, John,

pension increased .

2596

Leighton, Gancelo,

pension increased .

2347

Leipnitz, William,

pension increased .

1592

Leipzig, Germany, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire..
Leiser, Abraham G., pension increased .

99 294, 924
1981

Leiter, John H.,

pension increased ....

2789

Leland, Louise J. D. (widow),

pension increased ..

1831

Lemhi Agency, Idaho,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

of..

334

* * * 88 88

Lemhi Forest Reserve, Idaho,

proclamation establishing...

3248

Lemhi Indian Reservation,

appropriation for survey, etc...

334

opening to entry ; schedule of lands, im-

provements, etc .....

335

appraisal and sale of improvements ..... 335

rights of purchasers of improvements ;

proceeds .....

335

improvements of missions, etc.

335

Lemhi Indians, Idaho,

appropriation for removal to Fort Hall In-

dian Reservation....

730

for fulfilling treaty with, removed to Fort

Hall Reservation...

1024

Lemly, John, pension increased . 2384

Lemon, Stephen E.,

pension increased .

2281

Lemmon, Henrietta, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

356

Lemmon, Henry, Indian Allottee,

356

fee-simple title to .

Lendsay, James W., pension increased .

2741

Lengle, Jonathan,

pension increased .

1792

Lennon, Michael,

pension increased ..

2077

Lennox, Lewis,

pension increased ....

2337

Lent, Byron,

1454

pension increased ...

Leonard, Lide S. (widow), pension increased... 1493

Leopold, Andrew, pension increased....... 2215

Lepers, Guam,

1189

appropriation for buildings for, etc.

Lepine, Louis,

2033

pension increased....

Leprosy Hospital, Hawaii, :

709

appropriation for; road, landing stage.. 1307

for maintenance ; reappropriation...

INDEX .

3459

Lesley, Margaret (wiow) , pension increased..
Leslie, Clara F. (widow) , pension...

Page. 2791
1922

Lewis, Mary K. (widow), pension ..
Lewis River, Wash.,

Page. 1514

appropriation for improvement of......... 1108

Leslie, James E., pension increased .

Lewis, Slater D. ,

2609 pension increased..

1688

Leslie, Thomas H.,

54

pension increased .

Lewis, Timothy B. ,

2407 pension increased ..

2688

Lesor, Mary, Indian Allottee,

Lewis, William,

fee-simple title to..

356 pension increased .

2767

Lester, John T.,

Lewis, William H. ,

pension increased ..

2370 pension increased .

1724

Lester, R. E., late a Representative in Congress,

Lewis, Winifred E.,

deficiency appropriation for widow..

661 pension.

1518

Letter Balances, etc. , Postal Service,

Lewiston, Idaho,

appropriation for..

476, 1215 acquiring site for public building at, author-

Letter Carriers (see also City, and Rural, De-

ized ..

782

livery, Postal Service) ,

appropriation for.

794

appropriation for city delivery

471, 1210 bridge authorized across Snake River at or

for rural delivery...

477, 1215

near.

98

Lettenmayer, Helen C. (widow), pension increased..
Letts, William F. , pension increased ..

Lexington, Mo.,

-2452

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ..

783

2716

appropriation for.

795

Leuckart, Maria (widow) ,

Lezenby, John,

pension increased ...

1830 pension increased .

1435

Levees, Mississippi River,

Liabilities to National Banks,

allotments by Mississippi River Commission

of individuals not to exceed one-tenth of

for, allowed ...

208

capital and one-tenth of surplus;

Lever, Hon. Asbury F.,

maximum ..

451

deficiency appropriation for contested-

Liability of Common Carriers,

election expenses..

661 for injuries to employees, in interstate com-

Leverett (née Murrell) Bell, Indian Allottee,

merce, etc.

232

alienation restrictions removed...

346

grounds of claim ..

232

Levi, Andrew J., pension increased ..
"Leviathan," Foreign-Built Dredge, to be documented as vessel of States...
Leviness, Emma (widow), pension increased .
Levis, Harriett I., pension increased .

United

1777
204 1462 2342

negligence and contributory negligence for decision of jury..
insurance, etc. , no bar to action. set offif contributed by employer.
time limit from bringing action...
safety-appliance laws not modified . Libby, Lorenzo D. ,
pension increased .. Liberia,

232 232 232 232 233
1794

Levisa Fork, Big Sandy River,

appropriation for improvement of; locks

and dams...

737

appropriation for minister resident and

consul-general..........

287, 917

for secretary of legation..

287, 917

for improvement of; Dam No. 1 ; contracts ..
Levy, Orlando L., pension increased .
Lewis, Albert H., pension increased ..
Lewis and Clark Forest Reserve, Mont. ,
proclamation enlarging.. Lewis and Clarke County, Mont.,
bridge authorized across Missouri River in
Lewis, Atticus, pension increased .

1082 2249 1685 3304 457 2470

Liberty Bridge Company,

may bridge Monongahela River at Pitts-

burg, Pa...

1235

Librarian of Congress,

appropriation for, assistant, etc .. ...... 397, 943

for preparation of newindexes to Statutes

atLarge, etc ..

753

Library Bureau Company,

deficiency appropriation for:

36

Library, D. C. , Free Public,

appropriation for..

487, 1124

Library of Congress,

Lewis, Charles, deficiency appropriation for moiety, immigration-law fine..
Lewis, Ellen C. (daughter), pension...
Lewis, James H. , pension increased .
Lewis, Jesse, pension increased .
Lewis, John S., pension increased .
Lewis, Luke M., pension increased .
Lewis, Margaret (widow), pension...
Lewis, Martha J. (daughter), pension....

660 1784 1633 2500 2444 2449 1842 2564

appropriation for Librarian, assistant,

etc ....

397, 943

for chiefs of divisions , etc.

397, 943

for reading rooms , etc ....

398, 944

for Congressional reference library. for law library.. for copyright office.. for distributing card indexes, etc .. for temporary services.. for Sunday opening..

398, 945 399, 945 399, 945 399, 945 399, 945 399, 945

for purchasing books, periodicals, etc. 399, 945

for contingent expenses..

399, 946

for superintendent of building, clerks,

etc.

399, 946

for engineers, etc ..

400,946

for Sunday opening.

400,946

for fuel , lights, etc ..

400, 946.

3460

INDEX .

Library of Congress-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for furniture , shelves, etc. 400, 947

report on additional book-stack accom-

modation...... for trees, etc., grounds of..

400 734, 1342

for preparation of indexes, digests and

compilations of laws...

753, 946

additional assistants ..

753

for printing and binding .

761, 1368

for Catalogue of Title Entries , Copyright

Office ..

761, 1368

deficiency appropriation for preparing new

index of Statutes at Large..

1399

Barry monument not to be located in

grounds of...

224

Industrial Commission files, etc. , to be

transferred to Department of Com-

merce and Labor ....

1425

John Paul Jones monument not to be lo-

cated in grounds of..

224

Library of Congress, Superintendent of Building and Grounds,

appropriation for, clerks, employees, etc. 399, 946

Licenses of Domestic Vessels,

enrollment and, consolidated in one docu-

ment...

136

renewal by indorsement of collector of

port where lying..

136

surrender, on change of build , owner, etc.. 136

Licensed Pharmacists, D. C. (see Pharmacy

Regulations, D. C.) .

Licenses, D. C.,

regulations for pharmacy.

176

Licenses, Steam Vessels,

masters, etc. , to display within forty-eight

hours ...

897

emergency transfers excepted .

897

Liddell, Robert,

pension increased ....

2766

Liddle, John T.,

pension increased .

1488

Lieb, Hermann,

pension increased ....

1689

Liebal, Rudy, payment to..
Liege, Belgium, classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire.....
Lienallen, Jesse, pension increased ..

2661
100 294, 924
1899

Lieutenant- Colonels, Army, Retired,

on active duty to receive same pay, etc., as

a retired major...

245

Lieutenant-General, Army,

office to cease when vacancy occurs; retired

list not affected...

1160

Life-Saving Service,

appropriation for general superintendent,

clerks, etc...

408, 955

for superintendents .

701, 1307

for keepers....

701, 1308

for crews, etc ...

701 , 1308

Jamestown Exposition..

1308

for telephone, Umpqua River station ,

Oreg ...

1308

for ocean-going revenue cutter for North

Pacific coast .

702

deficiency appropriation for 45, 665, 1401 , 1404

sea-going tug for North Pacific coast author-

ized ..

123

station established at Greenhill, R. I ..

298

Isle of Shoals , N. H ..

849

Neah Bay, Wash..

123

Life-Saving Testimonials,

Page.

appropriation for rescuing shipwrecked

American...

290, 919

Liggett, Robert W.,

granted honorable discharge..........

2064

Light-House Board,

appropriation for chief clerk, clerks, etc. 443, 988

for rent..

446, 991

to prescribe lights, etc., on bridge across Arkansas River, Pine Bluff, Ark... 50

Columbia River, between Douglas and Kittitas counties...
Franklin and Benton counties, Wash. Vancouver, Wash.. Wenatchee, Wash. Cumberland River, Clarksville, Tenn ... Lineport, Tenn Nashville, Tenn .. Delaware River, Trenton, N. J. Missouri River, S. Dak.. Mobile Bay, Ala.. Monongahela River, Brownsville, Pa .. Perdido River, Waters Ferry, Ala .. Sabine River, La. and Tex..
Saint Andrews Bay, Fla... Saint Francis River, Clay County , Ark ..
Madison, Ark... Snake River, Lewiston, Idaho ..
Whitman and Columbia counties, Wash...

110 109
3 7 134 58 135 65 96 11 129 79 8 19
19, 20 90 98
108

59

Tennessee River, Brandons Mill to Bir-

mingham, Ky...

57

Tug Fork of Big Sandy River, William-

son, W. Va..

70

to report stations which may be discontin-

ued ..

997

to employ temporary draftsmen for tenders,

etc.

997

Light-House Establishment, appropriation for supplies. for repairs, etc... for keepers' salaries . for light vessels, etc. for buoyage.. for fog signals . for lighting of rivers . leasing of sites..
for survey of sites.. for oil houses ; limit ..

712, 1319 712, 1320 712, 1320 712, 1320 712, 1320 712, 1320 712, 1320 713, 1320 713, 1321 713, 1321

for lights in channels of Great Lakes .. 713, 1321

for Pointe au Pelee, Lake Erie, light-

vessel...

713, 1321

for Guantanamo , Cuba, service...

713

deficiency appropriation for light vessels . 42, 48, 1405

for supplies.. for repairs, etc. for buoyage.. for keepers. for fog signals .

48, 1405 48, 1405 48, 1405
1405 1405

allowance in accounts of army and navy officers for travel, etc. , on detail to.. 1393

traveling expenses allowed army and navy

officers on duty with ..

997

Light- Houses, Beacons, and Fog Signals,

appropriation for Holland pierhead range, Mich. 710

for Stonington Breakwater, Conn .

710

for Cape Mendocino, Cal...

710

for Point Arena, Cal..

710

for Bonita Point, Cal..

710

for Point Piños, Cal ..

710

for vessel, Swiftsure Bank, Juan de

Fuca Strait

711

repealed ....

842

INDEX.

3461

Light- Houses, Beacons, and Fog Signals Page. Continued .

appropriation for Prudence Island , R. I. ,

land.

1317

for tender, third district .

1317

for depot, Tompkinsville, N. Y. , lamp

shop..

1317

for Milwaukee, Wis. , breakwater.

1317

for Duluth, Minn., range.

1318

for tender for eleventh district .

1318

for Detour, Mich. , lens..

1318

for Point Cabrillo, Cal ..

1318

deficiency appropriation for rebuilding,

etc., eighth district, hurricane, Gulf

of Mexico..

842

for rebuilding, etc. , twelfth district, San

Francisco earthquake..

842

for Point Arguello , Cal...

1405

establishment of light stations, fog signals,

etc., at Isle au Haut, Me.

321

deficiency appropriation for.

659

New London, Conn. , Southwest Ledge.. 322

appropriation for.

1317

Delaware River, Bellevue Range..

322

deficiency appropriation for.

659

Miah Maul Shoal

322

deficiency appropriation for.

659

appropriation for.

1317

Joe Flogger Shoal..

322

deficiency appropriation for.

659

Pungoteague Creek, Va..

322

appropriation for..

711

Potomac River, Ragged Point .

322

deficiency appropriation for.

659

appropriation for..

1317

Milwaukee, Wis. , harbor of refuge.

323

appropriation for...

711

Niagara River range lights .

323

appropriation for..

711

Lake Saint Clair, Mich. , Isle aux Peches. 323

appropriation for...

711

Superior, Wis. , pierhead .

323

deficiency appropriation for.

659

Oahu, Hawaii, Makapuu Point

323

appropriation for..

711

Honolulu, Hawaii..

323

deficiency appropriation for .

659

Point Cabrillo, Cal..

323

deficiency appropriation for.

659

Hinchinbrook Island , Alaska .......

324

appropriation for.. Huntington Harbor, N. Y.
deficiency appropriation for . Passaic, N. J.

711, 1318 995 1393 995

appropriation for.

1318

Horn Island, Miss ..

995

appropriation for.

1319

White Shoal, Mich .

995

appropriation for .

1319

Split Rock, Lake Superior .

996

appropriation for..

1319

Carquinez Strait, Cab..

996

appropriation for..

1319

Molokai Island, Hawaii .

996

appropriation for..

1319

Cape Arago, Oreg..

996

appropriation for .

1319

establishment of fog signal authorized at

Salem, Mass. , Baker Island .

322

deficiency appropriation for..

659

Humboldt Bay, Cal. , entrance

323

appropriation for..

711

Ediz Point, Wash..

324

deficiency appropriation for..

660

VOL XXXIV, PT 355

Light-Houses, Bepcons, and Fog Signals Page. Continued .

establishment of light vessel authorized at

Nantucket Shoals, Mass ..

322

appropriation for. Buzzards Bay, Mass .

710, 1317 322

deficiency appropriation for.

659, 1319

Ambrose Channel , New York Bay .

322

appropriation for..

710, 1317

Lake Huron, Martins Reef, Mich .

323

deficiency appropriation for.. appropriation for.. Columbia River, Oreg. , mouth . appropriation for.
Hedge Fence Shoal , Mass .. appropriation for..

659 1318 324 711, 1318 995 1318

fourth district, relief vessel .

995

appropriation for..

1319

Pacific coast; relief vessel .

996

appropriation for.

1319

Swiftsure Bank, Wash .

996

appropriation for..

1319

keepers' dwellings authorized , Southwest

Pass, La..

323

appropriation for.

711

Sheboygan, Wis....

323

deficiency appropriation for.

659

Menominee, Mich..

323

deficiency appropriation for .

659

appropriation for.

1318

Buffalo, N. Y., Horseshoe Reef.

323

deficiency appropriation for.

659

Tibbetts Point, N. Y..

323

deficiency appropriation for.

659

Cape Mendocino, Cal..

323

appropriation for..

710

Robinson Point, Wash. deficiency appropriation for....

324 " 660'

light stations, buoys, beacons, etc. , author-

ized for Ambrose Channel, New

York Bay..

322

appropriation for..

710

limit of cost increased, Delaware Bay Har

bor of Refuge.

322

appropriation for..

711

Brunswick, Ga. , outer bar vessel.

323

appropriation for..

711, 1317

tender, sixth district .

323

appropriation for.
Rock of Ages, Lake Superior. appropriation for..
Battery Point, Wash. , fog signal . appropriation for..
post lights, Monongahela River.
deficiency appropriation for. Fox River, etc. , Wis .
appropriation for.. tender authorized , third district .
appropriation for. Porto Rican waters
appropriation for. seventh district ..
appropriation for . eighth district ..
appropriation for . twelfth district..
appropriation for . thirteenth district ..
deficiency appropriation for.. appropriation for. Hawaiian waters ..
appropriation for. fifteenth district..
appropriation for.

1317 323 711 , 1318 996 1319 324 660 996 1319 995 1318 995 1319 995 1319 995 1319 324 711, 1318 324 660 1318 996 1319 996 1319

3462

INDEX .

Light-Houses, Beacons, and Fog Signals- Page. | Lightcap, Algernon,

Page.

Continued .

pension increased ..

1518

beacon lights authorized , La Trappe River,

Md ..

995

appropriation for .

1319

wharf for buoys, etc. , authorized at Wash-

ington, D. C ...

995

appropriation for..

1319

range lights established , Grand Island Har-

bor, Lake Superior.......

996

appropriation for..

1319

discontinued, Lloyd Harbor light, N. Y.

995

White Shoal, Mich., vessel ..

995

Milwaukee, Wis. , near North Point .

996

McGulpin Point , Straits of Mackinac .

996

- Grand Island Harbor, Lake Superior.... 996

temporary draftsmen, for new vessels au-

thorized .

324, 997

contracts authorized

660, 996

Lighting, D. C. ,

appropriation for expenses ; maximum

price...

496, 1133

lighting, repairs, etc. , included in

price...

497, 1133

street-designation fixtures.

497, 1133

contracts for high-candlepower lights . 497

for electric arc lighting by underground

wires....

497, 1134

use of balances..

1134

detailed annual reports to be made by gas

companies ....

1133

by electric light, etc. , companies

1134

Lighting of Rivers, etc., appropriation for.

712, 1320

Lighting, Public Buildings,

appropriation for...........

707, 1314

relief light vessel for ninth and eleventh

Lights on Fishing Vessels, etc.,

districts to be equipped with power

international requirements for, to prevent

motor....

996

collisions at sea ..

850

thirty light keepers ' dwellings authorized . 996 Lignites, etc.,

acquiring sites .....

996 appropriation for testing, etc .......... 728, 1335

appropriation for dwellings ..

1319

collection of materials for examination.

Point Dume, Cal. , light station revoked ;

etc ..

72, 1335

balance...

997 Likens, Samuel,

tenders, limit of cost increased , third dis-

pension increased ..

2160

trict ...

858 Lilley, Edward,

sixth district ..

858 pension increased .

1915

eleventh district .

858 Limbird, Richard,

twelfth district ..

858 pension increased .

2619

thirteenth district ....

858 Limoges, France,

contracts; may be built at navy-yards .. 858 classification and salary of consul .......

100

unauthorized aids to navigation made un-

Limpert, George C.,

lawful after January 1, 1907 ; pen-

pension increased .

2475

alty .....

324 Limpus, William F.,

pension increased .

1774

Light- Vessels,

Lincoln Forest Reserve, N. Mex. ,

appropriation for expenses.

712, 13207 proclamation modifying area of .. 3175

for Nantucket Shoals, Mass ..

710, 131

3216

for Ambrose Channel , New York Har-

enlarging

bor.....

710, 1317 Lincoln, Ill.,

for Brunswick, Ga ..

711 , 1317

for, off mouth of Columbia River,.

Oreg..

711, 1318

for Swiftsure Bank, Juan de Fuca

Strait.

711 , 1319

repealed ..

842

for Pointe au Pelee ..

713, 1321

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

778

appropriation for.

792, 1300

Lincoln, Lucius A. ,

pension increased .

1447

Lincoln, Mary E. (vidow),

pension increased .

1929

for Hen and Chickens, Buzzards Bay,

Lincoln Memorial, Hodgenville, Ky.,

Mass ...

1317 appropriation for shaft or tablet for..

1343

for Martins Reef, Lake Michigan :.

1318

deficiency appropriation for expenses . 42, 48, 1405

for Buzzards Bay, Mass..

659

for Martins Reef, Lake Huron..

659

directed , Ambrose Channel , New York

Harbor, sea entrance .

322

Buzzards Bay, Mass .

322

Martins Reef, Lake Huron .

323

Lincoln National Bank, Lincoln, Ill. ,

duplicate gold certificates issued to ..

1714

Lincoln, Nebr.,

terms of court ..

998

Lincoln, William A. ,

pension increased .

1728

Lincoln's Death Place,

appropriation for repairs to building... 737, 1343

Nantucket Shoals, Mass ...

322 Lindenbower, Wheeler,

mouth of Columbia River, Oreg.

324 pension increased .

1873

Hedge Fence Shoal , Mass . fourth district relief vessel.

995 Lindsey, 'David, 995 pension increased .

2024

Pacific coast, relief vessel .

996 Lindsey, Thomas J.,

Swiftsure Bank, Wash. 996 pension increased . 1769

discontinued , White Shoal , Mich..

995eLninsdsieoy,nWincy A. (widow), ...

relief vessel for ninth and eleventh dis-

2010

tricts to be equipped with power

Lindt, John,

motor..

996 pension increased .

2118

Swiftsure Bank, Juan de Fuca Strait, ap-

Linehan, Michael,

propriation repealed ...... 842 pension increased . 1484

Lineport, Tenn.,

Lightbourn, D. C.; .

bridge authorized across Cumberland River

appropriation for, from funds of Chippewas

of the Mississippi ....

351

between Tennessee Rolling Works

and ...

.! . 58, 1254

INDEX.

3463

Lines, John, pension increased ..
Lingenfelder, John, pension increased ..
Linn, Hiram, pension increased .
Linnahan, James W., pension increased ..

Page. 1779 2247
1870 1850

Linsday, John C. ,

pension increased .

2022

Lipes, Catharine (widow),

pension increased........

2817

Liquor Traffic,

appropriation for suppressing, among In-

dians.....

328, 1017

powers of search, etc. , given special agents

of Indian Bureau .

1017

Liquors (see also Drink),

appropriation for expenses, preventing sale

of adulterated, etc ..

1272

Liquors, Intoxicating,

prohibitions, Indian lands in Oklahoma

269

constitutional restrictions of sale, etc., in

Oklahoma ..

269

giving, etc., to Indians to be prohibited in

Arizona constitution .....

279

Lisbon, Portugal, classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

Lisk, Cassius,

pension increased ....

1447

Litchfield, Ill.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

782

appropriation for..

794

Little Belt Forest Reserve, Mont.,

proclamation enlarging Little Belt Moun-

tains Forest Reserve, and changing

name to..

3180

further enlarging..

3254

excluding lands from ..

3277

Little Belt Mountains Forest Reserve, Mont. ,

proclamation enlarging, and changing name

to Little Belt..

3180

Little Falls, N. Y. ,

appropriation for public building....

1300

Little, Jacob,

pension increased .

2608

Little, Jennie (widow),

pension increased..

1683

Little, Joseph W., pension increased ..
Little Kanawha River, W. Va.,

2700

appropriation for improvement of ; survey

for lock and dam..

1083

Littlefield, Nancy (widow),

pension increased ....

2666

Little Pedee River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1084

Little Pigeon River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1094

Little River, Ala.,

diversion of, in Mays Gulf, authorized .... 818

Little River, Ark.,

bridge authorized across , in Poinsett

County ...

112

Little River, Del.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1112

Little River, N. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1116

Little Rock, Ark. ,

construction of public building authorized

at...

776

appropriation for.. Little Rockies Forest Reserve, Mont.,

791, 1300

proclamation establishing...

3290

Little Sodus Bay, N. Y. ,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1078

Littlefalls, N. Y.,

limit of cost increased, public building ... 772

Littleton, Sarah J. (widow),

pension increased..

2334

Litzinger, Dennis A. ,

pension increased ..

2236

Live Stock (see Cattle).

Liverpool, England,
classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire..

99 293, 924

Livingston, Arantha J. (widow), pension increased ..
Livingston, Jacob, and Company, refund of taxes, etc... deficiency appropriation for.
Livingstone, Colin H., deficiency appropriation for extra services .
"Lizzie," Barge.
appropriation for paying owner.... Lloyd Harbor,
light vessel established at entrance to ..... deficiency appropriation for...
old light discontinued .. Loansfrom National Bank,
to individuals limited to one-tenth of capital and one-tenth of surplus; maximum...
Lockard, Mary (daughter), pension....
Locker, Edmund A. , pension increased .

2176 2309 1374
43 1293 995 1393 995
451 1960 2639

Lockhart, John H., pension increased ..
Locks and Dams, completion and use of Lock No. 4, Coosa River, Ala. , authorized ; conditions .
exchange of lands with Minneapolis, Minn. , for No. 1 , Mississippi River .
Lockwood, EdwardD. , alias George E. McDaniel, pension....
Lockwood, Hiram H. , pension increased..

1881
211 188 2070 2688

Lofton, Sophronia (widow), pension increased..
Logan, Andrew M., pension increased ...
Logan Forest Reserve, Utah, proclamation merging, into Bear River...
Logan, Henry, pension increased ...
Logan, John, pension increased .
Logan, John M., pension increased ..

1763 2191 3206 1550 2064 2085

Logan, Odilia (widow),

pension increased .

1525

Logan, Ransom L.,

pension increased ..

1466

Logan, Utah,

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1300

Lohman, John H.,

appropriation for bounty, destroying en-

emy's vessels .....

1293

Lokerson, Hugh,

pension increased ...

1433

Lolo Forest Reserve, Mont. , proclamation establishing enlarging
Lomax, Angeline R (widow), pension increased-

3234 3260
2102

3464

INDEX .

Lombard, Norman W. , pension increased .

Page. 1661

London, England, classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerks at embassy ..... 289, 919

for dispatch agent.....

289,919

for clerk hire, consulate-general ...... 293, 923

London, Ky.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..........

779

appropriation for..

792, 1306

Lonergan, Thomas,

pension increased .

2294

Loney, Philip, payment to..
Long, Abraham G. , pension increased .
Long, George F., pension increased ..
Long, Hiram, pension increased
Long, Isaac N., pension increased
Long, Jacob J., pension increased .
Long, James M., pension increased ..
Long, John, pension increased ..

2410 1911 1963 1734 2002 1617 1444 1914

Long, Marion H. (widow),

pension... Long Pine Forest Reserve , Mont.,

proclamation establishing. Long, Samuel C.,
pension increased .

Long, Susan M. (widow), pension increased .

Long, William C., pension increased .
Long, William H.; pension increased

Longendycke, Lucas, pension increased .

·Longfellow; Charles F. , pension increased .
Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth, selection of site in Washington, D. C. , for statue of.....

appropriation for preparation, etc.. Longhat, James, Wichita Allottee,
patent issued to , canceled .

Longsdorf, David E., pension increased

Longstaff, Hugh, pension increased .

Longsworth, Jacob M., pension increased

Loomis, Anna M. (widow) ,

pension increased

....

Loomis, James W., pension increased .

Loomis, Mary (widow), pension increased ...

1534 3235 1533 2249 2217 2726 2319 1554
830 830 364 1534 1611 1609 2421 2170 2559

Loosley, Daniel,

pension increased

2426

Lorain, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of har-

bor....

736, 1094

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made..

1116

Lorance, William H.,

pension increased .

1605

Loranger, Amos J.,

pension increased .

2562

Lorch, Maria (widow),

Page.

pension increased

2752

Lord, Charles P.,

pension increased .

2048

Lord, Napoleon D. O.,

pension increased

1528

Lord, Thomas M.,

pension increased

2630

Los Angeles, Cal., appropriation for public buildings . rent ..

1300 698, 1300

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing, rent.

31

granted right of way for water supply and

power plants, through public lands,

etc ...

801

purchase of land..

801

limit of cost increased, public building, on

site donated ..

785

sale of old building; proceeds for new one. 785

description of site corrected .............

1238

Los Angeles Inter- Urban Railway Company,

granted right of way across San Pedro Mili-

tary Reservation, Cal...

915

Loss by Exchange,

appropriation for, by Army disbursing

agents abroad ...

.: 247, 1164

for consular service..

295, 926

for diplomatic service Lost Checks,

289, 919

issue of duplicates for disbursing officer's,

limit removed ...

301

Lost, etc. , Checks and Warrants,

issue of duplicates for; limitation removed . 84

Losure, Mariot,

pension increased .

1941

Louisiana,

appropriation for surveyor-general, clerks,

etc ....

435, 980

for survey of certain lands in..

726

bridge authorized across Bayou Bartholo-

mew in......

1003

survey of unsurveyed public lands, di-

rected ..

199

title to certain lands within claim of Isaac

Crow, assignee of Vincent Michele, confirmed .
Louisiana Distilling Company, 1 relief of..
Louisiana, Mo.,

896 2822

deficiency appropriation for public build-

·

ing, advertising...

bridge authorized across Mississippi River

at...

Louisiana Molasses Company (Limited),

relief of..

Louisville, Ky.,

1375 933
2822

appropriation for improvement of Ohio

River at .

1096

Lounsberry, Joshua M. ,

pension increased .

1931

Lounsberry, William, pension increased

1546

Lounsbury, Margaret E. (widow) , pension increased ..

2288

Lourane, Lucy A. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

365

Lourenço Marquez, Africa, classification and salary of consul.....
Louther, William, pension increased.

99 1908

Love, Henry B., pension increased

2742

Love, John M.,

pension increased

1813

INDEX .

3465

Lovell, John L., pension increased
Lovell, Sarah (widow),
pension... Lovens, John A. ,
pension increased

Page. 1563
1925
2190

Lowory, Daniel V.,

pension increased .

1593

Lowe, Esther M. (widow),

pension increased .

1898

Lowe, Martha, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed from home-

stead ..

346

Lowell, John W.,

pension increased

2751

Lowell, Joseph W.,

pension increased .

2278

Lowen, R. ,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment..

1388

Lower Brulé Agency, S. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian agent at.

369, 1046

Lower Brule Indian Reservation, S. Dak.,

disposal of portion of...

124

opening to settlement; entries, etc ..

124

". disposal of proceeds ..

125

appropriation for expenses ; reimbursable . 125

regulations, etc .; sale of undisposed of

lands ...

126

Lower Thoroughfare, Md.,

preliminary examination to be made of

channel at Deals Island ......

1113

Lowry, Alexander M.,

pension increased .

1865

Lowry, Eada (widow) ,

pension increased .

1751

Lowry, Lewis,

pension increased .

1743

Lowry, Libbie D. (widow),

pension increased .

2531

Lowry, Samuel R. ,

pension increased .

1894

Lowry, Thomas,

pension increased .

1669

Loy, Samuel,

pension increased .

2806

Loyal Legion, Military Order of,

punishment for unauthorized wearing in-

signia of, in District...... Loyd, William H. ,
pension increased ..

62 2491

Lucas, Alfred E.,

pension increased

2512

Lucas, Amanda,

pension increased .

1940

Lucas, George W.,

pension increased

1829

Lucas, Robert B. ,

pension increased .

2733

Lucas, William,

pension increased

1813

Lucerne, Switzerland, classification and salary of consul. appropriation for clerk hire..
Lucero, Jose N., alias Nasario Lucero, pension...

99 294, 924
2005

Luckenbach, Jennie E. (widow),

pension..

2487

"Lucy, Lighter,

appropriation for repairs by owner:

1293

Ludington, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts .

1097

Ludlow, Volney P.,

pension increased .

1815

Ludwig, Catharine ( widow), pension increased

Page. 2499

Lufft, Henry,

pension increased

2637

Lufkin, Edwin B.,

!

pension increased

2666

Lukenbach, Luke,

appropriation for cost of repairs to barge .... 1292

Lull, Phineas F.,

pension increased

1548

Luman, Thomas M., pension increased

... 2618

Lunacy Writs, D. C., appropriation for expenses .

507, 1147

deficiency appropriation for expenses .. 643, 1379

Lunger, Charles H. ,

pension..

2193

Lungren, Sarah E. (widow),

pension...

2722

Lunn, Edward H.,

pension increased

2536

Lunn, Henry,

pension....

2721

Lunsford, Jeremiah,

pension increased

1938

Lunsford, Levi N.,

pension .

1803

Lusch, William I.,

pension....

1876

Lusk, Ebenezer,

pension increased .

1928

Lusk, Mary W. (widow),

pension increased ..

2797

Luther, Martin Alphons,

pension...

2302

Lutheran Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded .

869

Luxemburg ,

trade-marks decluration with .

2868

Luxemburg, Netherlands and, appropriation for minister to .
for secretary of legation...

286, 916 287, 917

Lydy, Horace E.,

pension increased

1619

Lyle, John A. ,

pension increased

2096

Lynch, Francis M.,

pension increased

1832

Lynch, Jacob H.,

pension increased

2065

Lynch, John,

pension increased

2482

Lynch, John C.,

Indian depredation claim of, referred to

Court of Claims ..

2411

Lynchburg, Va. ,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

775

appropriation for.

790, 1300

fire limit modified .

1300

terms of court at..

547

Lynchs River, S. C., appropriation for improvement of........ 1084

Lyndon, Ill.,

construction of dams, etc. , authorized

across Rock River at

933

Lynn, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 738

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made ...

1113

Lynn, Payton S.,

pension increased ..

1444

Lynn, Walter, '

pension increased

1836

3466

INDEX.

Lyon, Albert E., pension increased
Lyon, Charles M., pension increased .
Lyon, William A. , pension increased .
Lyons, Benjamin, pension increased
Lyons, Charles W., pension increased ...
Lyons, France, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire .
Lyons, Timothy, granted honorable discharge.....
Lytle, Ann (widow), pension..

Page. 1545 2228 2604 2628 1866
99 293, 924
2466 2340

M.

M Street NE., D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for extending.... McAdoo, Margaret A. (widow),
pension increased ..
McAlester, Ind. T., additional bond issue for schoolhouses au-

1377 2539

thorized ...

1027

consolidation of South McAlester with,

ratified ...

91

McAlister, Alexander,

pension..

2207

McAllister, William B. ,

pension increased .

2047

McAnally, Robert,

pension increased .

1675

McAtee, William J.,

pension increased

2300

McAteer, Simon,

pension increased

2531

McBeth, William,

.pension increased

1782

McBride, John F.,

pension increased

2325

McBride, Joseph,

pension increased

2241

McBride, Thomas, pension increased .
McBride, Victoria, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
McCabe, Enoch, pension increased .
McCabe, Thomas, pension increased ..

2386 374 2157 1519

McCafferty, M. A.,

payment to..

1772

McCaffrey, William,

deficiency appropriation for extra services . 1396

McCain, John H. , alias John Croft,

pension increased...

2575

McCalla, Rear- Admiral B. H.,

may accept medal from King of Great

Britain and decoration from Em-

peror of Germany ...

2825

McCallin, Harvey,

pension increased ..

. 2578

McCalvy, Robert,

pension increased .

1843

McCandless,. John,

pension increased..

1972

McCann, Ruth J. (widow),

pension increased ..

1765

McCann. William,

pension increased..

1854

McCardel, Eliza J. (widow ) ,

pension increased .

2400

McCarter, Daniel N.,

Page.

pension increased ..

2418

McCarthy, Patrick,

pension increased .:

2090

McCarthy, Richard,

pension increased..

1530

McCarty, Hannah (widow) ,

pension..

1958

McCarty, William F. M.,

deficiency appropriation for expert serv-

ices ..

669

McCaslin, John,

pension increased .

2542

McCaughen, John,

pension increased .

1825

McCauley, John, alias John H. Hayes,

military record corrected ...

2154

McCauley, Mary F. (widow),

pension increased .

1975

McCay, William M. ,

pension increased .

1629

McClary, John S. ,

pension increased .

2170

McClaskey, Edward J.,

pension increased..

1581

McClellan, General George B.,

appropriation for expenses unveiling statue

of.

736

McClellan, Theodore,

pension increased ..

1827

McClelland, David,

payment to...

2813

McClellanville, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of water-

way between Charleston and ..

1084

McClendon, Francis M.,

pension...

1985

McClory, Andrew,

pension increased .

1500

McClung, George H.,

pension increased ..

2687

McClung, Lafayette H.,

pension increased ..

2203

McClure, Cinderella B. (widow),

pension increased..

2801

McComb, Sallie B.,

payment to...

2224

McConnell, Abiram P. ,

pension increased...

2373

McConnell, Alexander F. ,

pension increased .

1508

McConnell, Daniel,

pension increased .

2700

McConnell, John, pension increased .. 2016

McConnell, Mary J. (widow), pension increased . 1693

McCook, Nebr.,

terms of court at

998

McCorkle, James M.,

pension increased ..

1842

McCorkle, Lucinda L. (widow),

pension..

2702

McCorkle , Mildred (widow), pension increased . 2149

McCormick, Charlotte A. (widow),

0

pension...

189

McCormick, George W., pension increased . 1440

McCormick, Peter, pension increased . 2540

McCormick, Robert M. (son),

1451

pension...

McCormick, Samuel C.,

2370

pension increased ...

INDEX.

3467

McCormick, Thomas, pension increased...
McCoy, B. T., and others, Trustees of Church, D. C.,
refund of taxes to .

Page. 1947
870

McCoy, Isaac, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

365

McCoy, John, Indiana Volunteers,

pension increased ...

1791

McCoy, John, U. S. Artillery,

pension increased ..

1659

McCoy, John R.,

pension increased ..

2448

McCoy, Mary, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

365

McCoy, Zerelda N. (widow),

pension increased .

1833

McCracken, James, pension increased ...

McCracken, Lytle, pension increased..

McCracken, Melissa (widow), pension increased .

McCraney, William, pension..

McCraw, William, pension increased..

McCray, Benjamin W. , pension..

McCrea, William, pension increased ..

McCready, Dennis Buckley, Buckley,
pension increased . McCredie, David,
pension increased.

alias

McCrillis, John R., pension increased .

McCue, Patrick, pension increased .

McCulley, Isaac A. , pension increased .

McCullock, Zeurial, pension increased ..

McCullough, Margaret (widow), pension increased ..

McCumber, Robert B., pension increased.

McCune, William H., pension increased .

McCurdy, Samuel D. , pension increased .
McDaniel, Augustus, pension increased ..

McDaniel, Isaiah, pension increased .

McDaniel Shoals, Savannah River, dam authorized at..

Thomas

2026 2158 2464 2809 1442 2566 2239
1491 2147 1852 1447 2176 2582 2315 2454 2063 2494 1991 1853 1238

McDermot, E. H., deficiency appropriation for extra services. 43

McDermott, Patrick,

pension increased .

1797

McDermott, Thomas , New York Volunteers,

pension increased.

2808

McDermott, Thomas, U. S. Navy,

pension increased ..

2376

McDevitt, Henry, pension increased .

2635

McDonald, Assistant Naval Constructor, Jo-

seph E.,

gift of sailboat for midshipmen, by family .

of, accepted

916

McDonald, David F.,

pension increased .

1573

McDonald, Eugene B. , pension increased ..
McDonald, Harmon W. , pension increased .
McDonald, Isaiah B., pension increased..
McDonald, John, pension increased ..
McDonald, Thomas, pension increased .
McDonald, William A. , pension increased ..
McDonough, John , Rhode Island Volunteers, pension increased .
McDonough, John, U. S. Navy, pension increased .
McDowell, Alexander,
deficiency appropriation for expenses, contested-election cases, House of Representatives ..
McDowell, Augustus, pension increased .
McDowell, Henry T.,
pension... McDowell, Napoleon,
pension increased ... McDowell, Thomas,
pension increased .
McDuffee, Dana H., pension increased.
McFadden, John D. , pension increased.
McFalls, Franklin, pension increased ..
McFarland, Harry D. (son);
pension....
McFarland, Milton, pension increased .
Macfarlane, John G. C., pension increased...
McFarlane, Mary (widow), pension increased ..
McGarraugh, John T., pension increased ..
McGarvey, Joseph G., pension increased ..
McGaughey, Jacob, pension increased..
McGee, James M., payment to ..
McGehee, Mary J. (widow), pension increased...
McGiffin, Margaret (widow), pension increased..
McGinis, John C., pension increased .
McGinty, John A. , pension increased ..
McGirl, Barney, pension increased ..
MacGowan, Sarah E. (widow),` pension increased..
McGowan, Thomas, pension increased ..
McGowan, William, pension increased..
McGregor, George S. , pension increased .
McGulpin Point, Mich., light station discontinued ..
McHarg, John W. , deficiency appropriation for credit in ccounts ..

Page. 1893 2353 1890 1979 1853 1608 2217 1984
662 2124 1597 1783 2497 2436 1446 2317 1909 2204 1682 2095 1664 1457
1 1679 2312 1511 2046 2597 2281 1664 1536 2140 1699 1433 996
1381

3468

INDEX .

McHarg, Ormsby,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for extra services .

661 , 1395

McHugh, Lawrence,

pension increased .

2495

McIntosh, Curtis B. ,

pension increased.

1538

McJunkin, Hugh K. ,

pension increased ..

2694

McKay, Elizabeth A. (widow),

pension increased..

2110

McKay Steamship Line,

appropriation for refund to...

722

McKean, Eliza A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2373

McKee, James,

pension increased .

1752

McKee, James M.,

payment to administratrix of..

2311

deficiency appropriation for...

1374

McKeesport, Pa.,

appropriation for public building.....

698

McKeever, John,

pension increased..

1680

McKeever, William P. ,

pension increased .

2674

McKelvy, James,

pension increased .

2014

McKeney, Stewart, pension increased .
McKenna, James, pension increased .
McKenney, Charles H., pension increased ..
McKenzie, Jeremiah,
pension... McKenzie, John H. ,
pension... McKenzie, William,
pension increased .

2177 1985 1976 1933 1663 1737

McKibban, Isaac G. ,

pension increased .

2759

McKibben, Dudley,

pension increased .

2087

McKiernan, Robert E.,

pension increased ..

1899

McKim, Mary J. (widow),

pension increased ..

1874

McKinley, Russell A.,

pension....

1455

McKinney, Samuel,

pension increased.

1480

McKinnon, John , alias John Mack,

naval record corrected ..

2657

return from President requested of bill to

correct military record ..

2838

correction in enrollment of bill relating

to, directed ..

2839

McKnight, Eugene V. ,

pension increased .

2128

McpKennisgihont,iJncorhena,sed .

2683

McKnight, Virginia A. (widow),

pension..

2112

McLain, George H. ,

pension increased .

2425

McLean, Mary Louise (widow), pension...
McLean, Samuel B. , pension increased.
McLean, W. A. , payment of judgment to .......
McLeod, Mary J. (widow), pension...
McLoney, Luke, pension increased .
McMahon, Francis, pension increased .
Mc Mahon, Jane (widow), pension increased....
McMahon, Mary (widow), pension increased ..
McMahon, Patrick, pension increased..
McManis, James, pension increased .
Mc Manus, Amos, pension increased .

Page. 2430 2237 2308 1933 1798 2391 1499 1757 2582 2001
1665

McMichael, W. P.,

pension increased..

2254

McMillan, Fergus P.,

pension increased ..

2480

McMillen, Robert,

pension increased..

2762

McMillen, Vollie A. (widow),

pension...

1595

McMullen, Robert,

pension increased ..

1465

McNabb, John O. ,

pension increased .

2553

McNabb, Lener (widow),

pension..

1670

McNabb, William,

pension increased .

1548

McNair, William,

pension increased ..

1438

McNally, Margaret (widow),

pension...

2581

McNamee, Catharine (widow),

pension increased..

2614

McNary, Josephine D. (widow),

pension increased .

1983

McNaughton, Hugh,

pension increased.

2696

McNeil, Gertrude (widow),

pension increased..

2263

McNeil Island, Wash.,

appropriation for penitentiary, construc-

tion ..

751, 1357

McNulta, Laura (widow),

pension...

1888

McNulty, Joseph,

pension increased .

2459

McPeek, Thomas,

pension increased ..

2610

McPherran, Alfred,

pension increased .

1634

McQuade, James,

pension increased..

2236

McReynolds, James T

pension increased ...

2436

McLain, Oliver N., pension increased .

McReynolds, N. Delmont,

2288 | pension increased...

2606

McLauchlan, Lizzie M. (widow),

McRoy, William C.,

pension increased ..

1637 pension increased .

2107

McLaughlin, Thomas,

McSwain, Joseph,

pension increased ..

1450 pension increased .

1560

McLaughlin, Thomas G.,

Mc Twiggan, James,

pension increased..

1776 pension increased .

2131

INDEX .

3469

McWhinnie, A. Louisa S. (widow), pension...
MeWhorter, Alexander, pension increased..
MeWhorter, James B., pension increased .

Page. 1722
2778
1970

McWhorter, John, pension increased .
McWilliams, Jacob, pension increased .
MeWilliams, John W. , return from President requested of bill to
pension Mabee, John R.,
pension increased .
Mabery, William, pension...
Mabry, Adline (widow), pension increased .
Macello, Antonio, pension increased .
Machen, William A. , deficiency appropriation for coal ..
Machine Guns, Army,

1626 2376
2839 1802 2169 2446 2251 657

appropriation for purchase, tests, etc ... 463, 1059

Mackey, Edward, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

357

Mackey, Thomas J.,

pension increased..

2053

Macomb Street NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for opening. 853

appropriation for....

853

Macon, Francis A. ,

deficiency appropriation for credit in ac-

counts ..

637

Macon, Ga.,

appropriation for public building... rent..

698, 1300 698, 1300

deficiency appropriation for furniture, pub-

lic building...

1374

Macon, Mo.,

acquiring site for public building at, authorized ...
appropriation for. Macy, Ann E. (widow),
pension increased....
Macy, John P., pension increased .
Madden, Patrick J., payment to.
Madden, William,

783 795 2739 2529 2659

deficiency appropriation for........... 663, 1398

Maddocks, Joseph G.,

pension increased ..

2600

Maddox, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased..

2303

Maddox, George H. ,

pension increased .

2783

Maddox, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2385

Madison, Ark. ,

bridge authorized across Saint Francis

River ..

90

18

Madison Barracks, N. Y. ,

appropriation for post cemetery .

742

Madison Bridge Company,

may bridge Saint Francis River, Madison,

Ark.

90

Madison Forest Reserve, Mont.,
proclamation modifying area adding lands to.
Madison, John W. , pension increased..
Madrid, Spain, classification and salary of consul..

2995 3148 1973
ICO

90

Magdalena Forest Reserve, N. Mex.,
proclamation establishing.. Magdeburg, Germany,
classification and salary of consul....... Magee, David F.,
pension increased .

Page. 3245
100
1490

Magee, David W.,

pension increased ..

1648

Maginley, Thomas,

pension increased ..

1517

Maginnis, John,

pension increased .

2781

Maglathlin, Webb C.,

may be appointed second assistant engineer, Revenue-Cutter Service..... 2817
Mahaffey, Birchie O.,

may be appointed second lieutenant,

Army, notwithstanding age .

1225

Mahaffey, Joseph C.,

pension increased ..

2333

Mahaffey, William C.,

pension increased .

2106

Mahaney, Henry W.,

pension increased.

2434

Mahany, Susan (widow),

pension increased .

2684

Maher, Maria A. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2196

Mahoney, Michael,

pension increased .

2292

Mahoney, Patrick,

pension increased .

1864

Maier, Michael,

pension increased .

2548

Mail Bag and Lock Repair Shop, D. C.,

appropriation for.

472

deficiency appropriation for removing and

installing.

42

use of rent fund for maintenance..

657

Mail Bags, etc., Postal Service, appropriation for.....

472, 1211

Mail Depredations,

appropriation for Chief Inspector, etc. ,

Post-Office Department..

437, 982

for post-office inspectors, etc

467, 1205

Mail Locks, etc., Postal Service, appropriation for....

472, 1211

Mail Transportation, appropriation for star routes.... discontinuance when duplicated rural delivery.. Alaska service .
for steamboat, etc., routes . for messenger service..

472, 1211
by .472, 1211 472, 1211 472, 1211 472, 1211

for pneumatic-tube, etc. , service ; con-

tracts ...

472, 1211

extension limited

472, 1211

for wagon service..

472, 1211

for railroad routes .

472, 1212

reduction of rates

1212

fines for nondelivery on time . for railway post-office car service .. for electric and cable car service
compensation; contracts.. Chicago underground service . for special facilities . for foreign mails..

472, 1212 473, 1212 474, 1213 474, 1213 475, 1214
475 475, 1214

deficiency appropriation for steamboat,

etc., routes

658, 1392

for railroad routes .

658, 668, 1392

for wagon service .

658

for startes..

658, 668. 1391 , 1404 , 1406

Mailey, Edward, pension increased .

2799

3470

INDEX.

Mails (see also Postal Service),
penalty privilege, limited to regular mail matter...
postal cards, supplies, etc., withdrawn from, to be sent by freight..
record to be kept of, carried from July 1 to December 31, 1907 ..

Page. 477 473 1216

classification; statistics to be prepared .. 1216

report to Congress, May 1, 1908 ..

1216

Maine,

appropriation for revenue-cutter for coast

of....

1309

Maines, Isaac, pension increased .

2180

Mainz, Germany,
classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire .. Maison, John B., pension increased ..

100 294, 924
2382

Majestic Collieries Company,

may bridge Tug Fork of Big Sandy River

at Devon, W. Va...........

883

Makah Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 377, 1050

Makapuu Point, Oahu , Hawaii,

appropriation for light station ..

711

Malaga, Spain,

classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire .

100 294, 924

Malden River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of.......... 1075

Mallalieu, William H. H. ,

pension increased ..

2171

Mallorie, William U.,

pension increased .

1578

Malloy, William M.,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1395

Malone, Adaline H. (widow),

pension increased ..

2507

Malone, Emeline (widow),

pension..

1671

Malone, Fannie E. (widow),

pension increased .

1848

Malone, John A. ,

pension increased ...

1739

Malone, N. Y. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

783

appropriation for.

795

Malone, Robert B. ,

pension increased .

1748

Malone, Sarah V. (widow),

pension increased ..

2205

Maloon, Frances E. (widow),

pension..

1867

Malta, Malta,

classification and salary of consul......... 100

Maltby Building, D. C.,

appropriation for miscellaneous items ... 392 , 938

for repairs .

392, 938

Mammoth Springs, Ark.,

estimates to be submitted for completing

fish hatchery at...

1327

Managua, Nicaragua, classification and salary of consul......... 100

Manahan, Bridget (mother),

pension...

2113

Manahan, Michael,

pension increased ...

1901

Manahan, Thomas,

pension increased ..

1463

Manatee River, Fla. , appropriation for improvement of ......... 1087

Manchester, England, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire .

Page. 99
293, 924

Manchester, Iowa,

appropriation for fish hatchery ..

721

Manchester, Va. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

781

appropriation for......

794, 1300

Mancos, Colo.,

may enter certain public lands; price, etc. 459 Mandamus,

issue of writs, to compel compliance of carrier with interstate commerce regu-

lations...

594

Manhattan, Kans.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for..

792, 1300

Manice, Albert,

pension increased ..

2641

Manifests of Alien Passengers,

required from masters of vessels arriving ;

contents..

901

vessels leaving; disposition of..

902

from insular possessions..

902

penalty for failure to deliver..

902

Manifests, Ships' , deficiency appropriation for refunding il-

legally assessed stamps on export ... 1373

Manila, Philippine Islands,

appropriation for ordnance depot ....... 732, 1340 Manistee, Mich. ,
appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1097

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for..

793, 1300

Manistique, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1096

Manitowoc, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts.....

1100

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for.

794, 1300

Mankin, William C., pension increased.

2212

Manley, Horace A. ,

pension increased.

1974

Manley, John,

pension increased.

2652

Manly, Samuel,

pension increased.

2754

Mann, Alonzo P.,

pension increased.

2725

Mann, Ervin F.,

pension increased .

2744

Mann, Horace D. ,

pension..

1725

Mannes, Mathias,

pension increased ..

2624

Manney, Isabel (widow), pension increased ..
Mannheim, Germany,
classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire.... Manning, Denis A. , pension increased .

... 2755
99 294, 924
2273

Manning, Mary M. C. (widow),

pension increased ..

1524

Manning, Thomas B. ,

pension increased ..

2473

Manokin River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of........... 1081

INDEX.

3471

Mansfield, S. Amanda (widow), pension increased.......

Page. 1789

Manson, Augusta N. (widow), pension increased .

.... 1807

Manson, Sarah J. (widow), pension....
Manti Forest Reserve, Utah, proclamation adding lands to.

1894 3188

Mantua Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

1080

Manufactures, Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for chief of, clerks, etc .... 442, 987

for collating foreign tariffs.

.988

deficiency appropriation for assistant chief. 42

Many, Artemas D.,

pension increased .

1978

Manzanillo, Mexico, classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Manzano Forest Reserve, N. Mex. ,

proclamation establishing...

3257

Maple, Benjamin,

pension increased..

2652

Maps ofthe United States, appropriation for, connected, etc. for separate State and Territorial . for post-route.. for geological .

430, 975 430,975 440, 985 727, 1336

Maps, War Department, appropriation for publication cf.
Maracaibo, Venezuela, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire.....

744, 1350
100 294, 924

Marah, John,

pension increased..

1951

Marble, Anna E. (daughter),

pension.

2565

Marble, Ephraim,

pension increased .

1882

Marblehead, Mass .,

sale of part of public building site, author-

ized ...

786

Marcum, James H. , pension increased .

2595

Mare Island Navy- Yard, Cal.,

appropriation for laborers and ' mechanics,

Steam Engineering, San Francisco

earthquake...
for public works, navy-yard . naval magazine

168 565, 1187 568, 1190

naval hospital..

569

Marean, John W.,

pension increased .

2379

Margrave, Earl I. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.:

349

Margrave, James T. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

349

Margrave, Margaret, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

349

Margrave, William A. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

349

Margrave, William C. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

349

" Marie," Steamer,

granted American register.....

881

Mariechen," Bark,

granted American register ; restriction ..... 1251

Marietta, Ga.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for.

792, 1300

Marietta, Ohio,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for...

793, 1301

Marine Corps,

Page.

appropriation for pay of officers, active

list ....

579, 1200

retired list.

579, 1200

for pay of enlisted men retired ...

579, 1200. 579, 1200

for undrawn clothing

579, 1201

for interest on deposits; savings may be

deposited by enlisted men.

579

for mileage, officers ..

579, 1201

for commutation of quarters .

579, 1201

for pay of civil force.. for interest on deposits

579, 1201 1201

for provisions

580, 1201

for clothing.

580, 1202

for fuel...

580, 1202

for military stores...
for transportation and recruiting. for repairs, etc. , barracks; rent.. for forage

580, 1202 581, 1202 581, 1202 581, 1202

for hire of quarters; commutation, en-

listed men..

581, 1202

for contingent ..

581, 1203

for barracks and quarters

569, 1191

for reimbursing losses, San Francisco fire . 554

deficiency appropriation for distributing

medals, service in West Indies, war

with Spain.....

35

for transportation and recruiting.. 36,649, 1387.

for clothing.

36, 666, 1387

for barracks, Philippines..

36

for pay... 46, 647, 649, 666, 668, 1384, 1402, 1405

for provisions.

46,647, 1385, 1387

for fuel..

647, 649, 1385

for contingent ..

647, 649, 1385, 1387

for pay of officers..

649

retired ...

649

for pay of enlisted men.

649

for undrawn clothing.

649

for stores, etc., destroyed, San Francisco

earthquake.. for hire of quarters..

650 1385, 1387

for repairs of barracks...

1387

officers advanced in rank for heroism, etc.,

to be carried as additional numbers

in grade when promoted.....

296

officers below brigadier-general may be ad-

vanced one grade on retirement, for

civil-war service.....

554

retired enlisted men, allowances, and credit

for other service ..

1217

tuberculosis patients, may be treated at Fort Bayard , N. Mex . , hospital ... 1172

Marine-Hospital Service (see Public Health and Marine-Hospital Service).

Marine Hospitals, appropriation for Baltimore, Md . for Boston, Mass.. for Buffalo, N. Y. for Cleveland, Ohio. for Key West, Fla .. for New Orleans, La... for New York, improvements
for Pittsburg, Pa. , completing for leprosy hospital, Hawaii .. for maintenance of stations........

1306 1307 . 697 1307 701 , 1307 1307 701 699 1307 709, 1316

deficiency appropriation for Savannah, Ga. 639

building at Nome, Alaska, to be remodeled ,

etc., for jail..

751

Marinette, Wis. ,

construction of public building authorized

at ...

777

appropriation for .

792, 1301

3472

INDEX .

Marion, Ind.,

Page.

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ..

748, 1354

construction of public building authorized

at..

777

appropriation for..

791 , 1301

Marion, Ohio,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

780

appropriation for..

793, 1301

Mariposa Big Tree Grove, Cal. , recession from California accepted , and

added to Yosemite National Park... 831

Maritime Exposition, International, deficiency appropriation for participation . 1371
Markets, D. C.,

appropriation for market masters, etc... 484, 1121

for labor, etc..

484, 1121

trust fund Wholesale Producers' Mar-

ket transferred ...

484

receipts, farmers, etc. , to be paid to

credit of District; charges...

485

for Wholesale Producers' , Eastern and

Western ...

485, 1121

for addition to Eastern.

1126

deficiency appropriation for Wholesale Pro-

ducers ' .

1377

Marks, John, alias Edmund T. Connelly,

pension increased ..

1543

Marksmen, Army,

additional pay to....

241

Marland, Salome Jane (widow) ,

pension..

2749

Marlatt, Wellington,

pension increased .

1485

Marlboro, Mass.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

782

appropriation for .

795

Marquette, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1096

Marquis, Lewis,

pension increased.

2212

Marquis, Neeta H. (widow),

pension increased .

1738

Married Women,

citizenship of native and foreign, after termination of marital relation ...... 1228

Marsden, William H.,

pension increased .

1686

Marseille, France, classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.....

294, 924

Marsh, B. F. , late a Representative in Congress, deficiency appropriation for daughter of.... 43

Marsh, Benjamin F.,

pension increased .

1539

Marsh, Cynthia (widow),

pension increased .......

2623

Marsh, Lyman,

pension increased ...

1448

Marsh, Milton,

pension increased ..

1506

Marsh, Thomas D. ,

pension increased .

2729

Marshall, Benjamin , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed from home-

stead ..

346

Marshall, Horace P. ,

pension increased .

2436

Marshall, James

pension increased ....

2656

Marshall, Jennie H (widow),

pension increased .

2703

Marshall, John W.,

Page

pension increased .

2049

Marshall, Samantha B. (widow),

pension increased ..

2211

Marshall, William P. ,

pension increased .

1841

Marshals, Consular,

appropriation for, in China, Korea, and

Turkey.

294, 925

in China, abolished .

816

Marshals, United States Courts,

appropriationfor salaries, etc.; advances . 753, 1360 time for transmitting accounts ex-

tended ..

1306

deficiency appropriation for fees, etc.

48

for salaries, etc ..

667, 1390, 1403

appointment for United States court for

China; salary; tenure...

816

salaries, Idaho and California, southern

district ..

753

Marshes, D. C., restrictions on hunting game birds on ..... 809

Martin, Eva L. (widow),

pension.

1722

Martin, Elizabeth J. (widow),

pension increased .

1811

Martin, George G. ,

pension increased .

2795

Martin, George H.,

pension increased ..

2768

Martin, Helen P. (widow),

pension.

1700

Martin, Henry W.,

pension increased .

2642

Murtin, Hope (daughter),

pension..

2393

Martin, Ida L. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2080

Martin, James,

pension increased .

1741

Martin, Jehu,

pension increased.

2014

Martin, Job F.,

pension increased .

2374

Martin, John D. ,

pension increased.

2517

Martin, Joseph Henry,

pension increased .

1789

Martin, Joseph Jones,

pension increased .

1568

Martin, Medad C.,

credit in accounts ..

1560

Martin, Owen, pension increased ....

1928 .

Martin, Robert,

pension increased ..

2499

Martin, Thomas,

pension increased .

1820

Martin, Thomas J.,

pension increased .

1611

Martin, William ,

pension increased .

2029

Martin, William M. ,

pension increased .

1572

Martine, Charles,

pension increased ..

2231

Martinique, West Indies, classification and salary of consul ..
Martins Reef, Lake Michigan, appropriation for light vessel..
light vessel authorized at .
deficiency appropriation for . Martinsburg, W. Va.,.
terms of court at.

100
1318 323 659
891 .

INDEX.

3473

Marvin, Angie A. (widow), pension..
Marvin Methodist Episcopal Church, D. C'.. taxes refunded ..

Page. 1520
869

" Mary M. Brainard," Schooner,

appropriation for owners.

1293

Maryland,

appropriation for survey, etc. , of oyster

beds ....

714, 1322

release of title to lands in, devised by

John C. Rives ...

2139

survey, etc., of natural oyster beds in

waters of, authorized ..

202

Maryland School for Colored Deaf Mutes,

appropriation for maintenance of Dis-

trict pupils.... :

503, 1142

deficiency appropriation for maintenance,

etc., of District pupils ..

37

Maryman, S. A.,

deficiency appropriation for extra services . 1396

Masino, Nicola,

alien ownership restrictions on real estate

removed

299

Maskat, Maskat,

classification and salary of consul .....

100

Mason City, Iowa,

appropriation for public building.

1301

additional land .

1301

acceptance of additional land authorized

for public building..

1237

construction of public building authorized

at...

777

appropriation for.

791

Mason, Columbus B. ,

pension increased,

2434

Mason, Elizabeth A. (widow),

pension..

1694

Mapseonsni, oGnrainnvcirlelaesPe.d ,.

1537

Mason, Lorenzo D.,

pension increased .

1748

Mason, Mary B. (widow),

pension increased .

2377

Mason, Orange S.,

pension increased .

1637

Mason, Sallie W. (widow),

pension..

1799

Mason, Stevens T.,

gift of, condemned cannon to Michigan for

statue of late governor.

834

Masonic and Eastern Star Home, D. C.,

title of Eastern Star Home changed to... 92

board of directors increased ; quorum ..

92

Masonic Mutual Relief Association, D. C.,

charter amended ; amount of certificates

limited ..

214

Massachusetts Avenue, D. C.,

appropriation for condemning land to ex- :

tend ..

492

Massachusetts, " Battle Ship, appropriation for modernizing batteries... 558

Massey, Drucillar A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2015

Massey, Thomas G. ,

pension increased .

1687

Matagorda Bay, Tex.,

preliminary examination to be made of

channel from Palacios to .....

1117

Matamoras, Mexico, classification and salary of consul ...........................
Matawan Creek, N."J., appropriation for improvement .
Matchett, Alexander, pension increased ..

100 1079 2525

Matheney, Michael, pension increased .
Matheny, Ashford R., pension increased .
Matheny, Francis D. , pension increased .
Matheny, John C., pension increased .
Mather, John, pension increased .
Mather, John A. , pension increased .
Mathers, Waitman T., pension increased .
Mathes, Mary E. (widow), pension increased ..
Mathews, Abraham, pension increased .
Mathews, Charles A. , pension increased ..
" Mathilda R, " Barge, refund of fine on.
" Mathilda, " Steamship, appropriation for repairs .
Mathis, Mary T. (widow), pension increased ..
Matimore, Catherine (widow'). pension increased ..
Matinicus, Me., preliminary examination of, to be made. for harbor of refuge ..
Matlack, Martha G. (widow). pension increased .
Mattaponi River, Va. , appropriation for improvement of........
Matter, Henry, pension increased .
Mattern, Franklin G., pension increased.
Matthews, Joseph,
pension.. Matthews, Louisa R. (widow).
pension increased ... Matthews, Robert R.,
pension increased . Mattison, William,
pension increased . Mattituck, N. Y.,
appropriation for improvement of harbor.. Mattucks, Gatsey (widow),
pension increased ..
Maulsby, Thomas A. , pension increased .
Maumee River, Ohio,
preliminary examination of, to be made .. Maury Mountain Forest Reserve. Oreg..
proclamation establishing... joining to Blue Mountains Forest Reserve
Mavity, Wesley A. J., pension increased .
Maxham, Lowell M.. pension increased .
Maxwell, Edward, pension increased .
Maxwell, Henry C., pension increased .
Maxwell, William H. , pension increased .
May, Byron K., return from President requested of bill to pension.
May, David C.. pension increased..

Page. 1510 1864 2614 1868 1833 2048 2294 2317 1579 2775 2361 1292 2578 2445
1113 2602 1082 2692 1734 1980 2769 1794 2031 1077 1752 1855 1116 3066 3302 2170 2075 1535 1862 2810
2832 2602

3474

INDEX .

May, Enoch, pension increased..
May, M. Belle (widow), pension increased ...
May, Rosanna A. (widow), pension increased..
Maybury, George, pension increased .

Page. 2639 2102 2823 2439

Mayer, William,

pension...

1666

Mayes, Minerva A. (widow) ,

pension increased.

2514

Mayfield, Ky.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for..

792, 1301

Mayfield, Robert F.,

pension increased .

2375

Mayflower Compact, etc.,

appropriation for aid to monument at Prov-

incetown, Mass. , to commemorate.. 225

Mayhew, Charles H.,

pension increased.

1486

Maynard, George W. ,

pension increased ..

2612

Mays, Eliza J. (widow), pension increased..

2109

Mays Gulf, Ala., diversion of Little River at, for power

plant authorized ........

818

Mays, Jackson,

pension increased ..

2463

Mazakute, David, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Mazatlan, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul............

100

Meacham, Levi A.,.

granted corrected honorable discharge .... 2064

Meadows, Samuel,

pension increased..

1876

Meadows, Thomas C.,

pension increased..

1437

Meadows, William H.,

pension increased.

2134

Meadville, Pa.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for...

793, 1301

Meares, Catherine De Rosset (widow),.

pension increased ..

2730

Mears, Charles M.,

'pension increased.

1998

Measles, D. C.,

provisions to prevent spread of...

889

Meat and Meat Products Inspection,

regulations for, in interstate and foreign

commerce .

674, 1260

inspection of animals before slaughter-

ing...

674, 1260

separation of diseased..

674, 1260

post mortem examination of carcasses,

etc ....

674, 1260

marking, stamping, etc.

675, 1261

destruction of unsound meats .

675, 1261

post mortem reinspection

675, 1261

to be made before entering depart-

ment for preparing food products . 675, 1261

examination of meat food products .... 675, 1261

marking, etc., sound articles..

675, 1261

condemnation and destruction of un-

sound, etc ....

675, 1261

regulations as to preservatives appli-

cable to export trade......

675, 1261

Meat and Meat Products Inspection- Cont'd . Page.

canned meats, etc. , to have true name

of contents on receptacle ..

676, 1262

trade names allowed ...

676, 1262

sanitary condition of slaughtering, pack-

ing, etc., houses to be examined . 676, 1262

passing of products refused if condi-

tions unclean, etc ..

676,, 1262

examinations at night...

676, 1262

transportation of meats and products

not marked, forbidden...

676, 1262

articles on hand October 1 , 1906 .. 676, 1262

forging, destroying, etc., evidences of

inspection, forbidden ...

677, 1263

cattle, etc. , offered for export to be ex-

amined ...

677, 1263

certificate of inspection..

677, 1263

clearance forbidden unless certifi-

cate is produced ; exception............. 677 , 1263

carcasses and meats offered for export to

be examined .....

677, 1263

certificate of inspection..

677, 1263

clearance forbidden unless certifi-

cate is produced ; exception ..... 677, 1263

inspectors authorized to give official cer-

tificates of soundness of cattle,

carcasses, and products ....

677, 1263

trade, etc., in products of establish-

ments not complying with this

act, forbidden....

678, 1264

punishment for violations of any pro-

vision .....

678, 1264

inspectors to be appointed ; duties ... 678, 1264

punishment for bribing, etc. , inspec-

tion officers..

678, 1264

for accepting gifts, etc. , by inspection

officers ....

678, 1264

provisions not applicable to farmers, re-

tail butchers, etc...

679, 1265

punishment for sale, etc. , of unsound

meats or products ..

679, 1265

inspection of farms and retail establish-

ments authorized ...

679, 1265

permanent appropriation for all expenses ; reports, etc..
· detailed statement of number of inspectors, expenses, etc ...........

679 1265

Meat Inspection, appropriation for...
deficiency appropriation for..

673, 1259 42

Medal, etc.,

acceptance permitted Rear-Admiral B. H.

McCalla from King of Great Britain . 2825

Medal of Honor, Congressional, awarded to Roe Reisinge holders of, may retain old ones, etc ..
Medallions, to be made for Zebulon Montgomery Pike Monument Association...
Medals, additional , Benjamin Franklin memorial, authorized .. preparation at mints authorized of, for Jamestown Exposition ......

1420 1422
198
615 767

Medals, etc., Army,

appropriation for furnishing marksmen's,

etc...

257, 1174

for, at annual rifle contests .

258, 1175

deficiency appropriation for.

32

for distributing, to Navy and Marine

Corps for service in West Indies,

war with Spain .................

35

INDEX.

3475

Medals, etc. , Army- Continued.

Page.

to volunteers, war with Spain, who served

beyond enlistment to suppress Phil-

ippine insurrection...

621

appropriation for..

621

Medbury, Harry N.,

pension increased .

2734

Medical Charities, D. C. , appropriation for...

510, 1151

Medical Department, Army,

appropriation for Hospital Corps ; lon-

gevity... for pay of officers; longevity.
for hospital matrons. for superintendent nurse
nurses..

243, 1161 244, 1162 245, 1163 corps ; 245, 1163

for dental surgeons..

245, 1163

for contract surgeons.

245, 1163

for supplies......

255, 1172

for preventing, etc. , epidemic dis-

eases ...

...255, 1172

patients, Fort Bayard, N. Mex. , sub-

ject to Army regulations...

255

use offunds from sales of supplies, etc. 256

care of insane in Philippines ..

1173

for museum; library..

256, 1173

for artificial limbs . !.

744, 1350

for appliances for disabled soldiers ... 745, 1350

for relief of earthquake sufferers made

available for supplies.....

827

for further relief; extra expenses.

828

deficiency appropriation for...

46, 1401

for supplies, destroyed, San Francisco

earthquake ...

646

for artificial limbs..

666, 1401

Medical Examiners, D. C.,

times of meetings of board of, changed .... 1412 Medical Museum, Army,

appropriation for preserving, etc., speci-

mens....

256, 1173

Medicinal Preparations, Liquid,

penalty for using denatured alcohol for.... 217

Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, Colo. and Wyo. ,

proclamation enlarging_

3039, 3303

Medicines,

appropriation for expenses, preventing

sale of adulterated, etc...

1272

Medicines, D. C. (see Pharmacy Regulations, D. C.).

Medworth, Robert,

pension increased ..

2512

Mee, Alice Fairbanks,

appropriation for, administratrix of as-

signee of W. R. Spears .

351

Meece, Greenup,

pension increased .

2571

Meek, Elizabeth J. (widow),

pension increased ..

1992

Meeler, John J.,

pension..

1592

Megrue, Mary A. (widow) ,

pension increased..

1635

Meherrin River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1083

Meier, Jacob,

pension increased .

1473

Meister, Katie B. (widow),

pension increased...

1910

Mel, Henry de F.,

appropriation for..

1291

Melbourne, Australia,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire...

294, 924

Meldrim, Mary Jane (widow),

pension increased...

2389

Melick, William G., pension increased .

Page. 2059

Melson, John M.,

pension increased .

2254

Melton, Jesse J.,

pension increased .

2639

Melton, John S.,

pension increased .

1996

Melvin, Royal T.,

pension increased..

2731

Members ofthe House of Representatives, appropriation for compensation and mile-

age.. for clerk hire ..

392, 938 $96, 942

deficiency appropriation for compensa-

tion ...

661, 1396

compensation established .

994

Memorial Church of the United Brethren in

Christ, D. C. ,

taxes refunded ..

870

Memorial Day,

appropriation for flags to decorate graves

on ...

1165

Mena, Ark., sale of public lands to.....
Menard, Alfred B., pension increased .
Menefee, Thomas S., pension increased.
Menominee Indian Reservation, Wis., additional sales of timber on, permitted; proceeds ....
Menominee Indians, sale, etc., of dead, etc. , timber on lands of;
proceeds.. Menominee, Mich.,
appropriation for improvement of harbor..
for light-keeper's dwelling.. light-keeper's dwelling authorized . deficiency appropriation for.. preliminary examination of harbor to be
made..

518 1879 1762
547
547 1096 1318 323 .659 1114

Menominee River, Mich. and Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1096

Mercantile Bridge Company,

time extended for bridging Monongahela

River..

884

Mercer, Georgie A. (widow), pension....
Merchant Seamen (see also Shipping) ,
bond and oath of shipping commissioners modified ....
punishment for shanghaiing Meredith, James A. ,
pension increased .. Meredith, Nancy A. (widow ) ,
pension increased . Mericle, Laurence,
pension increased ..
Meriden, Conn., appropriation for public building... limit of cost increased , public building .

2487
137 551 2402 2802 1495 1301 773

Merideth, John J.,

pension increased ..

1811

Merideth, William,

pension....

1676

Meridian Place NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

irg.

846

appropriation for.

846

Mermentau, La.,

appropriation for improvement of inland

waterway from Franklin to ; con-

tracts ...

.1089

3476

INDEX .

Mermentau River, La.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of......... 1089

Meroney, John A.,

payment to..

2144

Merrill, George,

pension increased .

2160

Merrill, James D.,

pension increased ..

2266

Merrill, Libbie A. (widow),

pension..

2342

Merrill, Sarah J. (widow),

pension increased...

1762

Merrimac River, Mass.,

preliminary examination of, to be made

for locks and dams........

1114

Merriman, C. K.,

payment to..

2662

Merriman, Elijah R.,

pension increased .

2136

Merritt, Adelaide D. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2425

Mesa Verde National Park, Colo.,

appropriation for management, etc

1337

created; control, etc ..

616

custody of near by prehistoric ruins...

617

examinations for museums , etc. , per-

mitted ....

617

punishment for willfully destroying ruins,

etc ..

617

Messenger Service, Mail, appropriation for..

472, 1211

Messengers,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives...

394, 940

for Senate..

391, 936

Messengers to Committees,

appropriation for, House of Representa-

tives...

393, 939

Messerschmidt, John C.,

pension increased ..

1602

Messick, John W.,

pension increased .

2732

Messina, Italy; classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire.....

100 294, 924

Metcalf, Edward P.,

pension increased.

1544

Metcalfe, Allen D. ,

pension increased .

2092

Meteorological Stations, appropriation for maintenance .

672, 1258.

Methodist Church, New Haven , Ky.,

payment to ..

1772

Methodist Protestant Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

869

Methyl Alcohol (see Denatured alcohol).

Metlakahtla Indians,

given certain civic rights in Alaska, as to

shipping, etc....

1411

Metozen, Joseph, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ......

381

Metropolitan Police (see Police, D. C. ) .

Metropolitan Presbyterian Church , D. C. ,

taxes refunded ......

869

Mettler, James I.,

pension increased..

1857

Metts, Jane (widow),

pension....

2265

Mevis, Daniel S.,

pension increased .....

2320

Mexican- American Steamship Company. deficiency appropriation for refund of fine. 660

Mexican Kicking Kickapoo Indians,

Page.

appropriation for paying retained fund;

- payments...

362

Mexican War,

deficiency appropriation for volunteers ... 666

pensions allowed at age of 62 , for sixty

days' service in; rating....

879

Mexican Water Boundary Commission,

appropriation for continuing work of.... 291, 920

deficiency appropriation for continuing

work of...

885

Mexico, appropriation for ambassador to..
for secretary of embassy for second secretary. for third secretary.

286, 916 287,917 287, 917 287, 918

for Boundary Commission, United States

and ..

291, 920

for dam, Rio Grande, under irrigation

convention with..

1357

convention with, for equitable use of Rio Grande waters for irrigation ........... .2953
residents of, not liable for immigration tax. 898 special rules for entry of aliens from...... 908

Mexico City, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul -general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire...

293, 924

Meyer, Charles,

pension increased .

2028

Meyers, Michael,

pension increased ..

2278

Miah Maul Shoal , Delaware River,

appropriation for light station ..

1317

Miami, Fla.,

terms of court..

226

Michaelis, Edward, alias Edward Michel,

pension increased..

1545

Michalek, Hon. Anthony,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses..

661

Michener, Preston J.,

pension increased ..

2384

Michigan, appropriation for Indian service in..... 349, 1031

gift of condemned cannon for statue of

Governor Stevens T. Mason

834

settlement of claim against, constructing,

etc. , Saint Marys Fall Canal

187

Michigan City, Ind., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1102

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for..........

792, 1301

Michigan-Lake Superior Power Company,

lands for remedial works, Saint Marys

River..

1100

Mickler, Mary A. (widow), pension increased ....
Middaugh, Fredrick, pension increased .

2314 2440

Middleton, Anna E. (daughter) , pension...
Middleton Shoals , Savannah River, dam authorized at .
Middletown, N. Y., acquiring site for public building at, authorized . appropriation for............

1882 1239
783 795

Midshipmen, appropriation for special training ...... 577, 1199

dismissal and imprisonment for brutal or

cruel hazing..

105

INDEX.

3477

Midshipmen Continued. notification of vacancies and appointment of....
proceedings for punishing hazing, by............... Mikkelsen, Capt. Ejnar,
may act as master of American vessel on

Page.
578 104

expedition to Beaufort Sea...

481

Milan, Italy,

classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Milburn Wagon Company,

payment to...

2659

Mileage, Army,

appropriation for officers and contract sur-

geons ..

246, 1163

allowance; computations ...

246

deductions for transportation orders,

etc ...

246

allowance to officers on leave when sta-

tion changed ...

247

sea travel expenses; exceptions..

247

deficiency appropriation for, officers and

contract surgeons...

32, 645, 843

Mileage Books,

purchase authorized for Agricultural De-

partment employees...

1281

Mileage, Diplomatic and Consular Officers, appropriation for. deficiency appropriation for .
Miles, Edward V. , pension increased .
Miles, John S., pension increased .
Miles, Levi, pension increased .

922 634, 1372
1746
1760 2367

Miles, William H.,

pension increased .

1867

Milford, Del.,

acquiring site and erecting public build-

ing at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for...... Military Academy,
appropriation for support of the..
for pay of professors .. for pay of cadets.

792, 1301
521, 1063 521, 1063 521 , 1063

may be admitted March 1 , hereafter... 1063

for extra pay, officers ...

521, 1063

details of professors of ordnance and

gunnery, and military hygiene..... 1063

longevity.

522, 1064

for enlisted men.

522, 1064

for band.... for field musicians..

522, 1064 522, 1064

for general army service...

522, 1064

extra-duty pay of quartermaster serv-

ice....

1064

for cavalry detachment ..

523, 1064

for artillery detachment ; extra to gun-

ners ..

523, 1065

for extra-duty pay, detached service. 523, 1065

duplications forbidden...

525, 1066

for pay of civilians....

525, 1066

for expenses, board of visitors ..

526, 1068

for contingencies, Superintendent ... 526, 1068

for repairs and improvements ..

526, 1068

for fuel, lights , etc.

526, 1068

for postage, stationery, etc.

526, 1068

for transportation ; printing..

527, 1068

for expenses, department of cavalry, artillery, and infantry tactics...... 527, 1068

for department of civil and military en-

gineering..

527, 1069

for department of natural and experi-

mental philosophy.

527, 1069

for department of mathematics..

527, 1069

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--56

Military Academy-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for department of chemistry,

mineralogy, and geology.. for department of drawing...

527, 1069 528, 1069

for department of modern languages .. 528, 1070 for department of law and history..... 528, 1070

for department of practical military en-

gineering.......

528, 1070

for department of ordnance and gunnery, 528, 1070

for department of military hygiene... 1070

for lectures...

529, 1070

for miscellaneous and incidental
penses .... for library, etc.. for band instruments, etc.
for laundry, etc ... for policing barracks, etc.
report on children's school.

ex529, 1071 529, 1071 529, 1071 529, 1071 530, 1071
1071

for subsistence of cadets at Jamestown

Exposition.....

1072

for buildings and grounds.. for soldiers' hospital ..

530, 1072 530, 1072

for waterworks ..

530, 1072

for cadet hospital ..

530, 1072

for cadet barracks

531, 1072

for roads, etc..

531 , 1073

for repairing buildings, etc .. for restoring Fort Putnam.

531 , 1073 531, 1073

for quarters for civilians..

1073

for enlarging buildings, etc ..

531 , 1073

limit of cost for improvements in-

creased ..

531

for emplacements for breech-loading

rifles..

1073

deficiency appropriation for additional pay,

Superintendent..

1382

for professor of military hygiene .

1382

for assistant professor of mathematics . 1382

admission authorized of José Martín Calvo . 834

of José March Duplat...

1423

cadets dismissed from, ineligible for Rev-

enue-Cutter Service...

452

dental surgeon to be detailed to .

1163

Military Commissions,

appropriation for expenses.

245, 1163

Military Information Division, Army,

appropriation for contingent expenses .. 240, 1158

for translator, etc...

246, 1163

Military Parks (see National Parks).

Military Posts,

appropriation for construction, etc.; re-

striction ..

742, 1348

for Fort McIntosh, Tex ..

742

for Fort Wright, Wash..

742

for Fort Screven, Ga..

742

for Fort Monroe, Va .. for Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.. for Camp Douglas, Wis.. for Fort Crockett, Tex ..

742, 1348 742 742 742

for Fort Moultrie, S. C ...

743

for Fort Snelling, Minn ..

743

for Fort Monroe, repairs, sewers, etc. 743, 1348

for barracks and quarters for seacoast

defenses ...

1348

for reconstructing military prison , San

Francisco ...

1348

for Fort Greble , R. I ..

1348

for Presidio of San Francisco , Cal.

1348

for Fort Bayard, N. Mex..

1348

for Governors Island , N. Y

1349

.additional land for Fort Sheridan , Ill . ,

authorized ....

1348

use of embankment, etc. , Key West, Fla.. 1169

3478

INDEX .

Military Reservations,

Page.

exchange of lands, Fort Douglas, with Le

Grand Young..

612

portion of Fort Douglas, Utah, granted for

Utah University; conditions ...

195

Fort Robinson, Nebr. , granted to Craw-

ford, for park, etc ..

461

right of way granted through Fort Colum-

bia, Wash..

926

Fort Douglas, Utah..

927

Fort Sill, Okla..

613

Fort Wright, Wash. San Pedro, Cal ...

865, 927 915

Military Reservations , Abandoned, appropriation for surveying, etc ...... 726, 1334

deficiency appropriation for surveying,

Fort Buford, N. Dak .

47

disposal of Fort Shaw, Mont. , lands ..

228

land laws extended to Fort Crittenden,

Utah ...

808

Fort Rice, N. Dak..

808

part of Fort Brady, Mich. , reserved for

public building ..

190

Fort Sherman , Idaho, granted to Koote-

nai County.

456

proclamation granting part ofFort Sherman,

Idaho, to Coeur d'Alene , for ceme-

tery.

3004

Military Schools,

loan of naval equipment to certain, in-

creased ....

620

Military Secretary's Department, Army,

appropriation for contingent expenses,

headquarters...

240, 1158

for pay of officers ; longevity .

243, 1161

promotion of major to lieutenant- colonel

when vacancy occurs ...

1161

name changed to Adjutant-General's De-

partment .

1158

title of officers .

1158

Military Secretary's Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks , etc ..

418, 964

for rent..

421 , 967

printing restriction not applicable to record

and pension work in..

1367

to be Adjutant-General's office ..

1158

Military Stores,

use of funds from , transferred to Philippine

government..

258

Military Stores, Marine Corps, appropriation for..

580, 1202

Militia,

proclamation inviting, to participate in

Jamestown celebration ...

3205

Militia, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses.. for pay of troops..

513, 1154 513, 1154

deficiency appropriation for postage....

643

for engineers, naval battalion ; reimburse-

ment ..

643

Militia, Organized,

appropriation for expense of encampment

with Army...

249, 1164

payments after muster authorized for

whole period..........

249

for subsistence , etc. , officers of, attending

Army schools ..

1164

for field artillery for. balances available .

257, 1174 1174

deficiency appropriation for encamp-

ments, etc..

1401 , 1404

Militia, Organized Continued .

Page.

annual appropriation for arms, etc., for

issue to, increased ....

449

apportionment ; minimum force required

of each State.....

449

available for inspection..

450

promoting rifle practice..

450

horses, forage, etc. , for encampments, maneuvers, and field instruction .... 450

purchase, accounting, etc. , of arms, stores,

etc ..

450

*

survey and report of lost, destroyed, or

unserviceable property.

450

authority of Secretary of War..

450

new type of small arm and ammunition,

to be furnished ..

1174

Milk Bottles, etc. , D. C.,

protection of ownership, etc. , of......... 1006 Mill Springs, Ky.,

appropriation for national cemetery, en-

larging; condition...

1348

Miller, Abraham H.,

pension increased..

1737

Miller, Alexander,

pension increased .

1565

Miller, Amon,

pension increased .

1630

Miller, Anthony W.,

pension increased .

2209

Miller, Benjamin S.,

pension increased ..

1830

Miller, David,

pension increased .

2790

Miller, Daniel J., pension increased.
Miller, Edward, pension..
Miller, Edward C. , pension increased .
Miller, Elias, pension increased . .: ...
Miller, F. W. , payment to
Miller, Harriett E. (widow) , pension increased.
Miller, Henry, payment to ..
Miller, Henry D., pension increased.
Miller, Hurd L., pension increased ..
Miller, Jabez, pension increased
Miller, Jacob, Pennsylvania Volunteers, pension increased

1984 2757 2503 2515 2662 2055 2662 1927 2768 1850 2320

Miller, Jacob, War with Mexico, pension increased
Miller, James A. , pension increased

2587 2776

Miller, James C., pension increased

1880

Miller, James M., pension increased
Miller, Jesse S., pension increased

1730 2343

Miller, John, pension increased

2761

Miller, John Adams, pension increased

2587

Miller, John K. , pension increased

1732

Miller, Joseph, pension increased ..

1464

INDEX .

3479

Miller, Joseph E., pension increased .

Page. 1680

Miller, Julian Taylor,

may be appointed assistant surgeon , Navy. 892

Miller, Levi E.,

pension increased

2529

Miller, Margaret S. (widow),

pension increased

2223

Miller, Martha (widow) ,

pension increased .

1627

Miller, Mary Jane (widow),

pension increased

2680

Miller, Mary L. (widow),

pension..

1555

Miller, Mrs. R. E.,

payment to..

2812

Miller, Samuel A. ,

pension increased .

2698

Miller, Thomas,

pension increased

2360

Miller, Webster,

pension increased

2578

Miller, William, Michigan Volunteers, pension increased ...

2514

Miller, William, North Carolina Volunteers,

pension increased

1687

Miller, William G. ,

pension increased

2324

Millett, William J.,

pension increased .

1834

Milliman, Thomas,

pension increased .

1650

Millison, Simon,

pension increased

2330

Mills Avenue NE. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for opening . 1244

appropriation for..

1244

Mills Building, D. C.,

appropriation for employees, care of.... 423, 968

for rent, maintenance, etc. , for Navy . 427, 973

Mills, Edward J.,

pension increased

1529

Mills, Leonidas E.,

pension increased

2347

Mills, Robert,

pension increased

2261

Mills, Robert W.,

pension increased

2465

Milson, Thomas, pension increased
Miltimore, James, pension increased ..

2568  
2615

Milwaukee, Wis.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ...

746, 1353

for improvement of harbor, including

harbor of refuge ; contracts .

1100

for light station, on breakwater

711, 1317

light and fog signal station authorized ;

breakwater, Harbor of Refuge .

323

light station near North Point discon-

tinued

996

modification of improvement of inner har-

bor, authorized .

819

"Min," Steamship.

appropriation for repairs .

1292

Mine Inspectors,

appropriation for salaries and expenses . 430, 975

Miner, Henry D.,

pension increased

2622

Miner, Kate M. (widow),

pension increased ..

2272

Mineral Lands,

Page.

locations of, on unallotted lands of Black-

feet Indian Reservation , Mont ...... 1038 Mineral Lands, Okla.,

provisions for leases, etc., in educational

sections ...

273

Mineral Lands, Osage Indian Reservation,

Okla. , provisions for leasing, royalties , etc ....... 543

Mineral Resources of the United States,

appropriation for preparing report on... 727, 1336

for printing and binding..

760, 1367

Miners' Hospital, Wyo.,

land grants to State for, may be exchanged. 92

Mines, etc., Navy, appropriation for manufacture, etc ....... 1180

Mingo- Martin Coal Land Company,

may bridge Tug Fork of Big Sandy River

at Wolf Creek, Ky ...

1002

Mining Claims , Alaska,

annual labor requirements until issue of

patent....

1243

affidavits as to improvements, etc.

1243

Mining, Hydraulic, California,

may be permitted without restraining

works, if not injurious to navigation . 1001 Minisceongo River, N. Y.,
preliminary examination of, to be made... 1116

Ministers, etc., Alien, not excluded admission under contract .... 899

Ministers Plenipotentiary, Envoys Extraordinary and,

appropriation for salaries......

286, 916

not to be paid officials receiving other

salaries ...

287, 917

Minneapolis, Minn. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized..

783

appropriation for.

795

exchange of lands with, for flowage pur-

poses.......

188

examination, etc. , on use for power of sur-

plus waters of the Mississippi be-

tween Saint Paul and

456

Minneapolis , Saint Paul and Sault Sainte

Marie Railway Company,

may bridge Mississippi River in Morrison

County, Minn...

868

Red River in North Dakota and Minne-

sota ....

820

Minnesota,

appropriation for Indian service in...... 349, 1032

for drainage survey, etc. , of lands ceded

by Chippewas...

352

for surveyor-general , clerks, etc

435, 980

termination ..

980

for investigating infectious diseases of

domestic animals in.........

674, 1260

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing,

suppressing Indian hostilities..

1374

bridge authorized across Red River, in

North Dakota and..

820

certain allotments to Sioux , in Dakota

County, to be sold to..

78

certain reservoir lands in, restored to homestead entry; flowage rights reserved . 195

claim for suppressing Indian hostilities

reopened...

637

Cooper Island granted , for State forest re-

cerve or public park ..

352

dam, etc. , authorized across Mississippi

River, between Stearns and Sher-

burne counties ...

537

3480

INDEX .

Minnesota-Continued .
dispossessed settlers, etc. , on railwaygrants, allowed credit on making new entries .....
homesteaders allowed leave of absence...
time to prove residence, etc. , in, extended ...
lands granted for consumptive sanitarium; price....
flowage rights reserved . time extended for payment by settlers on
ceded reservations in.. Minnesota, Dakota and Pacific Railway Com-
pany, may bridge Missouri River, Walworth
County, S. Dak..
Minnesota Power and Trolley Company,
time extended for dam, etc. , across Mississippi River, by.
Minnesota River, Minn. ,
appropriation for improvement of.. preliminary examination to be made for
connecting, with Red River of the North ...

Page.
120 1419 1421 195 195 326
193
84 1102
1114

Minnick, John E.,

pension increased .

2202

Minor Coin, appropriation for transporting ..

706, 1312

deficiency appropriation for transport-

ing....

636, 1374

permanent appropriation for metal for,

increased .

132

coinage authorized at Philadelphia, San

Francisco, Denver, and New Orleans

mints ...

132

purchase of metal; use and accounting of

profits ..

132

exchange authorized at mints named.

132

redemption of, in sums not less than $20 .. 132

Minority Employees, House of Representatives ,

appropriation for.....

395, 941

Minors, D. C. ,

sale, gift, etc., of intoxicating liquors to, by

unlicensed persons , prohibited ... 1248-

penalty...

1249

Minot, N. Dak., terms of court at .

609, 610

Mints and Assay Offices,

appropriation for Director,' examiner, as-

sayer, etc ...

409, 955

for contingent expenses .

409, 955

for examinations, etc.

409, 956

for incidentals .

409, 956

for collecting precious metals statistics for salaries and expenses, Carson , Nev .
Denver, Colo .. New Orleans , La. Philadelphia, Pa. San Francisco, Cal . Boise, Idaho .. Charlotte, N. C. Deadwood , S. Dak Helena, Mont..
New York, N. Y. Saint Louis, Mo. Seattle, Wash ..

409, 956 413, 960 414, 960 414, 961 414, 961 414, 961 415, 961 415 , 962 415, 962
415, 962 415 , 962 416, 962 416, 962

deficiency appropriation for San Francisco,

Cal..

31 , 665

for examinations, etc.

31, 1373

for freight on bullion and coin.... 31 , 639 , 1376

for Philadelphia ....

1376

Denver, Colo., transfer of funds for clerks,

etc ....

842

Mints and Assay Offices - Continued. medallions for Zebulon Montgomery Pike Monument Association to be made . minor coins, permanent appropriation for metal increased..
coinage extended to other mints. use of seigniorage fund..
exchangeable at specified mints .. redemption in sums not less than $20.. preparation authorized of medals, etc.,
Jamestown Exposition.... Misbranded Foods or Drugs,
punishment for manufacture or trade in ..

Page.
198.
132 132 132 132 132
767
768

Misdemeanors (see Crimes and Misdemeanors) .

Mishler, Joseph J.,

pension increased .

1976

Misner, John,

pension increased .

2020

Mispillion River, Del. , appropriation for improvement of ......... 1081

Mission Indian Lands, Cal.,

proclamation restoring to public domain,

two sections reserved for.....

3037

Mission Indians, Cal. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of.............. 333, 1022 additional lands to be set apart, etc. , for .. 1022

Mission Schools, Indian,

on reservations to receive rations of en-

rolled pupils......

326

Missionary Board, Brethern Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

869

Mississippi,

appropriation for dredge for improving

harbors on coast of...

1088

Mississippi Choctaw Indians, claims of estate of Charles F. Winton to be

heard in Court of Claims ..

140

enrollment with Choctaws..

341

proof of removal may be made by heirs of

deceased; limit..

145

Mississippi River, appropriation for lighting.

713, 1320

for improvement of Southwest Pass ;

contracts...

737, 1089

from the Missouri to Minneapolis ; con-

tracts, etc...

738, 1105

for improvement, at Moline, Ill .

739, 1345

Saint Paul to Minneapolis, Locks and

Dams 1 and 2

739, 1345

for maintaining South Pass channel..

739

for improvement of South Pass channel;

contracts ....

1089

for improvement of Head of Passes to the

Ohio.

740, 1103

for improvement of, from the Ohio to the

Missouri; contracts, etc.

1104

Commission authorized ; duties ..

1104

for improvement of reservoirs at head-

waters; cession of lands ..

1105

for bridge, Fort Snelling to Saint Paul,

Minn ....

1346

allotment for levees between Head of the

Passes and Cape Girardeau , Mo , in

discretion of Commission ..

208

bridge authorized across, Clinton, Iowa;

reconstruction, etc ...

879

Louisiana, Mo ..........

933

Morrison County, Minn .

868

Saint Louis, Mo ..

892

by city of Saint Louis.

461

Saint Paul and Fort Snelling, Minn .

66

control of expenses .

1418

INDEX .

3481

Mississippi River- Continued . commission to report on use of surplus waters of, between Saint Paul and Minneapolis, Minn .. composition...

Page.
456 457

propositions; whether there will be sur-

plus for power purposes ....

457

if available for light and power, public

buildings, etc..

457

feasibility of disposing of power;

plans, etc..

457

meetings; time of report.

457

dam, etc., authorized across, at Bemidji,

Minn...

210

Clearwater, Minn..

266

Morrison County, Minn .

209

Monticello, Minn..

264

Saint Cloud, Minn..

537

exchange of lands with Minneapolis, Minn. ,

for Lock and Dam No. 1 ........

188

modification authorized of bridge across,

at Prairie du Chien , Wis..

615

time extended for bridging, at Fort Snel-

ling, Minn..

1418

Saint Louis, Mo..

883

time extended for dam, etc. , at Clearwater,

Minn ..

1235

Monticello, Minn.

1235

Morrison County, Minn ..

1219

Rock Island Rapids.

876

Sauk Rapids, Minn ..

1058

Wright and Sherburne counties, Minn

84

use of balance for improving, from the Ohio

to the Missouri , authorized

838

Mississippi River Commission, appropriation for expenses, improvements *from Head of Passes to the Ohio .. 740, 1103

authorized to make allotments of appropri-

ations for levees...

208

additional contracts authorized .

1103

dredge boats, etc. , to maintain 9-foot

channel..

1103

allotments for harbors, etc..

1103

with two engineer officers to report on 14-

foot channel, Saint Louis to mouth

of river, etc...

1104

special subjects ..

1104

Mississippi River Power Company,

may dam Mississippi River at Clearwater,

Minn ...

266

near Monticello , Minn ..

264

time extended for dam, etc., across Missis-

sippi River at Clearwater, Minn.... 1235

** at Monticello , Minn ....

1235

Mississippi Sound, Ala. ,

preliminary examination to be made of

channel with Mobile Bay......

1111

Mississippi Sound, Miss.,

payment for dredging channel and anchor-

age basin between Ship Island Har-

bor and Gulfport.

833

Missoula Forest Reserve, Mont.,

proclamation establishing..

3259

Missoula, Mont. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783.

appropriation for.

795

Missouri Central Railroad Company,

may bridge Missouri River at Glasgow, Mo. 818

Saint Charles and Saint Louis counties,

Mo ....

818

Missouri Eastern Judicial District, Phelps County transferred from western district to eastern division of........ 875

Missouri River,

Page.

appropriation for lighting ,

713, 1320

for improvement of, to Kansas City..

1105

from Kansas City to Sioux City

1105

from Sioux City to Fort Benton ; ap-

plication..

1106

deficiency appropriation for destroying ice

gorge near Vermilion, S. Dak..

1381

bridge authorized across, in Broadwater

and Gallatin counties, Mont..

456

Glasgow, Mo..

818

Kansas City, Kans ..

884

Kansas City, Mo ..

196

Lewis and Clarke County, Mont.

457

Saint Charles and Saint Louis counties,

Mo ....

818

Walworth County, S. Dak.

193

Walworth and Dewey counties, S. Dak.. 95

dams, etc., authorized across, in Montana . 111, 912

preliminary examination of, to be made

from mouth to Sioux City; restric-

tion ..

1115

time extended for bridging, between Kan-

sas City and Sibley, Mo ..

911

South Omaha, Nebr .

817

Yankton , S. Dak..

9, 10, 897, 1058

time extended for dam across, in Montana . 1415

Missouri River Improvement Company,

dam , etc., authorized across Missouri River in Montana, by.
Missouri Western Judicial District,

912 .

Phelps County transferred to eastern dis-

trict from..

875

Mitchell, Andrew T. ,

pension increased'.

2052

Mitchell, Catharine R. (widow),

pension increased .

1695

Mitchell, Cora F. (daughter),

pension..

1775

Mitchell, Cornelia (widow of Nathan) ,

pension..

2008

Mitchell, Cornelia ( widow of Leonard Peaslee),

pension..

2563

Mitchell, David,

pension increased .

2244

Mitchell, John H. , late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for payment to

widow..

43

Mitchell, Isaiah,

pension increased

1640

Mitchell, John C.,

pension increased

2555

Mitchell, John T.,

pension increased .

2366

Mitchell, Levi,

pension increased .

2519

Mitchell, Mary (widow),

pension ..

1477

Mitchell, Mildred W. (widow),

pension increased .

1889

Mitchell, Mollie J. (widow),

pension increased .

2432

Mitchell, S. Dak.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1301

Mitchell, William B.,

pension increased

1922

Mitsui Bussan Kaisa,

payment to ..

2660

Mittag, Azelia (widow), pension....
Moats, Sanford H., pension.....

2740. 2419

3482

INDEX .

Mobile, Ala. ,

Page.

appropriation for repairs , etc. , defenses of . 1059

for replacing ammunition , etc. , damaged

by storm..

1060

for improvement of harbor ; contracts;

dredge....

1087

for improvement of bar..

1087

Mobile and Girard Railroad,

transfers allowed homesteaders on grants in

Alabama to .

1408

Mobile Artillery, Army,

appropriation for altering, etc........ 463, 1060

Mobile Bay, Ala.,

construction of bridge, wharves, etc. , Dau-

phin Island to Cedar Point..

10

preliminary examination to be made of

channel with Mississippi Sound .... 1111

Mobile Railway and Dock Company,

may build bridge, wharves , etc. , Cedar Point to Dauphin Island, Ala...... 10

Mobley, Cornelia A. (widow),

pension increased

1929

Moebius, Albert,

payment to .

2662

Moffat, David H.,

military record corrected ..

1959

Mohan, Michael,

pension increased

1442

Mohn, John F.,

pension increased

2287

Moieties,

appropriation for compensation in lieu

of..

.... 708, 1315

Mokelumne River, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1107 Molel Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 369, 1045

Moline, Ill.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

appropriation for .

792, 1301

Molokai Island, Hawaii,

light station established on north shore .... 996

appropriation for ..

1319

" Monadnock," U. S. S..

appropriation for modernizing battery of .. 1180

Monaghan, Minor B. ,

pension increased .

2491

Moncton, New Brunswick, classification and salary of consul ......... 100
Money-Order Division, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc ...

438, 984

for miscellaneous expenses .

471 , 1210

for supplies ..

476, 1215

deficiency appropriation for supplies .

42

Monin, Rawleigh M.,

pension increased .

2461

Monitors, Navy,

appropriation for new turret sights................. 1180

for fire-control instruments.....

1180

Monks, William,

pension increased ....

1929

Monongahela Connecting Railroad Comppany,

may bridge Monongahela River, Pittsburg,

Pa ...

539

Monongahela River,

appropriation for lighting......

713, 1320

for improvement of; Lock and Dam 3 ... 738

Lock and Dam No. 5 ; contracts .

1080

deficiency appropriation for post lights .... 660

bridge authorized across. Brownsville, Pa . 128

Pittsburg, Pa .......

539, 1235

post lights authorized..

324

Monongahela River-Continued.

Page.

time extended for bridge, at Brownsville,

Pa...

1236

Charleroi to Rostraver, Pa .

884

Webster, Pa..

17,876

Monopolies, Coal and Oil,

appropriation for examinations, etc...

705

deficiency appropriation for examinations,

etc ...

119

investigation ordered of, etc.

823

Monroe, Farmerville and Northwestern Rail-

way Company,

may bridge D'Arbonne River, at Farmer-

ville, La..

1254

Ouachita River, at Monroe, La..

1254

Monroe, Hiram E. ,

pension increased

1515

Monroe, John, Illinois Volunteers,

pension increased

2443

Monroe, John, New York Volunteers,

pension increased

1672

Monroe, La., bridge authorized across Ouachita River at. 1254
Monroe, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1098 Monroe Street, Anacostia, D. C.,

extension of, to new bridge, condemnation

of land

492

Monroe Street, Brookland, D. C., appropriation for bridge over railroad

tracks; payment by railroad com-

pany ..

1130

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

ing..

1222

appropriation for .

1222

Monroe, William V. ,

pension increased

2798

Montana,

appropriation for Indian service in .... 353, 1034

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in..........

353, 1034

for purchasing school sections for, on

Blackfeet Reservation .

1038

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc

435, 980

for surveying boundary with Idaho ... 726

deficiency appropriation for incidentals,

Indian service..

38, 655

for surveyor-general's office .

654

Big Belt Forest Reserve, established

3151

area modified

3283

Big Hole Forest Reserve, established ..

3254

Big Hole Forest Reserve , Idaho and , en-

larged ....

3281

Billings land district, established ; office .. 11

Bitter Root Forest Reserve , Idaho , and

area modified ...

3044

bridge authorized across Yellowstone River

in ...

97

Cabinet Forest Reserve, Idaho and , estab-

lished ...

3295

Crazy Mountains Forest Reserve , estab-

lished ..

3224

Crow Indian Reservation ceded lands,

opened to entry

3200

dam authorized across Missouri River in . 111 , 912

disposal of abandoned Fort Shaw Reserva-

tion ...

228

Ekalaka Forest Reserve , established..

3245

Elkhorn Forest Reserve, established .

3024

forest reserves not to be created or added

to in, except by act of Congress

1271

Gallatin Forest Reserve , lands added to .. 3193

Glasgow land district in Valley County,

established ...

929

Helena Forest Reserve , established

3196

INDEX.

3483

Montana- Continued.

Page.

Hell Gate Forest Reserve, established

3168

enlarged

3213, 3230

homesteaders allowed leaves of absence ... 1419

time to prove residence, etc. , in, ex-

tended .....

1421

Kootenai Forest Reserve, established .

3225

Kootenai Forest Reserve, Idaho and, lands

added to..

3253

Lewis and Clark Forest Reserve, enlarged . 3304

Little Belt Forest Reserve, name of Little

Belt Mountain Forest Reserve

changed to, and area enlarged

3180

lands added to

3254

lands excluded .

3277

Little Rockies Forest Reserve, established . 3290

Lolo Forest Reserve, established ..

3234

enlarged...

3260

Long Pine Forest Reserve, established .. 3235

Madison Forest Reserve, area modified . 2995

enlarged

3148

Missoula Forest Reserve , established ..

3259

Otter Forest Reserve, established...

3305

Pryor Mountains Forest Reserve , estab-

lished ....

3258

sale of army subsistence supplies in, per-

mitted for three months

1421

selection authorized in lieu of lands relin-

quished within Red Rock Lakes

Reservoir site ....

150

by owners, etc. , of lands relinquished... 151

lands relinquished restored to public do-

main .

151

Snowy Mountains Forest Reserve, estab-

lished ..

3246

surveys of certain townships in, directed .. 726

Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyo. , Idaho,

and , enlarged .

3049

area modified

3291

Montana College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts,

lease of lands in Chouteau County to, for

dry-land farming experiments.... 552

Montano, Josefita (widow),

pension increased.

2378

Monteith, William,

pension increased

1599

Montenegro, Greece and, appropriation for minister to for secretary of legation ....

... 287, 917 287, 917

Monterey, Cal.,

appropriation for monument to Commodore

John D. Sloat at

1408

entry, ett., of vessels for petroleum , per-

mitted at.

23

title to cuartel lot in, released to .

267

Monterey Forest Reserve, Cal. ,

proclamation establishing..

3218

Monterey, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

66 appropriation for clerk hire...... Monterey," U. S. S.,

293, 924

appropriation for modernizing battery of.. 1180

Montevideo, Uruguay.

classification and saiary of consul ..

99

Montezuma Castle National Monument, Ariz.,

proclamation setting aside....

3265

Montezuma Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

proclamation establishing ..

3106

enlarging

3307

Montgomery, Ala.,

limit of cost increased , public building ... 773

appropriation for..

789

Montgomery County, Tenn.,

Page.

may bridge Cumberland River, at Clarks-

ville ..

134

Montgomery, John W.,

pension increased

2239

Montgomery, Joseph,

pension increased .

2070

Montgomery, Margaret A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2079

Montgomery, Mary A. (widow),

pension...

2094

Montgomery, Theodore F.,

pension increased ..

2132

Monthly Pay, Army,
to be computed as thirty days. Monticello Forest Reserve, Utah,
proclamation establishing.. Monticello, Minn.,
dam authorized across Mississippi River near.
time extended for dam, etc. , of Mississippi River....

248 3272
264 1235

Montreal, Quebec,

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire...

293, 924

Monument Hill, Greeneville, Tenn.,

burial place of Andrew Johnson accepted, and to be used as national cemetery. 259

Monuments,

appropriation for Commodore John Barry . 223

for Princeton , N. J. , battlefield ....

224

for Provincetown, Mass. , landing of the

Pilgrims, etc..

225

for erecting, etc. , Kings Mountain battle

ground, S. C...

286

for, to Commodore John D. Sloat at Mon-

terey, Cal .....

1408

for Tippecanoe battle ground , Ind ..

1410

for, commemorating battle of New Or-

leans, 1812 ....

1411

for site and pedestal , Stephenson Grand

Army memorial.

1424

selection of site for statue of Henry Wads-

worth Longfellow, Washington,

D. C...

.830

appropriation for .

830

obsolete cannon, donated for, to Gen.

Henry Leavenworth..

839

Monuments, National (see National Monu-

ments) .

Moody, Charles D.,.

pension increased

2774

Moody, Henry,

pension increased

2148

Moody, Thomas L.,

pension increased

2505

Moomaw, James M.,

pension increased .

1802

Mooney, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased

2570

Mooney, Patrick,

pension increased .

2013

Moore, Abbie C. (widow),

pension increased .

1542

Moore, Alexander,

pension increased

2091

Moore, David H.,

pension increased .

2560

Moore, Delilah (widow),

pension...

2007

Moore, Eliza (widow),

pension increased .

2002

Moore, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ..

1778

3484

INDEX .

Moore, James A. ,

Page.

may construct canal from Lake Washington

to Puget Sound , Wash..

231

modification of plan authorized ..

1108

Moore, John Bassett,

deficiency appropriation for expenses , editing Digest of International Law .... 1372

Moore, John D.,

pension increased

1562

Moore, John L.,

pension increased .

2074

Moore, John N.,

pension increased .

1776

Moore, John P., pension increased
Moore, Lewis D. , pension increased .
Moore, Mary C. (widow of Thomas), pension increased ..
Moore, Mary C. (widow of William H.) , pension increased .

1686 2115 2238 1813

Moore, Newton,

pension increased .

2186

Moore, Reese,

pension increased

1987

Moore, Rittenhouse,

appropriation for reimbursement ... ..... 1291

Moore, Robert S.,

pension increased .

1554

Moore, Samuel,

pension increased

2590

Moore, Troy,

pension increased .

1675

Moore, Viola, formerly Viola Faribault, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

373

Moore, Virginia C. (widow), pension increased
Moore, William, pension increased
Moorehead, William, pension increased..
Moores Creek Monument Association,
appropriation for repairing monument, etc. Moqui Indian Reservation, Ariz. ,
allotment of lands in severalty to Indians of...

2048 1724 1438 259
1021

Moran, Louise Barbier, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

374

Morehart, David,

pension increased .

1845

Morehead, Daniel B.,

pension increased .

2673

Morehead, William,

pension increased .

2147

Morey, Augustus J.,

pension increased.

1911

Morgan, Agusta P. (widow),

pension increased .

2283

Morgan, C.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment .

1388

Morgan, Charles F. M.,

pension increased .

2258

Morgan, Edmund,

pension increased .

1825

Morgan, Edwin,

pension increased .

2115

Morgan, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased .

1697

Morgan, Elizabeth Moore (widow),

pension increased .

2302

Morgan, John M.,

pension increased .

2718

Morgan, Mary (widow) , pension increased ..
Morgan, Mary C. (widow) ,
pension. Morgan, William J.,
pension increased ..
Morgan, William M., pension increased .

Page. 2454 1658
1700 2255

Morgan, William T.,

pension..

1916

Moriarty, Bartholomew,

pension increased .

1479

Morland, David N. ,

pension increased .

1934

Morley, Alfred W.,

pension increased .

1810

Morley, Calvin E., pension increased .

... 2401

Morning Gun, appropriation for firing
Morocco, appropriation for minister to .
for secretary of legation . for Cape Spartel light . general act for reforms in.
Morphine, D. C., restriction on sale, etc. , of

257, 1174
287, 917 287, 917 289, 919
2905
179

Morrill, Alice W. (widow),

pension increased .

2210

Morrill, Ezekiel,

pension increased .

2278

Morrill, James H. ,

pension increased .

2178

Morris, James M.,

pension increased..

2560

Morris, Joann (widow),

pension..

1503

Morris, John A. ,

pension increased .

2688

Morris, John F. ,

pension increased ..

2161

Morris, Minn.,

appropriation for Indian school........ 350, 1032

Morris, S. Harriet (widow),

pension increased ..

1594

Morris, Sarah C. (widow),

pension increased ..

2358

Morris , Thomas,

pension increased .

2497

Morris, William H. , pension increased..
Morrison County, Minn.,
bridge authorized across Mississippi River in..
dam authorized across Crow Wing River between Cass County and..
Mississippi River in.. location, etc., of dam, etc. , across Missis-
sippi River in, modified . Morrison, Edith F. (widow),
pension.. Morrison, Felix G.,
return from President requested of bill to pension ..
Morrison, Francis M., pension increased ..
Morrison, Harriet L. (widow), pension..
Morrison, John H. , pension increased .
Morrison, Matilda (widow), pension increased .
Morrison, Oscar B., pension increased .

1612
868 296 209 1219 2008
2840 2348 1916 2794 · 2012 2218

INDEX.

3485

Morrison, Samuel H., pension increased .
Morrison, William R. , and H. W. Haines,
may build dam, etc., across Mississippi River, at Bemidji, Minn....
Morrissey, Daniel,

Page. 2140
210

Motor Vehicles, D. C. , registration and identification rules...
speed regulations ; penalties . Mottville, Mich. ,
dam authorized across Saint Joseph River near

Page. 1126 621
1254

pension increased ..
Morrow, Ella B. (widow) , pension..
Morrow, Fannie E. (widow), pension increased .
Morrow, James, pension increased ..
Morrow, Thomas E. , pension increased .
Morrow, William H., pension increased ..
Morse, Jackson, alias Charles W. Paige, pension increased ..
Morse, Milo B., pension increased ..

2154 2743 1778 2345 1526 1713 1501 1782

Moules, John,

pension increased .

1740

Moulton, Jotham T. ,

pension increased .

1828

Mount Carmel, Ill.,

bridge authorized across Wabash River at. 820

Mount Jezriel Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

869

Mount Moriah Baptist Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded .

869

Mount Pleasant Congregational Society, D. C.,

taxes refunded

870

Mount Pleasant, Mich., appropriation for Indian school .
··Mount Rainier Forest Reserve, Wash. ,

349, 1031

Morson, William, pension increased ..

proclamation enlarging, and changing

2586

name to Rainier..

3296

Morton, Harriet A. (widow), pension.
Morton, Louisa Anne (widow), pension increased ..
Morton, Oliver, pension increased ..

Mount Rainier National Park, Wash., 2010 appropriation for management, etc
for wagon road into .. 2684 Mount Taylor Forest Reserve, N. Mex. ,
proclamation establishing.. 2376 Mountain Cannon, Army,

729, 1337 744, 1349
3239

Moscow, Idaho,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized

778

appropriation for..

792, 1301

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc.

463, 1059

Mouser, Thomas B. ,

pension increased .

1757

Moscow, Russia,

Mowan, Baltzar,

classification and salary of consul....

100 pension increased ..

1941

Mose, Daniel,

Mower, George W.,

pension increased.

2541 pension increased ..

1675

Mose, Jacob, pension increased .

Mowrey, Harley,

2757 pension increased ..

2018

Moser, Samuel,

Mrugalski, Joseph,

pension increased ..

2275 payment to .

2662

Moser, William H.,

Muehlberg, Hermann,

pension increased .

2371 pension increased ..

1954

Moses and Sons, W. B. ,

deficiency appropriation for furniture, Cap-

itol..

1388

Moses Indian Agreement,

trust patents to allottees of Columbia and

Colville reservations, Wash. , under.. 55

Mueller, Max, pension increased .
Muhlenfeld, Martha E. (widow) , pension..
Mukden, Manchuria, classification and salary of consul-general..

2489 · 2760
99

Mosher,. Silas, pension increased .

Mulford, James B.,

1862 granted honorable discharge ..

2305

Mosher, Robert Brent,

Mull, Edward K.,

deficiency appropriation for......

660 pension increased .

2480

Mosier, Andrew J., pension increased .
Moss, Buford P., pension increased .

Mullally, Nancy J. (widow),

1917 pension...

2420

Mullen, James P. ,

1472 pension increased .

2355

Moss, James,

Mullen, John H. ,

pension increased ..

1823 pension increased .

2227

Moths, Gypsy and Brown Tail,

Muller, Fritz,

appropriation for emergency fund to meet

pension increased ..

1531

spread of..

696, 1280 Mullin , Rose V. ,

pension increased .

1898

Mott, Alexander B.,

pension increased .

2479 Mullin, Sidney F.,

pension increased .

1551

Motor Boats,

Mullins, Calvin S. ,

gasoline for, allowed on vessels not carrying

pension increased .

2513

passengers for hire..

204 Muncher, Joseph,

Motor Propelled Vessels,

pension increased .

1912

carrying passengers and freight subject to

Muncie, Ind.,

steamboat inspection, etc. , provi-

appropriation for public building .................

698

sions .

194 Muncy, James W.,

fishing vessels excepted

194 pension increased .

2680

regulations for vessels of 15 tons and

Mundy, Mary E. (widow),

under .

194 pension increased ...

2205

3486

INDEX.

Munger, Israel E., pension increased ..

Page. 1860

Munich, Germany,

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.

294, 924

Municipal Building, D. C. , appropriation for construction............ 489 , 1126
Municipal Buildings, D. C.,

electric plants in, prohibited ; exception.. 1371

Municipal Lodging House, etc. , D. C., appropriation for expenses .

512, 1153

Municipalities, Indian Territory,

improvement of streets and alleys .

147

assessment and tax on property

147

maximum charge

147

issue of improvement scrip for

147

taxation of tangible railroad property.... 148

on all property; appeals from assess-

ments

148

Munising, Mich.,

preliminary examination of harbor to be

made

1114

Munns, Brice P.,

pension increased .

2290

Munoz and Villanueva,

appropriation for purchasing coal claims of,

in the Philippines .

23

Munsil, Rhoda (widow),

pension..

2008

Munson, Francis M.,

pension increased ..

1540

Munson, Margaret (widow),

pension increased .

2223

Murch, James A. ,

pension increased ..

1942

Murderkill River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1081

Murdough, Samuel C. ,

pension increased .

2692

Murfreesboro, Tenn. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

781

appropriation for.

794, 1301

Murphy, Daniel B. ,

granted honorable discharge.....

2221

Murphy, Edward,

pension increased ..

2405

Murphy, Felix G.,

pension increased ..

2314

Murphy, Franklin,

appointed on Board of Managers, Volunteer

Soldiers' Home

828

Murphy, James,

pension increased .

2200

Murphy, John E. ,

pension increased ..

1878

Murphy, Sallie H. (widow),

pension increased ..

1580

Murphy, William J.,

may dam Red Lake River, Minn .................

65

Murray, Charles T.,

pension increased .

2236

Murray, Elizabeth (widow),

pension..

1669

Murray, Francis,

pension increased .

2750

Murray, James C.,

pension increased .

2503

Murray, John P. ,

pension increased ..

2687

Murray, Mary (widow),

pension .

2488

Murray, Thomas W.,

pension increased ..

2259

Murray, William A.,

Page.

pension increased ..

1823

Murrey, Elizabeth A. (widow),

pension increased..

2489

Murrow Indian Orphans Home, Ind. T.,

patents of Choctaw and Chickasaw lands

issued to.....

142

fractional rights may be conveyed to

142

additional lands conveyed to

142

Murtha, James,

pension increased .......

2510

Muscatine, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized

at

777

appropriation for..

791, 1301

Muscle Shoals, Ala. ,

dams, etc. , for power stations authorized

across Tennessee River at ..

52

permits for dams withheld .

1094

return from President requested of bill aú-

thorizing dams , etc. , at

2829

Muscogee, Okla. ,

terms of court ..

275

Museums, Public,

historic antiquities from public lands to be

preserved in .

225

Musgrove, Lucinda C. (widow),

pension increased ..

2555

'Muskegon, Mich. ,

appropriation for public building.

698

for improvement of harbor .....

1097

Muskingum River, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of; Lock

and Dam No. 11

1095

Muskrat , David, may bring suit in Court of Claims for Chero-

kees, to determine validity of laws

restricting alienation, etc

1028

Muzzle-Loading Field Guns,

appropriation for converting to breech-

loading, for saluting ..

1060

Myers, Catharine (widow) ,

pension increased..

2080

Myers, Eugene A. (son),

pension...

2235

Myers, George,

pension increased .

2616

Myers, George C.,

pension increased ....

1672

Myers, Isaac,

deficiency appropriation for contested-elec-

tion expenses .

661

Myers, Kate (widow),

pension increased.

2287

Myers, Noah,

pension..

2081

Myers, Thomas E.,

pension increased .

1742

Mystic River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of...

1075

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1114

N.
Naddy, Patrick, granted honorable discharge...
Nadeau (née Toupin) , Amanda, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to .... Nagasaki, Japan,
classification and salary of consul .........
Nagiiyoptewin, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to .
Nagle, William S. , pension increased ..

2816
365 99 357 1766

INDEX.

3487

Nahant, Mass.,

Page.

appropriation for fencing, etc. , Government

reservation .

259

Nahrgaang, Charles,

payment to .

2662

Nanking, China,
classification and salary of consul .. Nansemond River, Va.,
appropriation for improvement of...
Nantes, France,
classification and salary of consul . Nanticoke River, Del. and Md., 4
appropriation for improvement of......... Nanticoke River, Md.,
preliminary examination to be made of Northwest Fork .

99 1082
100 1081 1113

Nantucket, Mass., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1075

Nantucket Shoals, Mass., light vessel established off.. appropriation for..

322 710, 1317

Napa River, Cal., appropriation for improvement of.. .... 1107

Napewastowin, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled ...

361

Naphtha-Propelled Vessels ,

steamboat inspection provisions for..

194

Naples, Italy,

classification and salary of consul..

99

appropriation for clerk hire

294, 924

Narcotics, D. C.,

restrictions on sale of cocaine, opium, etc. 179

Narrin, William A. ,

pension increased .

2542

Narron, Robert L.,. pension increased .

.1816

Nash, Albert H. ,

pension increased..

2441

Nash, Allen J.,

pension increased.

1453

Nash, Charles V. ,

pension increased .

2678

Nash, Daniel D.,

pension increased.

1658

Násh, Mary Amanda (widow),

pension increased...

2086

Nash, Susan E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2050

Nashville, Tenn. ,

appropriation for public building..

698, 1301

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing...

31

terms of court .

298, 882

two bridges authorized across Cumberland

River at

135

time for construction extended .

927

Nassau, West Indies,

classification and salary of consul...

100

Natchez Electric Street Railway and Power Com-

pany,

granted right of way along roadway to na-

tional cemetery

1248

Natchez, Miss.,

right of way granted along roadway to na

tional cemetery

1248

Natchitoches, La.,

deficiency appropriation for furniture, pub-

lic building...

1374

National Banks (see also National Currency) ,

American, Graham , Va. , may moveto Blue-

field, W. Va .

13

contribution of money by, at political elec-

tions prohibited ..

864

penalty ......

865

National Banks-Continued.

Page.

designated depositaries to receive public

moneys of all classes..

1290

security required, etc..

1290

to receive national currency notes at par. 1290

distribution to be equitable between sec-

tions and States ..

1290

withdrawing circulation, to receive bonds

held as security by depositing law-

ful money.

1290

former restriction on reissue removed.. 1290

limit increased to $9,000,000 a month.

1290

diminished tax on notes secured by canal

bonds .

5

individual liabilities to , not no exceed one-

tenth of capital and one-tenth of sur-

plus..

451

total not to exceed 30 per cent of capital. 451

commercial discounts, etc., not included . 451

National Cemeteries,

appropriation for maintenance..

740, 1346

for care, etc. , Old Fort Mackinac, Mich.. 740

for Fort Crittenden, Utah; land accepted. 740

for superintendents ...

740, 1346

for headstones for soldiers ' graves .. 740, 1346

for repairing roadways to ; restrictions for burial of indigent soldiers .. for Antietam , Md . , battlefield for Confederate Mound , Chicago, Ill .. for Arlington, Va.. for Gettysburg, Pa for Knoxville, Tenn for San Juan , Porto Rico .. for Madison Barracks, N. Y. for Vicksburg, Miss .. for Pensacola, Fla..

740, 1346 740, 1346 741, 1346
741, 1347 741, 1347
741 741, 1348
741 742 1347 1347

for Port Hudson, La .

1347

for Keokuk, Iowa..

1347

for Fort Scott, Kans .

1347

for San Francisco, Cal.

1347

for Greenville, Tenn ..

1348

for Mill Springs, Ky.

1348

for flags for decorating graves , Memorial

Day.

1165

for road, etc., Balls Bluff, Va.

258

Fredericksburg, Va..

259

Salisbury, N. C.

259

deficiency appropriation for Fort Donelson ,

Tenn .

644

right of way granted along roadway,

Natchez, Miss ..

1248

Vicksburg, Miss .

849

National Child Labor Committee, D. C. ,

incorporated ; objects, etc..

914

National Currency,

appropriation for superintendent redemp-

tion of, clerks , etc ...

407, 953

for repairs to cutting machines, etc .. 407, 954

for expenses ; superintendent, etc. 407, 954

for special examinations, etc ..

408, 954

for examinations of national banks, etc. 413, 960.

for distinctive paper.

706, 1313

deficiency appropriation for counters, etc. ,

redemption of...

28

for special examinations, etc.

1373

issue of five-dollar notes not affected by cur-

rency act.

1290

limitation on monthly withdrawals from

circulation, extended ...

1290

National Education Association of the United

States, D. C.,

incorporated; purposes, powers , etc.

804

National Forests (see also Forest Reserves).

forest reserves to be known as..

1269

3488

INDEX.

National Guard (see Militia, Organized) .

Page.

National Homefor Disabled Volunteer Soldiers,

appropriation for expenses, Dayton, Ohio 745, 1351

Milwaukee, Wis..

746, 1353

Togus, Me..

747, 1353

Hampton, Va.

747, 1353

Leavenworth, Kans .

747, 1354

Santa Monica, Cal.

748, 1354

Marion, Ind..

748, 1354

Danville, Ill..

748, 1355

Johnson City, Tenn .

748, 1355

Battle Mountain Sanitarium, S. Dak.. 749,

1355

for clothing, all branches..

749, 1355

for salaries and expenses, Board of Man-

agers..

749, 1355

for aid to State and Territorial Homes. 749, 1356.

deficiency appropriation for Leavenworth,

Kans ..

34, 1383

for Danville, Ill . for Johnson City, Tenn. for Hampton, Va ..

34, 1383 34
34, 1382

for State and Territorial Homes ... 34, 644, 1383

for Santa Monica, Cal...

1401

for objects of amusement, all Branches.. 1382

managers to control Battle Mountain Sani-

tarium , S. Dak...

83

managers appointed : Charles M. Anderson,

William Warner, Franklin Murphy,

and James M. Wadsworth ...

828

National Monuments,

established; Devils Tower, Wyo .

3236

El Morro, N. Mex ....

3264

Montezuma Castle, Ariz.

3265

Petrified Forest , Ariz ...

3266

National Museum,

appropriation for continuing construction

of new building ; disbursements,

etc.

704, 1311

for salaries, fixtures, etc.
for heating, lighting, etc .. for preserving, etc. , collections .
for books, repairs, etc .. for rent, etc ..

704, 1311 704, 1311 704, 1311 704, 1311 704, 1311

for printing and binding .

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for preserving

collections...

667

National Parks,

appropriation for Yellowstone . 729, 743, 1337, 1349

for Yosemite...

729, 1337

for Sequoia..

729, 1337

for General Grant..

729, 1337

for Crater Lake...

729, 1337

for Mesa Verde ..

1337

for Mount Rainier..

729, 744, 1337, 1349

for Wind Cave..

729, 1337

for Casa Grande Ruin

729

for Chickamauga and Chattanooga .. 744, 1349

for Shiloh ....

744, 1349

for Gettysburg .

744, 1350

for Vicksburg..

744, 1350

Mesa Verde, Colo . , created .

616

name of Sulphur Springs Reservation,

Okla. , changed to Platt .

837

Yellowstone, regulation of hotel leases, etc. 207

hotel leases extended ...

1219

Yosemite, acceptance of cession , etc ..

831

National Safe Deposit, Savings and Trust

Company, D. C.,

may change name to National Savings and

Trust Company.

868

National Savings and Trust Company, D. C. , ^
name of National Safe Deposit, Savings and Trust Company, changed to.... 868

National Society, Sons ofthe American Revolu- Page.

tion, D. C., incorporated; purposes, powers, etc ....... 227

National Trophy, etc. , Rifle Contests,

appropriation for furnishing.. deficiency appropriation for . National University, D. C., taxes refunded ..

258, 1175 32
869

National Zoological Park, D. C. (see Zoological Park, D. C. , National).

Nations, Obediah B.,

pension increased..

2338

Natt och Dag, Axel A. M. , pension.creased ..

.... 1516

Nattinger, Matilda E. (widow ),

pension increased ..

1845

Naturalization (see Citizenship).

Naturalization, etc. , Proceedings, "

appropriation for assistant attorneys em-

ployed in..

1361

Naturalization of Aliens,

courts conferred with jurisdiction for............... 596

to residents.of district only

596

forms, numbering, etc.....

596

proceedings, declaration of intention ; con-

tents ..

596

petition for certificate, after two years.

597

requirements; not an anarchist nor polyg-

amist..

597

renunciation of all other allegiance

597

intention to reside permanently in

United States, etc ....

597

affidavits of two witnesses as to character,

etc......

597

certificate of arrival and intention ..

597

declaration in open court to support the

Constitution and renouncing all

other allegiance .....

597

evidence of residence, character, etc. , re-

quired ......

598

renunciation of hereditary title, etc.

598

in case of death after declaration , wife and

minor may be naturalized without

declaration ....

598

public notice of application , and date of

hearing...

598

filing and docketing of petition , time of ac-

tion ...

598

restriction as to election day.

598

petition to change name..

598

anarchists and polygamists not to be

naturalized ..

598

speaking English a necessary qualification. 599

exceptions; physical incapacity.

599

prior declarations ...

599

homestead entrymen..

599

hearings in open court ; evidence of resi-

dence...

599

examination , etc. , in opposition .

599

record, etc., of declarations of intention and

issue of citizenship certificate...

599

copies to Bureau; penalty for failure......... 599

accountability for blank certificates..

600

fees and deposits; accounting..

600

preservation in court records of declarations

and petitions; identification of cer-

tificates...

601

proceedings to cancel certificates illegally

obtained ...

601

permanent residence abroad ..

601

notification of decree; cancellation of

certificate, etc ...

601

applicable to all certificates.

601

INDEX.

3489

Naturalization of Aliens-Continued.

Page.

punishment for issuing, etc. , false certifi-

cates ..

602

Naval Academy, Superintendent of, duties of, in cases of hazing .....
Naval Apprentices,

Page. 104

engraving, printing, selling, etc. , counterfeits ..
illegally, etc., issuing certificates . unlawful possession of blank certificates . willfully neglecting to render accounts of
moneys received , etc ..
receiving additional fees, etc.. issuing false acknowledgments ..

602 602 602
602 602 · 603

fraudulently obtaining certificates ; ju-

risdiction of offense...

603

aiding, etc., to fraudulently secure cer-

tificates ..

603

time limit of prosecutions..

603

prosecution of prior offenses.

603

laws repealed....

603

forms; declaration of intention.

603

petition for naturalization .

604

affidavit of witnesses..

605

certificate; stub...

605

regulations; admission of certified copies.. 606

appropriation for expenses ; authority for

expenditures .

606

naturalization of persons owing allegiance,

but not citizens .

606

effect in ninety days; provisions in imme-

diate effect ...

607

validation of certain defective certificates . 630

appropriation for naval training stations

for..

... 556, 1178

Naval Auxiliaries,

appropriation for pay, etc. , of civilian offi-

cers and crews of......

1178

Naval Establishment,

construction authorized of one first-class

battle ship; conditions; cost .

582

compensation for plans..

582

full details to be reported to Congress

before issuing proposals, etc..

582

three torpedo-boat destroyers; cost

582

limit of cost increased

1203

contracts; differential in favor of Pacific

coast bids....

582

domestic materials, etc .; limit to one

contractor...

582

may be built at navy-yard , if bidders

combine..

583

limit of cost increased of battle ship "Con-

necticut ".

583

training ships and colliers.

583

construction authorized of one first-class

battle ship; cost...

1203

plans and specifications adopted .

1203

two torpedo-boat destroyers; cost ; limit

increased ....

1203

records, etc. , Cook County, Ill . , criminal

contracts to lowest best responsible bidder . 1203

court, status declared..

631

domestic materials, etc.; limit to one

Naus, Samuel,

pension increased..

2471

Nautical Almanac and American Ephemeris,

appropriation for preparing ..

425, 971

Nautical Almanac Office,

appropriation for assistants, etc. for preparing Nautical Almanac .

425, 971 425, 971

Naval Academy,

appropriation for construction of buildings ,

etc..

566, 1189

for engineering experimental station . 575 , 1197

for pay of professors, etc ..

576, 1198

for band....

577, 1199

admissions from foreign countries lim-

ited ..

577

for watchmen, mechanics, etc.

577, 1199

for steam engineering employees .. 577, 1199

for special training, midshipmen

577, 1199

for repairs and improvements.

577, 1199

for heating and lighting ..

577, 1199

for contingent..

578, 1199

for expences, Board of Visitors.

578, 1200

contractor...

1204

may be built at navy-yards.

1204

subsurface or submarine torpedo boats

authorized; tests.

583

tests extended .

1204

limit of cost increased ; requirements .... 1204

appropriation for construction and ma-

chinery .

583, 1204

for armor and armament ; contracts ... 583, 1204

for equipment ....

1204

deficiency appropriation for equipment of

new vessels ..

885

Naval Home, Philadelphia, Pa.,

appropriation for; employment of bene-

ficiaries..

557, 1179

Naval Intelligence Office, appropriation for clerks, etc..

423, 969

Naval Magazine, New England Coast,
appropriation for construction of buildings . 568, 1190

Naval Militia,

appropriation for arming and equipping ... 558, 1181

acceptance of gift of sailboat for midshipmen..
cadets dismissed from, ineligible for Revenue-Cutter Service ..
dismissal of midshipmen for cause . repeal of laws in conflict.. courts-martial for hazing. execution of sentence; review. offense of hazing defined.. officers, etc., to report violations of rules .
action on present offenses.... hearings on hazing at, ordered printed . notification of vacancies June 1st of the
year before graduation... nomination and appointment appointment where nomination can not
be filled as provided .. at large and from the District ..

Naval Observatory, 916 appropriation for assistants, etc ......

425, 971

for computations, books, apparatus, etc 425, 971

452

for contingent expenses, etc ..

425, 971

104

for house for alt-azimuth instrument, etc. 971

104

for grounds, etc.

568, 1191

104 deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

104

penses...

1384

105.Naval Prison , Portsmouth, N. H.,

105 deficiency appropriation for administration

105

building.

652

2831 Naval Proving Ground, Indian Head, Md.,

appropriation for public works...

567, 1190

578 Naval Records ofthe Rebellion,

578 appropriation for clerks, etc. , office of.... 423 , 968

for continuing publication .....

423, 969

578 Naval Supplies,

578 . certified checks may be accepted as guar-

professors of mathematics, appointment 'of

two additional ..

579

anty on bids and contracts for;

amount.

841

3490

INDEX .

Naval Training Stations, appropriation for California.. for Rhode Island ..
for Great Lakes ..

Page. 556, 1178 556, 1178 556, 1178

Naval War College, appropriation for maintenance.. for book stacks, etc ..

557, 1179 567

deficiency appropriation for buildings ; bal-

ances made available .

650, 1385

Navigable Waters,

punishment for shanghaiing extended to

vessels in

1233

regulations for bridges over...

84

Navigation,

vessel for removing derelicts, etc. , author-

ized ..

190

appropriation for.

703, 1309

Navigation Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Commissioner , clerks ,

etc.

445, 990

for rent..

446, 991

Navigation, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, clerks, etc.

445, 990

directed to change the name of certain sail-

ing vessels..

626

to consolidate enrollment and license of

domestic vessels in one document... 136

to document foreign-built dredges at work

at Galveston, Tex . , " Holm ".

.204

" Leviathan

204

" Nereus ".

204

" Sea Lion ".

204

"Triton ".

204

to issue American register to Homeward

Bound" bark..

808

"Marie" steamer..

881

"Mariechen " German bark.

1251

" Success" steamer..

881

"Waturus , " steam yacht..

799

Navigation Laws, administration of, in force in Philippines.. 155

Navy (see also Naval Establishment),

appropriation for pay..

553, 1176

refund of enlistment bounty in certain

cases .:

553, 1176

for pay, miscellaneous .

553, 1176

reimbursement for losses San Francisco

fire...

554

officers who served in civil war to be

advanced one grade on retirement ;

exception....

554

diminished pay for shore duty repealed . 554

chaplains' rank and pay rated ..

554

civil engineers, professors of mathe-

matics, and assistant civil engineers'

allowances .

555

for contingent ..

555, 1177

civilians at naval stations in island

possessions ..

555, 1177

salaryof solicitor, Office of Judge-Advo-

cate-General .

555

for Bureau of Navigation ; transportation ,

etc ....

555, 1177

mileage allowance to enlisted men on

discharge ..

555

gunnery exercises ; outfits .

556, 1178

maintenance of colliers.

556

maintenance of naval auxiliaries.

1178

training stations .: War College.. Naval Home..

556, 1178 557, 1179 557, 1179

Navy- Continued. appropriation for Bureau of Ordnance .. naval gun factory..
modernizing batteries, etc .. torpedo station; factory . naval militia.. for Bureau of Equipment..

Page.
558, 1179 558, 1180
1180 558, 1180 558, 1181 559, 1181

wireless telegraph stations, Pacific

coast ....

560

for Bureau of Yards and Docks..

561, 1183

chief to be selected from civil engi-

neers ..

564

for public works, Bureau of Yards and

Docks ..

564, 1186

Naval Academy.

566, 1189

Guam, buildings for lepers .

1189

Bureau of Navigation...

567, 1189

Bureau of Ordnance..

567, 1189

Naval Observatory..

568, 1191

Bureau of Medicine and Surgery... 568, 1191

Marine Corps ....

569, 1191

for Bureau of Medicine and Surgery .. 569, 1191

for Bureau of Supplies and Accounts . 570, 1192

navy ration amended..

570, 1193

freight, Department and bureaus 571, 1193

for Bureau of Construction and Repair 573, 1195

construction plants ....

573, 1195

for Bureau of Steam Engineering.. 575, 1197

machinery plants .....

575, 1197

engineering experimental station .. 575, 1197

for Naval Academy..

576, 1198

admissions from foreign countries lim-

ited ..

577

notification of vacancies..

578

appointment of additional professors of

mathematics ...

579

all naval records of the Revolution to

be transferred to Secretary of the

Navy.... for Marine Corps..

579 579, 1200

for increase of naval establishment ... 582, 1203

for construction and machinery, new ves-

sels .....

583, 1204

for armor and armament.

583, 1204

for equipment ......

1204

limit on expenditures of Depart-

ment .

583, 1204

for pensions...

133, 1406

for Bureau of Steam Engineering, Mare

-Island , Cal. , Navy-Yard..

168

deficiency appropriation for distributing medals , service in West Indies, war

with Spain .

35

for pay, miscellaneous .

35 ,

46,647, 649, 666, 668, 1384, 1386, 1402

for Bureau of Equipment..........

35,

648, 651 , 666, 1385, 1402

for Bureau of Medicine and Surgery.

36,

648, 652, 1386, 1402

for Marine Corps ..

36 ,

46,647, 649, 666, 668 , 1385 , 1387, 1402, 1405

for Bureau of Supplies and Accounts ..

36,

47, 648, 652, 666, 1386, 1387, 1402, 1405

for pensions

39, 47, 1389

for pay.

46, 647, 666, 668, 1384, 1402, 1405

for Bureau of Navigation...

46,

647, 650, 666, 1385, 1386, 1402

for Bureau of Ordnance...

47 ,

647, 650, 666, 1385, 1387 , 1402, 1405

for Bureau of Construction and Repair.. 47 ,

648, 652, 666, 1386, 1402, 1405

for Bureau of Steam Engineering

47,

1

649, 652, 1386, 1402

INDEX .

3491

Navy-Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for indmenity for

lost property ...... 47, 666, 669, 1402, 1405

for indemnity for lost clothing ..

47

for destroyed clothing, etc..

47 ,

666, 669, 1402, 1405

for bounty, destroying enemy's vessels .. 47 ; 666, 1402, 1405

for enlistment bounties ...... 47, 666, 669, 1402

for bringing home remains of officers , etc. ,

dying abroad ..

132

for reimbursing general account of ad-

vances .

646, 1384

for emergency fund . for contingent...

646, 1384 647, 1384

for Bureau of Yards and Docks .

648,

651, 1385, 1387

for naval prison, Portsmouth , N. H ..

652

for Virginius Dabney..

652

for George T. Emmons ..

653

for equipment of new vessels

885

for expenses of officers on traveling re-

cruiting parties ....

1383

for repairs, etc. , navy-yards.

1386

appointment authorized of Reuben A.

Campbell as assistant surgeon .

632

Kenneth G. Castleman as lieutenant.

634

Harold D. Childs as ensign, retired .... 1417

Francis J. Cleary as ensign..

633

Leonard Martin Cox as civil engineer . 1407

Harry McL. P. Huse as commander...

892

Julian Taylor Miller as assistant surgeon. 892

Commander James H. Oliver, retired , on

active list ..

632

George R. Plummer as assistant surgeon. 1408

age limit waived for admitting to Pay

Corps, Frank Holway Atkinson ..

615

Walter Delafield Ballard .

2657

W. W. Peirce.....

2467

badges of Army and Navy Union may be

worn on public occasions....

1423

delegate to Geneva Conference to be taken

from ...

118

holders of medals of honor to have surren-

dered ones returned , etc.

1422

loan of equipment to certain military

schools, increased to one cutter for

every 25 cadets ; conditions ...................

620

vessel, etc., to Philippine Government

for nautical schools ...

817

detail of keepers ; additional numbers;

preferences ..

817

officers advanced in rank for heroism, etc.,

to be carried as additional numbers

in grade when promoted....

296

payment of classified employees at yards,

etc. , from lump appropriations ...

1383

punishment of midshipmen for hazing ;

repeal of conflicting laws ....

104

readjustment of Porto Rico reservation at

San Juan....

1410

retired enlisted men , allowances and credit

for all other service ..

457, 1217.

tuberculosis patients, may be treated at

Fort Bayard, N. Mex. , hospital .

1172

use of stores authorized , Jamaica earth-

quake...

850

vessels and supplies for relief of earthquake

sufferers authorized .

827

vessels to assist enforcing law to prevent

illegal landing, etc. , of sponges..

314

Navy Department,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant ,

clerks, etc ...

427,968

Navy Department-Continued .

Page .

appropriation for care of rented building. 423, 968

for clerks, etc. , library..

423, 968

office of Naval Records of the Rebel-

lion ..

423, 986

continuing publication.. Judge-Advocate-General's Office Bureau of Navigation

423, 969 423, 969 423, 969

Naval Intelligence Office.. Bureau of Equipment..

423, 969 423, 969

for Hydrographic Office.. for Naval Observatory.

424, 969 425, 971 .

for assistants, etc. , Nautical Almanac

Office....

425, 971

for clerks, etc. , Bureau of Steam Engi-

neering..

426, 971

Bureau of Construction and Repair .. 426, 972

Bureau of Ordnance ...

426, 972

Bureau of Supplies and Accounts . 426, 972 Bureau ofMedicine and Surgery 426, 972

Bureau of Yards and Docks..

427, 972

for books and periodicals... for contingent expenses

427, 973 427, 973

additional , formerly from naval service ;

restriction ...

427

for rent, maintenance, etc. , Mills Build-

ing...

427, 973

for the naval service .

553, 1176

no part of appropriation to be used for

Department unless specifically au-

thorized ..

583, 1204

for freight .

571, 1193

for printing and binding.

760, 1367

for paying certain navy claims .

1290

deficiency appropriation for distributing

medals, service in West Indies, war

with Spain .

35

for Navy .

35,

46, 646, 666, 668, 885, 1384, 1402, 1405

for freight ..

36

for Court of Claims judgments under..

44 ,

664, 1400

for Judge-Advocate-General's Office .... 646

for emergency fund ..

646, 1384

for judgments of United States courts,

under .

663, 1399

for Hydrographic Office .

668

for Secretary..

1383

for Lawrence G. Boggs .

1383

for contingent expenses .

1384

for Naval Observatory .

1384

naval records of the Revolution to be trans-

ferred to ..

579

Navy, Mary (widow),

pension increased..

2204

Navy- Yards,

appropriation for repairs and preservation .. 566, 1189

deficiency appropriation for repairs and

preservation .

1386

light-house tenders may be built in ..

858

Nay, John,

pension increased

2156

Nay taw me ge zhick, Charlotte, patent issued to , on L'Anse Reservation to

be canceled, and issued to Charles

Beneche ....

349

Neafus, David B.,

pension increased ..

1923

Neah Bay, Wash.,

life-saving station authorized near.

123

Neal, Stephen W.,

pension increased ...

1981

3492

INDEX.

Neal, William M., pension increased.

Page. Nesbitt, Annie R. E. (widow), 2580 pension increased...

Page.

N

1868

Near, William H. ,

Netherlands,

pension increased ..

1903 deficiency appropriation for International

Nebraska,

Peace Conference at The Hague ..... 118

appropriation for Indian Service in ..... 355, 1039 Netherlands and Luxemburg,

entries in area of arid lands before June 28,

appropriation for minister to..

1904, confirmed ...

1224

for secretary of legation....

credit for military service allowed... 1224 Netser, James E.,

286, 916 287, 917

sale of isolated tracts ; limit ...

1224 pension increased .

2478

North Platte Forest Reserve, established .. 3193 Nettleton, Harvey S.,

resurvey of certain townships in, author-

pension increased .

2502

ized ...

518 Neumann, John,

Nebraska City, Nebr. ,

pension increased .

2390

acquiring land for, and extending public

Neuse River, N. C.,.

building at, authorized ...

775 appropriation for improvement of........ 1083

appropriation for..

790 Neutrality,

Nebraska Judicial District, additional district judge to be appointed .. 997

proclamation prohibiting export of arms,

etc., to Santo Domingo ...

3183

division of business with present judge. 998 Neutrality Act,

regular terms of court ; special .. eight divisions established ; composition .. clerks and deputies .....

998 appropriation for expenses under....... 290, 919

998 Neutze, Margaret,

999 payment to..

2413

jurisdiction in civil actions ..

999 Nevada,

in criminal cases...

999 appropriation for Indian Service in .... 358, 1040

service of petit jurors ..

999

for incidental expenses, Indian Service

grand juries at Omaha and Lincoln only.. 999

in.......

358, 1040

in other divisions .

1000

for surveyor-general, clerks , etc.

435, 981

prosecutions for prior offenses .

1000 deficiency appropriation for surveyor-gen-

marshal's salary increased ..

1000

eral .

37

deficiency appropriation for additional dis-

Charleston Forest Reserve , established

3252

trict judge.. Neches River, Tex.,

1390 Independence Forest Reserve, estab-

lished ...

3251

appropriation for improvement of..

739

for improvement of channel to Taylors

Ruby Mountains Forest Reserve, estab-

lished ..

3198

Bayou, use for Port Arthur Ship

Canal, etc

1090

Tahoe Forest Reserve , Cal. , and , boundaries

established

3163

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1117

area enlarged and Yuba Forest Reserve

Neece, George W.,

added ...

3232

pension increased ...

1778 Toiyabe Forest Reserve, established .

3278

Needham, Edward E.,

Walker River Indian Reservation, ceded

pension increased..

1632

lands opened to settlement ...

3237

Neely, Sarah (widow), pension increased..

Nevada, Mo.,

2569 appropriation for public building......

1301

Neff, Millie, Indian Allottee,

limit of cost increased, public building.. 773

fee-simple title to ...

356 Neversink River, N. Y.,

Neglected Children, D. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1116

jurisdiction of juvenile court over..

74 Nevins, Augustus A.,·

Negro Development and Exposition Company,

pension increased .

1949

appropriation for exhibit, Jamestown Ex-

New Bedford, Mass.,

position....

767 appropriation for improvement of harbor;

Neil, William R. ,

contracts .....

1074

pension increased ..

2440 seagoing tug for Revenue-Cutter Service

Neill, Robert,

authorized for duty at, etc.

1010

reimbursement to ...

2659

appropriation for ...

1309

Neilson, Caroline (widow),

New Britain, Conn.,

pension increased...... Neiswender, Eliza J. , Indian Allottee,

1781 acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

778

fee-simple title to ..

365

appropriation for..

792, 1301

Nelson, Ann R. (widow), pension increased ...
Nelson, George, payment to..
Nelson, John C. , pension increased ..

New Cordell, Okla., 1905 removal of Washita County seat to, ratified ., 50

2662 New England Coast, appropriation for naval magazine ....

568, 1190

2781 New Hampshire Avenue, D. C.,

Nelson , Thor, pension increased..

proceedings to condemn land for extending,

to District line ....

1004

2646

appropriation for.........

1004

Neponset River, Mass. ,

New Haven, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1076

tion ....

1074

for improvement of breakwater; con-

"Nereus," Foreign- Built Dredge,

tracts ..

1076

to be documented as vessel of United

preliminary examination of harbor to be

States...

204

made ...

1112

INDEX .

3493

New Jersey,
agreement with Delaware as to jurisdiction over part of Delaware River, ratified ..
rights of United States not impaired .. improvement of seacoast channels, etc. , by
State authorized ; conditions ..
New Jersey Judicial District, deficiency appropriation for additional district judge..
New London, Conn.,
appropriation for public works, marine barracks.....
acquiring site for public building at, authorized ..
appropriation for. light and fog-signal station , Southwest
Ledge entrance to .. preliminary examination of harbor to be
made .....

Page.
861 861 800
41
569 782 794 322 1112

New Mexico (see also Arizona, State of) ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Apaches,

etc. , in Arizona and ..

332, 1021

for Indian service in...

358, 1040

for incidental expenses, Indian in.....
for completing Zuni dam, etc. ' for salaries, government in.. for contingent expenses . for legislative expenses..
for surveyor-general, clerks, etc. deficiency appropriation for Zuni
school .

service 359, 1041 1041
416, 963 416, 963 416, 963 435, 981
Indian 38

88858885

for support, etc. , of Apaches, etc. , in Ari-

zona and...

47

for surveyor-general's office..

654

for incidentals, Indian service ..

for legislative expenses, additional em-

ployees, etc...

885

acts of legislature authorizing bond issues,

ratified ..

1222

inhabitants of Territories of Arizona and,

may form State of Arizona ..

278

delegates to convention to form consti-

tution for Arizona....

278

vote on question of united statehood ..

278

if majority in Arizona and , favor union,

convention to be called ..

278

assumption of debts, etc. , by State of Arizona ....
Big Burros Forest Reserve, established . El Morro National Monument, set aside .. Gallinas Forest Reserve, established ... Gila Forest Reserve , name of Gila River
Forest Reserve changed to , and area extended..
Gila River Forest Reserve , established . name changed and area extended .
Jemez Forest Reserve , established
enlarged juries in Federal cases ; selection, etc .. leasing of university, etc. , lands in ..
larger areas authorized .... Lincoln Forest Reserve, area modified
enlarged Magdalena Forest Reserve, established . Manzano Forest Reserve , established Mount Taylor Forest Reserve, established . Peloncillo Forest Reserve, established .. Portales Forest Reserve , established . San Mateo Forest Reserve, established . Taos County, may refund its indebtedness . Taos Forest Reserve, established .....

280 3274 3264 3243
3123 3126 3023 3182 3261 552 460 460 3175 3216 3245 3257 3239 3248 3178 3249 934 3262

VOL XXXIV. PT 3--57

New Mexico- Continued .

Page.

timber on Jicarilla Indian Reservation to

be sold for benefit of Indians.

91

New Orleans andGreat Northern Railroad Com-

pany,

may bridge Pearl River, at Columbia,

Miss ..

933

New Orleans, Battle of,

appropriation for monument to commem-

orate ...

1411

New Orleans, La.,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's

office...

412, 958

for mint at

414, 961

for public works, naval station . marine barracks ..

566, 1188 569

for public building, post-office, and

court-house; contracts

1301

for marine hospital ..

1307

for construction, etc. , of immigrant sta-

tion building, etc...

1409

boarding vessel for Revenue- Cutter Serv-

ice authorized for duty at, etc ....

1010

appropriation for.

1307

commissioner of immigration authorized

for..

908

construction of new public building au-

thorized at; cost, etc ..

786

appropriation for.

796

minor coins to be coined at mint ; distribu-

tion ...

132

New River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of water-

way between Beaufort and ..........

1083

between Swansboro and ....

1083

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1116

New Ulm, Minn.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for .

793, 1301

New York, appropriation for Indian service in...... 359, 1041

deficiency appropriation for claim of, war

of 1812 .

29

New York Agency,

appropriation for Indian agent, etc. , at . 359, 1041

New York and New Jersey Transportation

Company,

appropriation for damages.

1291

New York Bay (see New York Harbor) . " New York," Cruiser,

appropriation for new guns and armor............... 558 New York Harbor, N. Y. ,

appropriation for enforcing anchorage

regulations...

702, 1309

for Ambrose Channel light-houses,

buoys, etc...

710, 1317

forimprovement of; maintenance .

1077

for improvement of Ambrose channnel;

contracts suction dredges . restriction on navigation .

736, 1077, 1344 1077 1077

forimprovement of Coney Island channel 1077

for preventing injurious deposits in .. 745, 1351

additional lights directed for Ambrose

Channel....

322

gas buoys for Ambrose, Gedney, and main

ship channels, authorized...

322·

modification of improvement of Bay Ridge

and Red Hook channels ..

1077

survey of Coney Island channel directed .. 538

New York, N. Y.,
appropriation for dispatch agent.. for warehouse , Indian supplies ..

289, 919 329, 1018

3494

INDEX.

New York, N. Y. -Continued .

Page.

appropriation for assistant treasurer's

office. for public works, navy-yard ,

412, 959 564, 1187

for public building, custom-house .

698

rent, custom-house..

699

furnishing.... for post-office, special repairs.. for marine hospital, fences, etc.

707, 1314 698
701

for commencement of post-office, on

Pennsylvania Railroad site ; plans,

etc ..

1210

for navy-yard; damages to dry dock

tower..

1293

deficiency appropriation for per diem, cus-

toms inspectors...

636

for rent, old custom-house..

638

change of location of bridges over Hudson

River at, on approval of Secretary of

War.

1119

commission to investigate postal situation . 786

appropriation for expenses..

786

continued ..

1237

enlargement of assay office, authorized ..

774

appropriation for ..

790, 1301

limit of cost increased ; custom -house..

773

appropriation for...

789

New York, N. Y. , Customs District,

appraiser's salary increased...

1373

assistant appraisers increased to twelve ... 874

special deputy and deputy appraisers au-

thorized; duties, etc ...

874

New York Southern Judicial District,

additional judge authorized..

202

deficiency appropriation for..

657

allowances to district attorneyand assistant,

absent on official business ...

1360

clerks and messengers, district attorney's

office, to be paid from regular appro-

priations...

754

Newark Bay, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of channel ;

contracts ....

1079

Newark, Ohio,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

780

appropriation for.........

793, 1301

Newbern, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of water-

way between Beaufort and .

1083

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ....

774

appropriation for .

790

terms of court..

1224

Newberry, Spencer B. , et al. ,

may dam Rock River near Grand Detour,

III..

14

Newbury, Edward S. E. ,

pension increased ..

2569

Newbury, Joseph B. , pension increased ...
Newcastle, England,
classification and salary of consul ... appropriation for clerk hire.. Newcastle, New South Wales, classification and salary of consul....

1976
100 294, 924
100

Newcastle, Pa.,

appropriation for public building.....

698

Newcomb, Simon,

may accept decoration of " Pour le Mérite,

für Wissenschaften und Kunste ". 1713

Newell Jesse C.,

pension increased ...........

2718

Newfoundland, residents of, not liable for immigration tax . 898

Newkirk, John N.,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for postal losses... 657

Newlin, Isabel (widow),

pension increased..

2088

Newman, John L.,

pension increased .

2629

Newman, Samuel P.,

pension increased .

1808

Newman, William S.,

pension increased..

1994

Newnan, Ga. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

782

appropriation for....

794

Newport, Cal.,

preliminary examination to be made of har-

bor..

1112

Newport, R. I., appropriation for naval torpedo station . for public works, torpedo station.. naval hospital .. for Government landing.
for improvement of harbor; contracts

558, 1180 568 568 1188 1075

deficiency appropriation for naval torpedo

station ....

1385

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

775

appropriation for.....

790

Newspaper Wrappers, Stamped,

appropriation for manufacture; distribu-

tion ....

475, 1214

deficiency appropriation for manufac-

ture...

833, 1392

Newspapers,

preserving files of, by Departments, re-

pealed...

449

Newton, George,

pension increased..

2751

Newton, Kans.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for..

792, 1301

Newtown Creek, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of .... 1078, 1344 Nez Perce Indians, Idaho,

leases permitted by competent ..

334

Nez Perce Indians, Joseph's Band,

appropriation for support, etc., of ..... 377, 1050

Nez Perces County, Idaho,

grant of lands to school district No. 57 .... 549

Niagara Falls,

provisions for preservation of, etc.

626

report, etc. , for preserving, to be made by

International Waterways Commis-

sion ...

824

Niagara Falls, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building ...... 699, 1301

Niagara Falls, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul .......

100

Niagara River,

appropriation for improvement of ..

1078

diversion of water from, or tributaries pro-

hibited ..

626

exceptions ; amount to be fixed

626

permits to be issued ; maximum amounts 626

revokable, for additional amounts;

limitation..

627

discretion, etc.,.of Secretary of War .. 627

penalty for unlawful diversion, etc.

627

negotiations with Great Britain requested

to regulate and control waters of .

628

act limited to three years ; revocation of all

permits....

628

appropriation for expenses..

628

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1115

INDEX.

3495

Niagara River-Continued.

Page. | Nobinger, Joseph,

range lights, Strawberry Island Cut, au-

pension increased...

thorized ..

323 Noble, Aaron,

Page. 1994

appropriation for..

711 pension increased.

1476

tunnel under, for Buffalo water supply, au-

Noble, James H.,

thorized ...

532 pension increased.

1849

Niblock, John H. ,

Noble, James M.,

pension increased ..

2434 pension increased .

1623,

Nicaragua and Costa Rica,

Noble, Sallie (widow),

appropriation for minister to

916 pension increased ..

2677

for secretary of legation....

917 Noblet, Peter,

Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Salvador,

pension increased..

2181

appropriation for minister to . for secretary of legation...

286 Nogales, Mexico, 287 classification and salary of consul......................... 100

Nice, France,

Noggle, Charles L.,

classification and salary of consul .. ·

100 pension increased ..

1650

Nichols, Alfred,

Nolan, Martin,

pension increased...

2562 pension....

1711

Nichols, Amelia (widow), pension increased ..
Nichols, Andrew H., pension increased.
Nichols, Frank N., pension increased .

1760 }
1863
2150

Nolan, W. Va. ,

bridge authorized across Tug Fork of Big

Sandy River at..

626

Noland, John A.,

deficiency appropriation for contested

election expenses...

1396

Nichols, Joseph, pension increased ..
Nichols,, Lucy Florette (widow),
pension.. Nichols, Melville A. ,
pension increased .
Nichols, Orrin D. , pension increased ..

Nome, Alaska,

1579 appropriation for jail ; court-house repairs,

etc.

751

2227

for court-house and jail; site .

1358

marine hospital building to be used for jail. 751 2338 sale of Government coal to citizens of, per-

mitted .....

59

2025 Nome Improvement Company,

Nichols, William A. , pension increased ..

time extended for completing jetties, etc. ,

2580

for Snake River, Alaska...

1109

Nichols, William, Indian Allottee,

Nome Land District, Alasku,

alienation restrictions removed ..
Nicholson, Josiah, pension increased ..
Niebels, Jacob, pension increased..
Niles, Charles H., pension increased..
Niles, Maria (widow),
pension.... Niles, Mich.,
acquiring site and erecting public building at, authorized ..

346 1610 2415 1834 2236
779

created; court officers to perform duties... 1232

fees; surveys, etc ..

1232

Nomini Creek, Va. , appropriation for improvement of ....... 1082

Norfolk and Portsmouth Traction Company,

granted right of way through Willoughby

Spit Military Reservation, Va.; con-

ditions...

1249

Norfolk and Western Railway Company,

may bridge Potomac River at Shepherds-

town, W. Va..

878

appropriation for...

793, 1301

Tug Fork of Big Sandy River between

Nineteenth Street NW. , D. C., deficiency appropriation for extending . 641, 1377

Kentucky, Virginia, and West Vir-

ginia..

891

Ninth Judicial Circuit,

Norfolk, Nebr.,

appeals, etc., from United States court for

terms of court at..

998

China to circuit court of appeals .... Arizona judicial districts attached to .. Ninth Light- House District,

815 Norfolk, Va., 293 appropriation for public works, navy-yard ;

dry dock..

564, 1187

relief vessel for eleventh and, to be

equipped with motor power..

996

Ninth Street Christian Church, D. C. ,

taxes refunded ..

869

Niobrara River, Nebr., dam authorized across, at Fort Niobrara .. 297

Niuchuang, China, classification and salary of consul -general . 99

naval magazine. naval hospital .. marine barracks, navy-yard . for launch, customs service

567, 1190 568
569, 1191 703

for improvement ofharborand approaches 1082 from Hampton Roads; contracts ..... 1082

for improvement of water route to Albe-

marle Sound, N. C. , from ..

1083

Nix, John, pension increased .

for improvement of waterway to North

2617

Carolina sounds ..

1083

Nixon, Eliza L. (widow), pension increased ..
Noah, Esther M. (widow), pension....
Noah, Morton M., pension increased .

2000 Normal Schools , Ariz.,

indemnity grant of lands to ...................

283

2007 Normal Schools, Okla. ,

lands reserved for; disposition.

273

1458 indemnity grant of lands to ..

275

Nobel Peace Prize,

North Adams, Mass.,

awarded to President Roosevelt, to be re-

ceived by Industrial Peace Founda-

tion ...

1242

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .......

779

appropriation for..

793, 1302

3496

INDEX.

North Carolina,

Page.

appropriation for payment to Governor, `

monument at Moores Creek ..

259

for Indian Service in ...

359, 1041

for revenue-cutter for Albemarle and Pamlico sounds and Neuse River... 702

for improvement of waterway from Nor-

folk, Va., to sounds of

1083

delivery of certain early archives to, au-

thorized ...

821

North Carolina Eastern Judicial District,

term of court, Elizabeth City .

1224

Newbern..

1224

Raleigh...

1224

Washington.

1224

Wilmington..

1224

North Charleroi, Pa.,

time extended for bridging Monongahela

River between Rostraver and ..

884

North Coast Railroad Company,

may bridge Columbia River between Ben-

ton and Franklin counties, Wash... 866

Wallawalla and Benton counties .

866

North East River, N. C., appropriation for improvement of....... 1083
North Dakota,

appropriation for Indian Service in.... 360, 1041

for incidental expenses, Indian Service

in ..

360, 1042

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc

435, 981

bridge authorized across Red River in

Minnesota and ..

820

certain entries, etc. , on lands of ceded Fort

Berthold Indian Reservation, vali-

dated .

894

homestead laws extended to abandoned

Fort Rice Military Reservation .

808

Homesteaders allowed leave of absence.. 1419

time to prove residence, etc., in, ex-

tended ...

1421

lands exchanged with Milton Lowrie and

another..

1241

granted for State Historical Society ... 1241

may select school lands in lieu of erroneous

entries on Fort Rice and , Fort Abra-

ham Lincoln abandoned reserva-

tions ..

1218

Williston land district created .

148

North Dakota Judicial District,

divided in five divisions ..

609

counties constituting; courts .

609

terms of district court .

609

jurisdiction of divisions .

609

terms of circuit court ..

610

appointment and duties of deputy clerks .. 610

North Dakota State Historical Society,

lands exchanged and granted to North Da-

kota for use of...

1241

North Edisto River, S. C., preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1117

North, Granville P. ,

pension increased .

2265

North, Lafayette,

pension increased .

2019

North Mississippi Traction Company, may construct dams, etc. , across Bear River, Miss...
North Platte Forest Reserve, Nebr., proclamation establishing .
North Platte, Nebr., terms of court at ..
North River (see Hudson River, N. Y.) .

130 3193
998

North Tonawanda, N. Y., acquiring site for public building at, authorized ..
appropriation for. North Yakima, Wash. ,

8889892

Page.
783 795

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for.

796

Northampton and Halifax Bridge Company,

may bridge Roanoke River at Weldon,

N. C ...

197

Northern and Northwestern Lakes,

appropriation for survey of..

744, 1350

Northern Cheyenne and Arapaho Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with. 354, 1035

for purchase of cattle for.

354

for irrigation system , Tongue River Res-

ervation ..

1035

Northern Indians, Cal. ,

appropriation for support, etc., of...... 333, 1022

Northern Pacific Railroad Company,

extension of relief to contesting settlers on

grant to..

197

Northrop, Thomas J.,

pension increased .

2427

Norton, Eliza P. (widow),

pension increased ..

2141

Norton, Fannie P. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1854

Norton, Rianzo M.,

pension increased .

2636

Nortrip, William H.,

pension increased ..

1716

Nortrup, Detrick,

pension increased .

1477

Norway,

appropriation for minister to

287, 917

for secretary of legation....

287, 917

extradition treaty with, as to accessories .. 2865

proclamation extending copyright benefits

to citizens of

3111

Norwich, Conn.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing..

30

Norwood, Eliza L. (widow),

pension increased.

1762

"Nostra Signora delle Gracie, " Bark,

appropriation for reimbursing owner..

1292

Notaries Public, D. C.,

acknowledgments by, in cases in which

employed, etc. , forbidden

621

may practice before Departments, etc.

622

Nottingham, England,

classification and salary of consul ..

99

appropriation for clerk hire.............

294, 924

Noulton, Levi B. ,

pension increased .

1885

Noyes, Joseph A. ,

pension increased .

1968

Noyes, Martin B.,

pension increased ..

1477

Nuevo Laredo, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul ..................

100

Nuisances, D. C.,

abatement by Commissioners on failure of

owner..

114

cost assessed as tax ..

114

criminal prosecution not affected ....

114

authority to enter upon premises to correct,

etc ..

115

punishment for preventing ..

115

service of notice to abate....

115

Nulton, George,

pension increased..

1441

INDEX.

3497

Nunan, James, pension increased...

Page. 1810

Nuremburg, Germany, classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire

99 294, 924

Nurses, Army, appropriation for .

245, 1163

Nurses, D. C.,

provisions for examination and registry of. 887

Nussbaum, Abram,

pension increased ..

2611

Nutrition Investigations,

appropriation for expenses of.......... 694, 1279

transporting apparatus to Washington . 1279

Nye and Schneider Company,

payment to.

2411

Nye, George H. , pension increased .

- 2691

Nye, Reuben,

pension increased

2790

Nynham, Catherine, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

380

Nynham, Elizabeth, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

380

Nynham, Schuyler, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ....

381

0.

Oahu Island, Hawaii,

act of legislature granting telephone fran-

chise on, ratified .....

309

Oakland, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts...

... 739, 1106, 1345

deficiency appropriation for repairs to post-

office..

639

cooperation with mayor, relief of earth-

quake sufferers...

827

Oakman, Isaac,

pension increased .

2728

Oakmont, Pa.,

bridge authorized across Allegheny River

to Hulton Ferry from ..

848

Oaths ,



authority ofinterstate commerce examiners

to administer.......

595

Oatley, Frank J. ,

pension increased .

1961

Obenshain, Leonidas,

pension increased .

2738

Ober Brothers Brewing Company,

appropriation for refund of tax..

1221

Ober, Isaac Henry,

pension increased .

1575

Obion River, Tenn.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1093

O'Brien, Dan., Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

365

O'Brien, James H.,

pension increased

2481

O'Brien, John D.,

pension increased ..

1494

O'Bryan, Charles,

pension increased ..

2140

O'Bryan, Irwin,

pension increased

1812

Observatory, Naval (see Naval Observatory) . Obsolete Cannon,

donated Athens Monument Association,

Ohio .....

1233

General Howell Post,G. A. R. ,Woodbury,.

N. J..

829

General Henry Leavenworth Monument

Committee...

839

Obsolete Cannon-Continued .

Page.

donated Grand Army Post, Junction City,

Kans .

839

Michigan for statue of Stevens T. Mason . 834

South Dakota......

1420 .

University of Idaho ..

865

Valley Forge Park Commission....

1415

Ocala, Fla. ,

construction of public building authorized

at.

776

appropriation for..

1791, 1302

enlargement of site authorized for public

building...

1236

O'Callaghan, Cornelius,

discharge granted .

2701

Occoquan Creek, Va., appropriation for improvement of............. 1082

Ocean and Lake Surveys, Navy,

appropriation for..

560, 1182

deficiency appropriation for.

651, 1385

Ocean Shore Railway Company,

granted right of way across Pigeon Point

Light- House Reservation, Cal....... 548

Ocker, Belle M. (widow)

pension...

2788

Ocmulgee River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1085

Oconee River, Ga.,

appropriation for improvement of......

1085

O'Connor, John,

pension increased .

2355

O'Connor, Minnie C. (mother),

pension..

2824

O'Connor, Musgrove E.,

pension increased.

2316

O'Connor, Thomas, Ohio Volunteers,

pension increased .

1639

O'Connor, Thomas, Wisconsin Volunteers,

pension increased .

1466

Odanah, Wis.,

town site for Indian village, La Pointe

Reservation; cemetery .

382

Odd Fellows Hall, D. C.,

sale of, authorized ; proceeds ...

614

O'Day, Patrick,

pension increased .

2257

Odear, William H.,

pension increased .

1919

Odell, James H.,

pension increased .

2342

Odenbaugh, Zelinda E. (widow),

pension increased .

2295

Odenheimer, John M.,

pension increased .

1643

Odessa, Russia, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire...

99 294, 924

Odiorne, Benjamin T.,

pension...

1864

O'Donald, Harriet (widow),

pension...

2270

Offenses (see Crimes and Misdemeanors) .

Office Buildings, D. C.,

fire-escape regulations for..

1247

Officers, Army,

appropriation for pay of line; longevity. 241, 1160

for pay of staff; longevity. for pay of retired; longevity.

243, 1161 245, 1162

pay of colonels and lieutenant-colonels

on active duty..

245

officers above colonels to serve one year

before retiring...

245

brigadier-generals with civil war serv-

ice to be major-generals when re-

tired; conditions.

1163

3498

INDEX.

Officers, Army-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for commutation of quart-

ers .

245, 1163

for mileage; allowance ..

246, 1163

computation of distance..

246

determination of travel without troops. 246

transportation requests ; deductions ... 246

over land-grant, etc. , roads...

246

allowance if station changed while on

leave ....

247

sea travel expenses under orders .

247

land rates for Philippines, etc ..

247

for 10 per cent increase, service beyond

the United States.

247, 1164

computation of service..

247

Official Reporters,

Page.

appropriation for House of Representa

tives...

396, 942

for Senate..

392, 938

deficiency appropriation for House of Rep-

resentatives .

662, 1398

for Senate....

661, 1396

Officials, Government,

punishment for extortion, extended to per-

sons assuming authority, etc. , and

attempts ..

546

conferees instructed to insert amendment

to bill relating to misconduct of.... 2831

Offinger, Martin,

pension increased

2460

availability of present appropriations .. 247

for bringing home remains of, from

abroad .

741, 1347

deficiency appropriation for mileage; re-

striction to officers on leave.... 32, 645, 813

Ogan, John W.,

pension increased .

2673

Ogden, Utah,
appropriation for public building ...... 699, 1302 limit of cost increased , public building at. 774

for 10 per cent increase, service in Cuba . 1381 |

allowances to, detailed at Jamestown Expo-

sition....

1160

assignment of pay accounts permitted .. 241, 1159

details for Jamestown Exposition ; active

or retired ...

764

distribution of amounts due deceased,

without administration ; limit ..

750

funeral expenses....

750

effect in pension cases, of final honorable

discharge, civil war service; condi-

tions..

836

Officers, Marine Corps,

appropriation for reimbursing, losses San

Francisco fire..

554

for pay..

579, 1200

advanced for heroism, etc. , to be carried

as additional number in grade when

promoted....

296

below brigadier-general may be advanced

one grade on retirement, for civil

war service ; exception...

553

effect in pension cases, of final honorable

discharge, civil war service ; condi-

tions ...

836

Ogdensburg, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1078

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made ..

1115

Ogle, Richard M.,

pension increased

1655

Oglevie, David,

pension increased

1948

O'Hare, Mary E. (mother),

pension..

1976

Ohio River,

appropriation for lighting...
for general improvement of. Locks and Dams, 2, 3, 4, 5.. Lock No. 6 ..

713. 1320 1095 739
739, 1095

Lock and Dam No. 8 ; contracts ... 739, 1095

Lock and Dam No 11 ; contracts .. 739, 1095

Locks and Dams Nos. 13 and 18 ; con-

tracts

736, 1095, 1344

Lock and Dam No. 26 ; contracts .... 1095

Lock and Dam No. 19 ..

1096

Lock and Dam No. 37 ; contracts .. 1096, 1345

at Louisville, Ky.; removing rocks ... 1096

for repairing damages, Miami embank-

ment..

1096

Officers, Navy,

appropriation for pay..

553, 1177

for reimbursing, losses San Francisco fire . 554

bridge authorized across, Coraopolis to

Osborn, Pa ..

538

Wheeling, W. Va.

466

deficiency appropriation for expenses, on duty with traveling recruiting par-

Ohio River Ship Canal, Lake Erie and, authority granted for construction of...... 809

ties ...

1383 Ohio Southern Judicial District,

advanced for heroism, etc. , to be carried as additional numbers in grade when
promoted .... details for Jamestown Exposition ; active
or retired...
diminished pay for shore duty repealed... effect in pension cases, of final honorable

additional judge authorized ; vacancy not

to be filled....

928

296

deficiency appropriation for.

1390

terms of court at Dayton...

1294

764

554 Ohiya, Indian Allottee, allotment patent may be canceled ........ 361

discharge, civil war service ; condi- Ohl tions .... 836 pe, nEspihornaiinmcrNe.asRe.d, 1467

not above captain may be advanced one

Ohr, Martin L.,

grade on retirement, for civil war -

pension increased ...

2382

service; exception..

553 Oil,

Official Gazette, Patent Office,

investigation ordered of ownership , etc. ,

appropriation for producing, at the Gov-

in, or properties, by railroads and

ernment Printing Office..

432, 978

officials..

823

deficiency appropriation for producing.... 653 for work at Government Printing Office .. 1388

combinations, etc. , to monopolize trade

in............

823

Official Postal Guide,

car supply system ...

823

appropriation for publishing..... Official Register of the United States,

440, 985 Oil Lands, Okla., provisions for leases, etc. , school lands.... 273

editing, etc.. transferred to Director of the

Oil Lands, Osage Indian Reservation, Okla.,

Census..

219 provisions for leases, royalties, etc ....

543

INDEX

3499

Oil Monopolies,

Page.

appropriation for examinations , etc........

705

deficiency appropriation for examinations

into ...

119

Oil Pipe Lines,

considered common carriers...

584

Okanogan River, Wash. ,

appropriation for improvement of...

1109

Okinyanwastena, Michael, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed..

361

Oklahoma City, Okla.,

purchase of public building site authorized

at; use of former appropriation ..... 787

appropriation for..

796

terms of court ....

275

Oklahoma Eastern Judicial District,

created; to comprise present Indian Ter-

ritory..

275

courts; judge, attorney, marshal , and

clerk to be appointed ..

275

attached to eighth circuit..

275

deficiency appropriation for district judge . 1390

Oklahoma, State of, inhabitants of Oklahoma and Indian Ter-

ritories may form....

267

rights, etc. , of Indians not impaired.

267

constitutional convention ; "qualifications

of voters...

268

delegates, number.

268

from Oklahoma.

268

from Indian Territory .

268

from Osage Indian Reservation ..

268

apportionment of districts..

268

election laws of Oklahoma applicable . 268

procedure in Indian Territory and

Osage Reservation..

268

capital temporarily at Guthrie..

269

buildings, etc. , restricted ..

269

meeting of convention....

269

adoption of Constitution of United States .. 269

constitutional provisions required ; religious freedom; polygamy prohibited 269

liquor prohibition in present Indian

lands for 21 years .

269

penalty for violations ..

269

sales of alcohol , etc. , allowed..

270

disclaimer as to Indian and public lands . 270

equality of taxation on property of non-

residents ..

270

assumption ofTerritorial debts, etc...

270

maintenance of nonsectarian public

schools; use of English.....

270

separate white and colored schools .... 271

prohibiting restriction of suffrage for color,

etc ...

271

submission of constitution to people;

election .....

271

certification of result, etc. , to President.. 271

proclamation....

271

admission as State .

271

deposit ofconstitution , etc..

271

appropriation for election and convention

expenses ....

271

five Representatives to be elected .

271

Congressional districts .....

271

election of Representatives and State

officers when constitution is voted

on....

272

grant of sections 16 and 36 in Oklahoma for

common schools; indemnity selec- .

tions .....

272

reservations, etc., excluded ; deduction

of formergrants to Territory....

272

Oklahoma, State of--Continued. appropriation for common schools in lieu of Indian Territory lands... lands embraced in parks, etc. , excluded . rights of Government not affected; service of process , etc.... section 13 and indemnity selections reserved for universities, etc... section 33 and indemnity selections reserved for charitable and penal institutions and public buildings .. mineral and oil lands not to be sold prior to 1915; leases.. provisions for leasing..
rights of agricultural lessees in possession . common school fund from disposal of sec-
tions 16 and 36 ..

Page. 272 272 273 273
273 273 273 273 274

disposal of lands for university, public institutions, and public buildings .. 274

appraisal, etc., of improvements of lessees;

sale restrictions..

274

permanent school fund from 5 per cent of

sales of public lands in.....

274

lands in lieu ofinternal improvements , and

swamp lands grants; division ..

274

immediate selection, etc. , of....

275

two judicial districts created ; officers,

terms, etc...

275

powers conferred .

275

laws of Territory extended to.

275

cognizance of crimes and offenses ..

275

determination of pending appeals, etc. , to

Supreme Court or circuit court ofap-

peals .

276

time allowed .

276

transfer of pending cases from Territorial to

United States courts...

276

limitations on..

276

review of judgments, etc ..

276

cases to be transferred to State courts.

276

jurisdiction of State supreme, etc. , court;

dockets, etc.....

277

jurisdiction of courts of original jurisdic-

tion; dockets, etc

277

pending cases to be proceeded with , etc. ,

in proper State or Federal court .... 277

constitutional convention may provide for

election of State officers, etc...

277

provisions for Osage Reservation..

277

government to remain in abeyance until admitted into the Union and officers

elected ....

277

legislature to elect Senators .

277

certification of election of Senators and

Representatives; rights and privi-

leges..

277

operation of State government .

277

Territorial and Federal laws given force and

effect ...

277

acceptance of this act by constitutional

convention ..

278

judicial proceedings, transfer of pending civil matters to Federal courts ; re-

striction ....

1286

from appellate courts to circuit courts;

decisions , appeals , et...c.....

1286

transfer of pending criminal cases to

Federal courts.

1287.

from appellate courts to circuit courts;

decisions , appeals, etc...

1287

determination of pending original cases in

State courts; appeals, etc...

1287

jurisdiction of pending cases in State

supreme court; appeals, etc ...

1287

criminal cases in Indian Territory

1287

3500

INDEX .

Oklahoma, State of-Continued.

Page.

lands in Cleveland County, granted to

University; confirmation by State

legislature...

932

may grant section of school land to Chandler 1414

Oklahoma Territory,

appropriation for Indian Service in for salaries, government in..

361, 1043 416

for contingent expenses.

417

for legislative expenses .

417

legislative appropriations not to be

used, etc

639

officers to continue if State not ad-

mitted, etc...

639

act of legislature appropriating for buildings Northwestern Normal School, Alva,

ratified ..

454

concerning insane asylum, Fort Supply,

ratified ..

853

amount for Lawton waterworks increased .. 62

assumption of debts and liabilities by

State...

270

change of Washita county seat from Cloud

Chiefto New Cordell, ratified ..

50

division of lands, etc. , to Osages in...

539

election districts for constitutional con-

vention .....

268

apportionment by governor, chief justice,

and secretary.

268

commissioner for Osage Reservation... 268 election laws applicable to choosing dele-
gates to constitutional convention .. 268

grant of lands for University Preparatory

School ....

623

jurors, provisions for selecting grand and petit..
opening to entry, Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache pasture and wood reserves..
proclamation . patents to missions and churches for allot-
ments on ceded Indian lands; payment to Indians

11 213 3233
365

Pawhuska, ratification of incorporation as

a city.

1376

preference to settlers on Kiowa, etc. , pas-

ture lands , Comanche County..

550

recording district authorized in Osage Indian Reservation; officers, etc .... 208

rights of way of railroads operating through

lands reserved for, confirmed ..:.

481

88888888

lands to be disposed of, subject to ease-

ment ..

481

town sites set aside in lands of Kiowas ,

Comanches, and Apaches ...

80

sales ; school reservations...

80

intoxicating liquors prohibited ; punish-

ment ..

80

expenses; use of proceeds....

80

Wichita Forest Reserve set apart as a game

preserve

3062

enlarged

3207

Oklahoma University (see also University of

Oklahoma) ,

grant of lands for preparatory schools

623

sale of portion ; present leases ..

623

Oklahoma Western Judicial District,

created; to comprise present Oklahoma

Territory .

275

courts; judge, attorney, marshal, and clerk

to be appointed..

275

attached to eighth circuit.

275

deficiency appropriation for district judge . 1390 Oklawaha River, Fla.,
appropriation for improvement of......... 1086

Old Dominion Steamship Company,
appropriation for reimbursing... Old Mans Creek, N. J.,

Page. 1292

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1115

Oldman, John, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ....

358

Olds, Egbert J.,

pension increased

2068

Olean, N. Y.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized........

780

appropriation for...

793, 1302

Oleson, Charles W.,

pension increased

1456

Olin, Louisa (widow),

pension increased ..

2591

Olis, George W.,

pension increased .

2041

Oliver, James H.,

now retired, may be appointed commander,

Navy, active list

632

examination ; to be carried as additional

number....

632

Oliver, John N.,

pension increased .

2244

Oliver, William,

pension increased .

2120

Olmsted, William A. ,

pension increased

1961

Olney, Franklin P. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

379

Olney, Henry S.,

pension increased . .....

2126

Olney, Richard,

reappointed on Board of Regents, Smith-

sonian Institution ...

822

Olney, Ruth E. (widow),

pension increased .

2423

Olongapo, Philippine Islands,

appropriation for public works, naval sta-

tion ...

566, 1188

Olson, John, payment to .
Olympic Forest Reserve , Wash. , proclamation enlarging.
Omaha Indian Allottees, Nebr., fee-simple patents authorized to certain.......
Omaha Indians, Nebr., shares of minors, etc., in trust funds may be paid to guardians ...
Omaha, Nebr.,

2662 3306 356
356

appropriation for warehouse , Indian sup--

plies ..

329, 1018

terms of court at.

998

Omberg, J. A., jr., may dam White River, Ark., and deed the same to the United States ..
use of water power for electric plant, etc. Omo, Harry W.,
pension.. Onan, Warren,
pension increased . Onancock River, Va.,

628 629
1585
2806

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1117

O''Neal, Hugh,

pension increased

2782

O'Neal, John,

military record corrected and name of

Aaron Everly substituted ...

1715

O'Neall , Charlotte S. (widow),

pension increased ..

2544

Oneida Indian Reservation, Wis.,

fee-simple patents authorized to allottees

on......

381

INDEX .

3501

Oneida Indians,
fee-simple patents to certain allottees ....
O'Neil, Ann (widow), pension increased
O'Neil, Peter, discharge granted ..
Ontonagon, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. preliminary examination of harbor to be made .
Ooyusuttah, Sarah, Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed ..

Page. 381 2618 2701
1096 1114 345

Opinions ofthe Attorney-General, appropriation for editing, etc. , Volume 25 . 753

Opium, D. C.,

restriction on sale, etc. , of..

179

Oppel, George, pension increased
Orange River, Fla. , appropriation for improvement of...
Ordnance and Ordnance Stores, Army, Obsolete, loan authorized to State and Territorial schools and soldiers and sailors' orphans' homes ...
bond required ; limitation . delivery of gun carriage to Ripley, Tenn..

2249 1086
817 818 836

Ordnance, Army,

issue of heavy guns to States for permanent

militia encampments, repealed ..... 1060

expenses to be charged against appropria-

tions for manufacture, etc....

1062

Ordnance Department, Army,

appropriation for enlisted men; langev-

ity...

242, 1160

1 for pay of officers ; longevity . for current expenses...

244, 1162 257, 1174

for ammunition, etc., for small arms . 257, 1174

+ for firing morning and evening gun.. 257, 1174

for small-arms target practice, medals,

etc....

257, 1174

for field artillery for militia ; balances

available...

257, 1174

for manufacture of arms at armories .. 257, 1174

militia to be furnished with new type

of small arm..

1174

for repairing ordnance , etc ..

257, 1175

for purchase, etc. , of ordnance stores . 257, 1175

for equipments..

257, 1175

for Benícia Arsenal, Cal..

257

for general supply depot, Fort Mason ,

Cal...

257

for national trophy, etc. , rifle contests 258, 1175

for fire-control instruments for field bat-

teries...

1175

deficiency appropriation for . for ordnance stores.

46 46, 1401, 1404

appropriations available for two years.. 1175

number of officers increased ..

455

details for service in, from Army at large;

competitive examinations....

455

not to serve again until after one year.

455

reimbursement for stores procured for other

Departments, etc ....

258

return of field guns , etc. , from Connecticut,

authorized..

105

to be credited to militia quota..........

105

use of funds from stores transferred to

Philippine government....

258

Ordnance, Navy,

appropriation for; restriction on chases..
for reserve supply; restrictions . deficiency appropriation for..

pur557, 1179 558 1402

Ordnance Office, War Department, appropriation for clerks, etc...

Page. 420, 966

draftsmen, etc., to be paid from appro-

priations for fortifications, etc.;

limit..

420, 966

for rent..

421, 967

Oregon ,

appropriation for Indian service in .... 366, 1045

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in................

369, 1045

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc

435, 981

for dredge for use in harbors, etc. , of

Washington and..

1107

deficiency appropriation for pay, etc. ,

volunteers..

46,666, 1404

Ashland Forest Reserve, enlarged .... 3196, 3298

Baker City Forest Reserve merged into

Blue Mountains Reserve ..

3195

Blue Mountains Reserve, established

3194

enlarged and Maury Mountain Reserve

added to..

3302

Cascade Range Forest Reserve, enlarged.

3270, 3300

Chesnimaus Forest Reserve, established . 3022

included in Imnaha

3284

Coquille Forest Reserve, established

3299

forest reserves not to be created or added to
in, except by act of Congress..... Fremont Forest Reserve, established . Goose Lake Forest Reserve, established . Heppner Forest Reserve, established . Imnaha Forest Reserve, established .

1271 3231 3226 3222 3084

Maury Mountain Forest Reserve, estab-

lished ..

3066

added to Blue Mountains Reserve..

3302

prosecutions for illegal fishing in Alaska
may be in district courts.... violations of Alaska salmon fisheries act

264 .

may be in.....

4 81

purchasers of Umatilla Reservation grazing

lands, may receive patents

611

Siskiyou Forest Reserve, established .

3239

enlarged....

3280

Tillamook Forest Reserve, established .

3310

Wallowa Forest Reserve, established .. included in Imnaha

3004 .3284

Wenaha Forest Reserve, Wash. and, es-

tablished ...

3010 -

enlarged.. "Oregon," Battle Ship,
appropriation for modernizing batteries... O'Reilly, Margaret ( widow),,
pension increased .

3279 558 2759

Orem, J. Bailey,

pension increased .

1988

Original Packages,

of adulterated or misbranded food or drugs,

may be seized in transit, etc ..

771

condemnation proceedings ..

771

Orillia, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul...

100

Orr, Eliza (widow),

pension increased ..

1559

Orr, Eugene, alias Charles Southard, pension increased .

1874

Orth, Jacob G.,

pension increased

1644

Osage Agency, Okla. ,

appropriation for Indian agent at...... 361, 1043

Osage Indian Reservation, Okla. (see also

Oklahoma, State of),

incorporated in State of Oklahoma..

268

delegate to convention to form constitution

for Oklahoma, from.....

268

3502

INDEX.

Osage Indian Reservation, Okla.-Cont'd election district for Oklahoma constitutional convention.. commissioner to establish precincts, etc. nominations, ballots, etc.. proceedings, constitutional convention election.:..
to remain a county until lands allotted , etc. recording district established in; officer,
etc ... termination of..

Page.
268 268 269
269 277
208 209

limit of credit by traders to Indians on,

increased .

366

distribution of lands, etc. , to members of

tribe ......

540

Osage Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 363, 1043

distribution of principal per capita ... 1043

for Lorenzo A. Bailey, legal services..

366

claim of Vann and Adair against, referred

to Court of Claims..

365

division of lands and funds..

539

declaration of roll of membership ....

539

list of alleged fraudulent names to be

filed ..

540

investigated names.

540

adding and striking off names .

540

general provisions for appeal to courts not

applicable...

540

division of lands and funds .

540

first selection of lands ..

540

for minors....

540

lands in possession of other members. 541

second selection...

541

third selection....

541

first selection to be a homestead, inalien-

able and nontaxable...

541

other selections, surplus lands , inalien-

able for twenty-five years..

541

distribution of remaining lands.

541

commission to select and divide lands ; ex-

penses from royalties, etc ...

541

certificates of competency to adults capable of attending to individual affairs. 542

disposition of property except home-

steads .

542

taxation of surplus lands ..

542

oil, gas, and mineral lands restrictions ..

542

reservations from selections ; Saint Louis

and Saint John's school and lands of

John N. Florar....

542

lands at Gray Horse and Hominy .

542

school , etc. , reserves at Pawhuska ; sale,

etc ..

542

agency buildings, etc. , Pawhuska to be

sold; proceeds ...

543

preferences to principal chief and inter-

preter....

543

cemetery tract conveyed to Pawhuska;

reversion...

543

town site commission continued ..

543

oil, gas, and mineral lands reserved for

tribe; leases....

543

royalties under mineral leases deter-

mined by the President....

543

mining, etc., on homesteads restricted ;

existing leases not affected ..

543

funds and moneys to be held in trust for

twenty-five years .

544

Begregation to credit of individual mem-

bers of tribe; pro rata payment of

interest quarterly...

544

payment pro rata of gas, etc. , royalties,

sales of lands, and receipts from

grazing lands .

544

Osage Indians- Continued.
funds and moneys ; payment to schools from oil and gas royalties
emergency and agency fund for use of tribal council..
final distribution at end of twenty-five
years descent of property; leases permitted .. execution of deeds... election of tribal officers and council .
highways on section lines to be established . rights of way, station grounds, etc., for
railroads confirmed; no title to oil, gas, or mineral ..
general authority to Secretary of the Interior.
Osage River, Mo. ,
appropriation for improvement of; contracts ..
preliminary examination of, to be made .. Osage Town-Site Commission,
powers and duties continued ...
Osborn, Carlon B. , pension increased .

Page. 544 544 544 545 545 545 545
545 545
1105 1114 543 1594

Osborn, Morris (father),

pension...

1572

Osborn, Susan M. (widow),

pension increased .

2246

Osborne, Elizabeth S. (mother),

pension....

2486

Osborne, Pa .,

bridge authorized across Ohio River from

Coraopolis to

538

Osenburg, William H.,

granted honorable discharge from Revenue-

Cutter Service .

2413

Osgood, Marvin,

pension increased

2429

O'Shea, Edward,

pension increased ..

2012

Oslo, Minn., may bridge Red River of the North ....... 467

Osterberg, Frank, alias William McKay,

pension increased .

1782

Osterheld, Henry,

pension increased ..

2524

Ostermann, William,

pension increased .

1602

Oswego, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts...

1078

granted immediate transportation priv-

ileges ..

199

Othmer, A. B.,

payment to ..

2662

Otoe and Missouria Indians,

payment to Choctaw, Oklahoma and Gulf

Railroad Company from funds of... 366

shares of minors, etc. , in trust funds may

be paid to guardians....

356

O'Tool, Samuel,

pension increased ..

1590

Ots se kuddy kil dah hay, Wichita Allottec,

trust patent to issue to..

364

Ott, David B.,

pension increased.

1866

Ottawa, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire...

293, 924

Otter Forest Reserve, Mont.,

proclamation establishing..

3305

INDEX.

3503

Ottumwa, Iowa,

Page.

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

774

appropriation for . terms of court ...

790, 1302 913

Ouachita and Black Rivers, La. and Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1090

Lock and Dam No. 2, Catahoula Shoals ;

contracts..

1090

Ouachita, etc., Rivers, Ark. and La.,

bridges authorized across ..

1

Ouachita River,

bridge authorized across at Monroe, La.... 1254

Ouachita River, Ark. and La.,

appropriation for improvement of ; Locks

4 and 6 .....

737

Ouray Forest Reserve, Colo.,

proclamation establishing..

3271

Outfits, Navy,

appropriation for enlisted men and ap-

prentices.....

556, 1178

deficiency appropriation for first enlist-

ments .

46,647, 666, 1385, 1402

for naval apprentices .

46,647, 1402

for landsmen ...

647

Outlaw, Celestia E. (widow) , pension..
Over, Lawrence, pension increased ..

2486 2699

Overley, Mary L. (widow),

pension increased .

2186

Overton, Isaac,

pension increased .

2207

Overton, Jennie L. (widow),

pension increased

1528

Oviatt, Joseph Q.,

pension increased

2318

Owen, Alice, and children added to Cherokee final roll. 340

Owens, David D. ,

pension increased .

2239

Owens, Penina (widow),

pension increased .

1990

Owens, Thomas E.,

pension increased..

2083

Owensboro, Ky. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for.........

792, 1302

Owosso, Mich.,

appropriation for public building....

1302

enlargement of site authorized for public

building..

1236

limit of cost increased , public building... 773

Ox Bow Power Company,

time extended for dam across Missouri

River by..

1414

Oxton, Adolphus L. ,

pension increased

1546

Oyler, John E.,

pension increased

1791

Oyster Beds, Md., survey, etc., directed, of natural ......... 202
Oyster Vessels ,

provisions for protecting seamen's wages,

extended to...

551

P.

P. F. U. Rubber Company,

lease of Indians' lands in Colorado to , for

experimental farm...

88

mineral lands excluded ..

89

cancellation on unsatisfactory use , etc.. 89 absolute sale permitted ; use of proceeds... 89

888888

P. F. U. Rubber Company Continued . restriction on use of timber, stone, etc.... reservation of coal and other mineral de-
posits..... sale, etc., restricted ; forfeiture . Pacific Coast,

Page. 89
90 90

appropriation for naval wireless telegraph

stations...

560

for procuring torpedo planter for.

1061

for monument commemorating taking of, by Commodore John D. Sloat ..... 1408

differential in favor of bidders on naval ves-

sels from

582

relief light vessel authorized for..

996

appropriation for..

1319

waters of, included in third great coasting

district...

190

Pacific Coast Earthquake,

appropriation for relief of sufferers by...

827

for further relief..

828

Pacific Coast, North,

seagoing tug authorized for Life-Saving

Service ...

123

appropriation for . deficiency appropriation for. Pacific Coast Steamship Company, appropriation for repairs to vessel . Pacific Ocean, appropriation for surveys of coasts..... Packard, Horace F., pension increased . Packer, Aaron L. , pension increased .

702, 1309 1373 1292
714, 1322 2752 2344

Packer, Albert G., pension increased .
Packer, Gouverneur V. , credit in accounts...

2109 2666

Packing Houses, Meat,
sanitary inspection of, etc.. Padgett, Thomas H.,
pension increased .

676, 1262 1863

Paducah, Ky., erection of fountain by Daughters of American Revolution at, authorized..... 878
Pagan River, Va.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1117

Page, John B.,

pension increased

1879

Page, Moses B.,

pension increased

1784

Page, Sarah A. (vilow),

pension increaseu .

1497

Page, Thomas T.,

pension increased

2245

Pages,

appropriation for House of tives ....
for Senate....
Pah Ute Indians, Nev., appropriation for land for....

Representa395, 941 391, 937
358

proclamation opening to entry lands in

Walker River Reservation , ceded

by..

3237

Pahl, Ferdinand,

pension increased .

2751

Paige, Charles W. , alias Jackson, Morse,

pension increased .

1501

Paine, Nancy C (widow), pension..
Paine, Rufus I pension increased
Paine, Samuel, pension increased .

.. 2337 . 1450 2262

Paine, Waldo V

pension increased .

1549

3504

INDEX.

Painter, William, pension increased .
Palacios, Tex.,

Page. 1464

preliminary examination to be made of channel to Matagorda Bay, from ... 1117

Paleontologic Researches, appropriation for..
Palermo, Italy, classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire..
Palestine, Tex.,

727, 1336
99 294, 924
1

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

784

appropriation for.

796

Paplemnesri,oCnyirnucsr,eased

2708

Palmer, David,

pension increased ..

1438

Palmer, Gabriel Y.,

pension increased ..

1806

Palmer, Harriet E. (widow),

pension..

2296

Palmer, Ira,

pension increased ..

2168

Palmer, Jacob,

pension increased ..

2642

Palmer, Mary (widow) ,

pension.

1768

Palmer, Noah,

pension increased ..

1477

Palmer, Samuel,

pension increased ..

2176

Palmer, Silas N. , pension increased ...
Palouse Forest Reserve, Idaho, proclamation establishing...
Pamlico River, N. C., appropriation for improvement of......
Pamlico Sound, N. C.,

2442 3293 1083

appropriation for improvement of water-

way to Beaufort Inlet from.....

1083

Pamunkey River, Va. ,

appropriation for improvement of.

1082

Pan-American Conference, Third,

deficiency appropriation for expenses..... 118

Panama,

appropriation for minister to .

286, 916

for secretary of legation ..

287, 917

extradition treaty with.

2851

proclamation suspending discriminating tonnage tax, etc. , on imports from.. 3038

Panama Canal (see also Isthmian Canal),

lock canal to be constructed ..

611

message of President on , to be printed ;

distribution..

1418

Panama Canal Zone (see Canal Zone) .

Panama, Panama,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire

294, 924

for foreign hospitals .

295, 925

Panama Railroad Company,

appropriation for advances to reequip.......... 761

for paying damages to

1291

for advances for equipment of railroad;

condition ..

1369

for paying outstanding bonds ; reim-

bursement..

1369

deficiency appropriation for reequipment;

advance to .

33

renorts of operations, etc. , to be made an-

Jually.

5

ranguitch, Utah,

appropriation for Indian school ....... 375 , 1049

Pantall, Elijah,

pension increased ..

1869

Paper and Stamps, Internal-Revenue, appropriation for...
deficiency appropriation for.

Page. 705, 1312
1375

Paper, Distinctive,

appropriation for expenses, United States

securities...

706, 1313

for expenses, national currency.. 706, 1313

Paperfor Checks and Drafts, appropriation for.
deficiency appropriation for.

413, 960 31

Papers, Useless, in post-offices, to be disposed of; proceeds.. 186

"Paprica, " Sailboat, appropriation for reimbursing owner ................. 1293

Papst, Rudolph,

pension increased..

2362

Papy, Joseph B. , T

pension increased.

1549

Para, Brazil,

classification and salary of consul ..

99

appropriation for clerk hire ...

293, 924

Paraguay and Uruguay, appropriation for minister to .. for secretary of legation........

287, 917 917

Paramore, Edward F. ,

pension increased..

1974

Parcels-Post Conventions,

with Australia

2872

with Bermuda ..

2983

with Denmark .

2965

with Ecuador..

2978

with Peru..

2957

with Sweden

2889

Parents, D. C.,

jurisdiction of juvenile court over, neglect-

ing, etc., children .....

74

Paris, Andrew Jackson,

pension increased .

2134

Paris, France,

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire ....

293, 923

Paris, Ill.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

779

appropriation for.

792, 1302

Paris, Ky.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

779

appropriation for.

792

Paris, Tenn.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

781

appropriation for.

794, 1302

Parish, Joseph M.,

pension increased .

2605

Parish, Nathan,

pension increased .

1736

Park Place NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands for extend-

ing..

1012

appropriation for .

1012

Park Range Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

proclamation establishing.

3079

modifying area of

3285

Park Road, Belair Heights, D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for opening

highway from Water Side drive to.. 855

appropriation for..

855

Parker, Charles A. ,

pension increased ..

2645

Parker, David H.,

pension increased .

2088

Parker, Elias H.,

pension increased...

2419

INDEX.

3505

Parker, Frank M., pension increased ..
Parker, George A. , pension increased ..
Parker, Henry B., pension increased .
Parker, John B., return from President requested of bill to pension .
Parker, John G., pension increased.
Parker, Maggie (widow), pension....
Parker, Sampson, pension increased .

Page. 2053 1543 2365
2830 1562 1520 2238

Parker, Sophie S.,

pension increased .

2108

Parker, Zenas,

payment to.

1770

Parkersburg, W. Va.,

terms of court at .

891

Parkhurst, Jane, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

381

Parkhurst, John, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

380

Parking Commission, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses.. Parking, D. C.,

495, 1132

use of, by adjacent owners; error corrected . 112

Parkinson, John C.,

pension increased..

1885

Parks (see National Parks). Parks, Elizabeth (widow),
pension increased.. Parks, Neal O'Donnel,
pension... Parliamentary Precedents of the House of Rep-
resentatives, printing ordered ; distribution..
compilation and supervision . appropriation for Asher C. Hinds for pre-
paring, etc. Paroled Children, D. C.,
jurisdiction of juvenile court over. Parrill, William P. ,
pension... Parrish, Charles S. ,
pension increased ..
Parrish, Ella Q. (widow), pension..
Parrish, Hester A. (widow),
pension.. Parsch, Peter,
granted honorable discharge...........

2016 2301
1365 1365 1365
73 2313 1660 2235 2581 2820

Parsons, Ralph D.,

pension increased ..

2596

Parsons, Thomas W.,

pension increased .

2586

Partin, Elizabeth F. (widow),

pension increased .

1628

Partridge, Frederick W. ,

pension increased .

1645

Partridge, Katharine (daughter),

pension..

2007

Pascagoula River, Miss. ,

appropriation for improvement of, for

maintenance .

1088

Pass Cavallo, Tex. , preliminary examination of, to be made . of channel to Port Lavaca , from .

1117 1117

Pass Manchac, La., preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1113

Passaic, N. J.,

Page.

light station established , Lehigh Valley

Railroad bridge ; present channel

light to be discontinued .

995

appropriation for.......

1318

Passaic River, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of..... 737, 1079

channel ; contracts ...

1079

Passenger Lists, Alien,

required from masters of vessels arriving ;

contents ...

901

vessels leaving; disposition of.

902

from insular possessions ..

902

penalty for failure to deliver...

902

Passenger Vessels, license required of all, over 100 gross tons. 864

Passengers, Alien,

regulations of immigration of...

898

Passengers, Immigrant, space, etc., requirements on steam vessels . 910

on sailing vessels....

910

in effect January 1 , 1909.

911

Passengers , Railroad (see also Transportation) ,

free passes prohibited ; exceptions..

584

Passes for Passengers, Interstate,

issue forbidden; exception..

584

Passon, John H. ,

pension increased ......

2545

Passports,

issue to persons declaring intention to be-

come citizens , after three years'

residence ..

1228

valid only for six months .

1228

notgood in country of former citizenship. 1228

Passports, Foreign, restriction on admission of holders of, from Canal Zone, insular possessions, etc. 898
Patapsco River, Md. ,

appropriation for improvement of, and channel to Baltimore ...... 739, 1081, 1345

Patch, Emory Edward,

pension increased ..

1610

Pate, Robert C., pension increased ..
Patent Medicines, D. C., sale of, permitted; exception....
Patent Office,

1753 175

appropriation for Commissioner , assistant,

examiners, etc...

432, 977

for professional and scientific books,

etc ..

432, 978

for law books ..

432, 978

for Official Gazette, at the Government

Printing Office ..

432, 978

for weekly issue of patents : drawings,

etc.

432, 978

for investigations, etc ..

432, 978

for expenses, International Bureau 432, 978

for rent, model exhibit .

434 , 979

deficiency appropriation for Official

Gazette.

653, 1388

Patent Office Gazette, Official,

appropriation for producing at the Govern-

ment Printing Office ..

432, 978

deficiency appropriation for... Patents,

653, 1388

investigation of, granted officials , for inven-

tions in Government use ..

1422

Patents, Commissioner of, appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc .. 432, 977 to establish classes of merchandise for

trade-inark registration ...

169

Patnaude, Lydia A. (widow),

pension...

2251

3506

INDEX .

Patras, Greece, classification and salary of consul....
Patrick, Andrew, pension increased .
Patten, Aaron F., pension increased .

Page. 100 1495
1944

Patterson, Anthony,

pension increased ..

2641

Patterson, Eleazar A. ,

pension increased .

1461

Patterson, Emma L. (widow),

pension increased .

2251

Patterson, Franklin,

payment to..

2812

Patterson, G. R. , late a Representative in Con-

gress,

deficiency appropriation for widow .....

661

Patterson, Greenberry B. ,

pension increased..

2704

Patterson, Henry J.,

pension increased.

1641

Patterson, Hon. J. O.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses .

661

Patterson, John P. ,

pension increased .

2298

Patterson, Mary E. (widow of George W.),

pension increased..

2096

Patterson, Mary E. (widow of Lorenzo D.),

pension increased .

2044

Patterson, Mary H. (widow),

pension increased..

Patterson, Thomas,

pension increased .

...

Pattison, William P., pension increased .

Patton, Alexander G., pension increased .'.

Patton, George W., pension increased .

Patton, Lucy S. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to .

Patton, Mary L. (wrdow), pension increased ..

Patuxent River, Md.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. Paul, Indiana A. (widow) ,
pension increased..

2460 1727 2448 2074 1460 374 2375 1113 1548

Paulson (née Perry) , Elsie E. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Paupers, D. C. , appropriation for transportation of ..... 513, 1153

Paupers, etc.,

admission of alien , excluded ...

899

Pavements, D. C., limit of price for concrete, etc............

490, 1127

Pavy, Prior M.,

pension increased..

2166

Pawcatuck River, R. I. and Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of.

1076

Pawhuska, Okla.,

cemetery for Osages, reserved and deeded

to town...

543

disposition of Osage tribal lands, agency

buildings, etc., at

543

incorporation of, etc. , ratified .

1376

Pawnee Indian Reservation, Okla.,

lands of, granted to Pawnee, Okla. , for school, park, etc. , purposes ........ 1044
Pawnee Indians, Okla., appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 363, 1044 deficiency appropriation for support, etc.. 1403

Pawnee, Okla.,

Page.

grant of land for public purposes ; schools ,

etc ....

1044

admission of Indian children to schools ... 1044

Pawtucket River, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of; condi-

tion ..

1075

Paxson, Mrs. Rachel A., acceptance of land for road to Balls Bluff
Cemetery, Va ...... Paxton, Nellie (widow),
pension increased..

258 2272

Pay, Army,

appropriation for..

241, 1159

deficiency appropriation for..

46,

665, 668, 1401, 1404

for 10 and 20 per cent service in Cuba ... 1381

assignments by officers, permitted .. 241, 1159

computation of monthly salaries ..

248

Pay Department , Army,

appropriation for pay of officers ; longev-

ity.

244, 1162

Pay, Marine Corps, appropriation for.

579, 1200

deficiency appropriation for.

46,

647, 649, 666, 668, 1384, 1402, 1405

Pay, Navy,
appropriation for.. for miscellaneous ..

553, 1177 553, 1176

for contingent

555, 1177

deficiency appropriation for..

46 ,

647, 6966,, 668, 1384, 1402, 1405

for miscellaneous..

35, 46,

647, 649, 666, 668, 1384, 1386, 1402

for contingent ..

647, 1384

diminished officers ' , on shore duty re-

· pealed .

554

Pay Rolls, arrangement of monthly compensation .... 763

Payette Forest Reserve, Idaho,

proclamation establishing.

3067

Paymaster-General's Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc...

420, 965

Paymasters' Clerks and Messengers, appropriation for pay; traveling expenses . 245, 1163

Payne, Abel W.,

pension increased ..

2220

Payne, George,

pension increased .

2705

Payne, Harriet (widow),

pension increased ..

2038

Payne, Sanford D.,

pension increased .

2526

Paypay, Joseph, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to...
Payson Forest Reserve, Utah,
proclamation extending.. Pea River, Ala.,
construction of dam authorized across, near Elba, Ala..
Pea River Power Company,
may dam Pea River, near Elba , Ala ...... Peabody, Albert G., jr.,
pension increased.
Peabody, Daniel A. , pension increased .

357 3127
18 18 2256 2539

Peabody, George W.,

pension increased.

2422

Peace Conference at The Hague, Second International,

appropriation for expenses, participation

in..

922

deficiency appropriation for expenses of... 118

INDEX.

3507

Peace, Foundationfor Promotion ofIndustrial,
established; purposes, etc... Peach, Joseph,
pension increased .

Page. 1242
2519

Peacock, Martin,

pension increased .

2745

Peacock, Oscar F.,

pension increased .

2588

Peak, George C.,

pension increased .

2496

Peaks Island, Me. ,

preliminary examination to be made of

passage between Great Diamond Is

land and..

1113

Pearce, Samuel A. ,

pension increased .

2276

Pearl River, Miss. ,

appropriation for improvement of, below

Rockport .....

1088

between Edinburg and Jackson

1088

bridge authorized across, at Columbia,

Miss ..

933

Pearson, David M.,

pension increased .

1635

Pearson, John M. ,

pension increased ..

2234

Pearsons, Fanny A. (widow),

pension increased.

2261

Pease, Henry R.,

pension increased .

1665

Peavey, Hannah (widow), pension increased ...
Pecuniary Claims,

2689

international treaty for submission of, to

arbitration

2845

Peden, Milton,

pension increased ...

2488

Peekskill, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1077

Peel, J. J. L.,

payment to.

2406

Peel, S. W.,

claim for services to Choctaw Nation re-

ferred to Court of Claims ...

2415

Peetsch, Henry,

pension...

2356

Peirce, Benjamin F.,

pension increased ..

1662

Peirce, Caroline M. (widow),

pension increased..

2027

Peirce, W. W.,

age limit waived for admission of, to Navy

Pay Corps.....

2467

Pekin, Ill.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing..

30

Peking, China,

deficiency appropriation for legation build-

ings; use of balance..

27

Pelley, James S. ,

pension increased ..

1578

Peloncillo Forest Reserve, N. Mex.,

proclamation establishing..

3248

Peltier, Alexander B. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

365

Peltier, Catherine, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

365

Penalty Privilege Mail Matter,

record of, sent by Departments in Wash-

ington July 1 to December 31, 1906,

to be reported to Congress ..

473

limitation on articles entitled to..

477

Pence, Daniel,

pension increased ....

1758

Pence, John A. , pension increased ..

Page. 2500

Pend d'Oreille Development Company

may bridge Pend d'Oreille River, Big

Falls, Wash..

199

may dam Pend d'Oreille River at Big

Falls, Wash..

205

in Stevens County, Wash.

931

Pend d'Oreille River, Wash.,

bridge authorized across, at Big Falls ..... 199

dam, etc. , authorized across at Big Falls,

Wash.

205

in Stevens County.

931

Pend Oreille River, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1109

Pender, Lucy A. (widow),

pension increased..

1797

Pendergast, Michael, alias Michael Blake,

pension increased .

2492

Penfield, William H.,

pension increased ..

2794

Penington, Susan (widow),

pension..

1834

Penitentiaries, United States, appropriation for construction, worth, Kans ..
Atlanta, Ga.. McNeil Island, Wash .

Leaven750, 1357 751, 1357 751, 1357

for maintenance, Leavenworth, Kans. 756, 1362

Atlanta, Ga...

757, 1363

deficiency appropriation for maintenance. 657

Pennington County, S. Dak. ,

restrictions removed from entry in certian

townships in......

883

Pennsylvania,

appropriation for Indian service in...... 369, 1046

deficiency appropriation for claim of, war

of 1812 ...

29

Pennsylvania and Newark Railroad Company, may bridge Delaware River, Trenton , N.J.
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, may bridge Delaware River, Trenton, N.J.
Penobscot Bay, Me. ,
preliminary examination of, to be made, for harbor...
Penobscot River, Me.,
appropriation for improvement of......... Pensacola and Northeastern Railroad Com-

64 64
4113 1074

pany,

may bridge Escambia River in Florida .... 1239

Pensacola Bay, Fla.,

preliminary examination of, to be made,

to quarantine station...

1112

Pensacola, Fla.,

appropriation for public works, navy-yard . 566

for naval magazine, standpipe..

568

for sea walls, Forts Pickins and McRee .. 1059

for repair, etc., of defenses..

1059

for improvement of harbor .

1083

for public works, navy-yard ; repairing

hurricane damages .

1188

for public works, naval hospital ..

1191

for marine barracks, officers' quarters... 1191

for road to national cemetery, Barrancas . 1347 Pension Agents,

appropriation for salaries.......

133, 1407

report to be made on the reduction to one

agency .

1407

Pension Appeals, Board of, appropriation for men bers.
vacancies not to be filled .

427,973 423

Pension Attorneys,

fee for securing special pension acts forbid-

den; penalty..

133, 1407

3508

INDEX .

Pension Attorneys-Continued.

Page.

not allowed fees for procuring service pen-

sions ..

879

Pension Office,

appropriation for Commissioner, deputies,

clerks, etc...

430, 976

restriction on filling vacancies, etc .. 431 , 977

suspended ..

1388

for per diem, special examiners .

431, 977

for additional special examiners .

431 , 977

Pensions, appropriation for Army and Navy . Navy, from naval fund .

133, 1406 133, 1406

separate accounts required ..... 133, 1406

age of 62 and over, a permanent specific

disability..

133, 1406

service pensions extended to present

pensioners , etc.

1406

for fees, etc. , examining surgeon; exam-

inations...

133, 1406

rating and condition in reports .. 133, 1407

inspection of special examiners ' re-

ports ...

133, 1407

attorneys forbidden fees for special

pension acts; penalty...

133, 1407

for agents' salaries ...

133, 1407

report to be made on reduction to one-

agency ..

1407

for clerk hire; apportionment... for rent, New York and Washington . for rent, New York ...
for stationery, etc. for examination of agencies.

133, 1407 134 1407
134, 1407 134, 1407

deficiency appropriation for Army and

Navy..

39, 1389

for Army.

47, 1403

for Navy.

47

for fees, examining surgeons .. for contingent expenses, agencies ..

47, 1403 47

' allowed at age of 62, for 90 days' service in

civil and 60 days in Mexican war.. 879

rating...

879

present pensioners and applicants entitled .
double pensions excluded .. not available if receiving greater pen-
sion..... rank not considered .
fees prohibited ... effect of final discharge on military record..
extended to commissioned officers ..... granted-
Ackley, Louise . Adams, Sarah... Adkins, Jackson.. Agnew, Jane ... Aikin, Emma C.
Alden, Emily J. Aldred, Emma . Aldrich, Julia G.
Allen, Carrie May. Ames, Elizabeth A. Anderson, Emma C Archer, Howard William . Archuleta, Antonio . Arnold, Catharine.. Auger, Emma .
Bacon, Margarette R.. Bailey, Annis... Baird, Julia C. R. Baker, Isaac . Baker, James W. Baker, Parthenia W. Ballenger, Reuben R.

879 879
879 879 979 836 836
1747 1985 2186 2670 2484 1937 1534 1781 2769 2164 1672 2387 2485 2006 1519 2476 2112 2449 1743 1697 1653 1900

Pensions-Continued . granted-continued . Banks, William C .. Bargar, Sarah A... Barnes, Joshua.. Barr, Mary E. P Barrett, William Bartlett, Louisa. Bartlett, Rachel L. Bassford, Anna C .. Bates, Taylor.. Baughman, Mariah . Bausman, Catherine. Bays, William.. Beach, William J. Bean, Alba B .. Bean, Elizabeth B. Beardslee, Evelyn S. Beatty, Emma L .. Belknap, Rollin S. Bell, Frances .. Bennett, Ruth F. Benson, Charles E. Bentley, David J. Bergen, Gustave . Berghahn, William C. Berry, William.. Bevan, Lydia B. Birkhead, Miranda . Blackwell, Rittie .
Blair, Henry W. Bledsoe, Smith . Blodgett, Edward T. Bocoskey, Michael . Boesewetter, Otto .. Boggs, James A. Booth, Cora Allie . Borthwick, Isabel T.. Bosworth, Alice :. Bottcher, Ulrika .
Boucher, Joseph H. Bowman, Jeremiah. Boyer, Emma M.. Boynton, Helen Augusta Mason. Brackett, Josephine.. Brady, Lucinda..
Brady, Mary A. Bragg, Edward S .. Breighner, John Lewis Bernard. Bremmer, Lizzie .. Brewer, John J. Bright, Mary G. Brinker, Sarah A.
Bronaugh, Mary E. Brooks , Joseph .. Brott, Harrison . Brown, General M. Brown, Lucy.. Bruce, Theodore T. Buchanan, Edna .. Burnett, Madison M.
Burriss, Gideon M. Byron , Eliza . Cameron, Allen M.
Cammeron, Mary Edna .. Carpenter, William H. M. Carroll, Margaret . Carter, Isaac.. Carty, Ida.. Case, Anna M. Casey, Catherine B. Catlin, Robert . Caton, Giles M.. Chadsey, Susan H. Chambers, Thomas J

Page
1918 1509 1893 2481 2191 2486 1979 1898 2186 1482 2196 2237 1988 1872 1844 1518 2564 2483 1993 1646 2010 2009 2008 1982 1877 1711 2230 2565 2449 2670 2696 2369 1964 2082 2563 2824 2283 1637 2676 2740 1524 2350 2456 2182 2680 2153 2095 1596 1596 1445 1886 1942 2468 1502 1676 2073 2359 2166 1797 2110 1878 2238 1702 2005 1725 2259 1788 1582 1595 1506 2451 1464 1741

Pensions-Continued . granted-continued . Chandler, Susan J .. Cheek, Thomas..
Chenoweth, Mary J. Christie, James
Clark, Mary A.. Clark, William O. Cleaver, Elizabeth . Clevenger, Galon S. Cochran, Mary . Cole , James H Cole, Peter.. Coller, Hester A. Collins, Ada .. Collins, Charles . Collum, Georgetta K. Compton, Cynthia A. Compton, Emily. Connell, John W. Connor, Hilia Ann . Cope, Isaac.. Cory, Abraham M. Costinett, Carrie E. Cotten, Aurelia..
Cottrill, Cassy.. Coyle, Catherine . Coyner, Frances .. Crane, William J. Creiss, Theresa.......
Critchfield, Lyman , jr. Crome, August..
Cunningham , George . Cushman , Ellen S .. Cutler, Susan H.. Dailey, Rachel A.
Dancy, George L. Daniels, Abbie J.
Darcy, Mary E .. Davis, Aaron... Davis, Thomas B.
De Veaux, Florence Greeley . Decker, Benjamin H.. Dewier, Ann... Dickens, Sarah Ellen . Dickey, William N. Dieckgraefe, Louis .. Diehl, Milton..
Dieter, Philip .. Dooley, Frank M. Dougherty, Ellen . Douglass, Blanche. Dowling, Thomas F. Downie, Elizabeth A. Drake, Phebe W.. Duffield, Sarah .. Dunscomb, Edward .. Duvall, Harriet A.
Earl , Sarah Agnes . Eberlin, Eva Louise.. Eggleston, Moses .. Ellingwood, Charles F. Ellmore, Joseph.. Embry, Cynthia A. Estill, William C .. Etue, Sarah S ..
Eveland, Margaret E. Falbisaner, Charles .. Farrell, Edward.... Fenn, Lena S..
Fenzl, Flora....
Ferrell, Nancy V. J. Fiedler, Lydia A. Finch, David L.. Flagstad , Martin J.
VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -58

INDEX .

Page.
2697 1806 1541 2198 2476 1953 2336 1667 1994 1516 1908 2683 2066 2177 2479 2185 2011 2265 1436 2011 1450 1829 1663 1819 1657 1759 2814 1905 1710 1975 1975 1884 1483 1474 2747 2230 2005 2749 1698 1505 1678 1994 1988 2144 1444 2003 2484 2111 2725 1574 1785 2388 2144 1710 2742 1906 1856 2481 1469 2760 2112 1711 1787 1922 2009 1561 1914 1549 2574 2198 1745 1666 2483

Pensions-Continued . granted-continued . Flewellen, James P. Fonner, Joseph B Foss, Augustus .. Foster, Matilda . Fox, Emma.. Franks, Leola V. Fray, Alice A.. Frazier, Nannie . Frazier, Orlando W. Frech, Louis T... Frederick, Helen A. Fulk, William R.. Gainsback, John .. Gallt, James.. Garvey, Alice . Gaylord, Lucy A. Gee, Nancy Ann . Gerth, Susie M... Gibbs, Delia....... Gifford, Ellen S.. Gilkeson, Hansford G. Gilley, Alice E .... Gilmore, Caroline A. Godfrey, Florence H. Goetz, H. Edward .. Goll, Helen.... Granniss, Mary W.
Grant, Fanny M.. Grant, Fannie S .. Green, Hannah W.
Green, Joseph E.. Gregg, Louisa .. Griffin, Oliver H. Groff, Marcelina S. Grossman, Louis .. Guilroy, Margaret . Haas , Frank P.
Hale, George W Hall , John W. Hancock, Josiah C Hanford , Abbie L. Hapeman, Ella T Harman, Walter S Harper, John . Harral, Jesse.. Harriman, Ellen . Hathaway, Elizabeth Hattery, Betsey . Hausen, Edward G.. Hawkes, Emma A Hawkes, Sarah A. Hawthorn, Sadie E Hayes, Catharine .
Hayes, Nanny E.. Hayner, Emeline S. Heed , William I ....... Hennessy , Michael V. Hesler, Charles T. Hester, Jessie Marie
Hibbard, Helen G... Hicks, James R..
Hilburn, Virginia A. Hilgeman , Laura Hill, Charles R
Hill, Henry R. Himes, James P Hoban, Edward W
Hobart, John . Honaker, Floyd A.
Horn , Christopher.. House, Alice Hubbard, Ada N.

3509
Page.
2218 1744 1441 2240 2176 1575 1926 1473 1764 2313 1485 2289 1471 1596 2009 2581 1987 1971 2167 2336 2428 1496 2711 2133 1774 2468 2690 2746 2723 1470 1868 1967 2339 1650 1801 2483 1479 1652 1847 2317 2748 1507 2242 1654 2482 1718 2100 2229 2364 2484 2482 2786 2728 2664 1481 1479 2316 1596 1520 2216 2086 1916 1965 1790 1691 1762 2748 1787 2424 2564 2809 1777

3510
Pensions- Continued . granted-continued . Hughes, Adele Jeanette Humphrey, Delia S Huntington, James H Hutchings, Kate S. Hyatt, Hester . Ingle, Eliza J Irwin, Minnie.. Isachsen, Else C Isbill, Nelson . Jackson, George W Jacobs, Sherman Jennings, Jefferson L. Jett, Hiram C .... Jewell, Lydia A Jewell, Martha Johnson, Edna M Johnson, F. Medora Johnson, John B .. Johnson, Lorenzo E Johnson, Mary F. Johnson, Nannie T. Jones, Sarah A Jones, Lydia .... Jordan , Margaret A. Kaisted, Mary Kayser, Will E. Keith, Phoebe .. Keller, Lydia A Kelley, George W. Kelly, Richard H. Kennedy, Rhoda. Kennish, Robert . King, James S .. King, Roseanna.. Kinnison, Alexander Kirk, George B .. Kirkland, Mary C. Kissinger, John R. Kizer, Sarah A. Kline, Ray E. Knight, Florence B Knowlton , William P. Koch, Eva B .. Kohler, Elizabeth.. Kuhn, Estelle . Kuhns, Dora H. La Fleur, Laurette Lane, Ritty M. Lange, Johanne. Larson, George.. Lasswell, Ada J. Lawrence , Albert B. Learned, Mary O Leary, Ellen E.. Leathers, Clara T Leslie , Clara F. Lewis , Ellen C .. Lewis, Margaret.. Lewis, Martha J Lewis, Mary K Lewis, Winifred E
Lindsey, Wincy A Lockard , Mary Lockwood, Edward D. Long, Marion H.. Lovell, Sarah . Lucero, Jose N. Luckenbach, Jennie E. Lunger, Charles H.. Lungren , Sarah E. Lunn, Henry.. Lunsford, Levi N. Lusch, William I

INDEX .

Page.
1849 2482 2741 1954 2006 2291 1983 1471 2480 1688 2240 2468 2485 1431 1880 1974 2486 2158 1958 2712 2566 2349 1824 2749 2481 2006 1874 1768 2232 1580 1768 1861 2167 2486 1670 1892 1598 2816 2357 1731 1673 2220, 1587 1977 1598 1459 2787 2481 2566 1597 1973 . 1823 1787 2010 1552 1922 1784 1842 2564 1514 1518 2010 1960 2070 1534 1925 2005 2487 2193 2722 2721 1803 1876

Pensions-Continued. granted -continued . Luther, Martin Alphons.. Lytle, Ann ... McAlister, Alexander.. McCarty, Hannah.. McClendon, Francis M. McCorkle, Lucinda L .. McCormick, Charlotte A. McCormick, Robert M..
McCraney, William .. McCray, Benjamin W. McDowell, Henry T. McFarland, Harry D. McKenzie, Jeremiah McKenzie, John H.. McKinley, Russell A. McKnight, Virginia A. McLean, Mary Louise. McLeod, Mary J.. McMiller, Vollie A McNabb, Lener... McNally, Margaret . McNulta, Laura McWhinnie, A. Louisa S .. Mabery, William.. Malone, Emeline. Maloon, Frances E. Manahan , Bridget . Mann, Horace  . Manson, Sarah J. Marble, Anna E.. Marland , Salome Jane .. Martin, Eva L.. Martin, Helen P. Martin, Hope... Marvin, Angie A. Mason, Elizabeth A. Mason, Sallie W. Matthews, Joseph. Mayer, William.. Meeler, John J. Mercer, Georgie A. Merideth, William . Merrill, Libbie A. Metts, Jane .. Middleton , Anna E. Miller, Edward.. Miller, Mary L.. Mitchell, Cora F.
Mitchell, Cornelia . Mitchell, Cornelia.. Mitchell, Mary.. Mittag, Azelia.. Moats, Sanford H.
Montgomery, Mary A. Moore, Delilah.. Morgan, Mary C. Morgan, William T. Morris, Joann.. Morrison, Edith F. Morrison, Harriet L. Morrow , Ella B .. Morton, Harriet A. Muhlenfeld Martha E.
Mullally, Nancy J. Munsil, Rhoda .. Murray, Elizabeth . Murray, Mary.. Myers, Eugene A. Myers, Noah. Nay, John . Nichols, Lucy Florette .. Niles, Maria.. Noah, Esther M.

Page.
2302 2340 2207 1958 1985 2702 1890 1451 2809 2566 1597 1909 1933 1663 1455 2112 2430 1933 1595 1670 2581 1888 1722 2169 1671 1867 2113 1725 1894 2565 2749 1722 1700 2393 1520 1694 1799 1980 1666 1592 2487 1676 2342 2265 1882
2757 1555 1775 2008 2563 1477 2740 2419 2094 2007 1658 1916 1503 2008 1916 2743 2010 2760 2420 2008 1669 2488 2235 2081 2156 2227 2236 2007

Pensions- Continued. granted-continued . Nolan, Martin ... Ocker, Belle M. O'Connor, Minnie C. Odiorne, Benjamin T. O'Donald, Harriet .
O'Hare, Mary E .. Omo, Harry W. Osborn, Morris .. Osborne, Elizabeth S. Outlaw, Celestia E Paine, Nancy C. Palmer, Harriet E .. Palmer, Mary.
Parker, Maggie.. Parks, Neal O'Donnel . Parrill, William P..
Parrish, Ella Q.. Parrish, Hester A. Partridge, Katharine. Patnaude, Lydia A. Peetsch, Henry.. Penington, Susan.. Perkins, Vance .. Perry, Caroline E .. Peterson, Hannah C. Phillips, Juliet K .. Pierce, Ida E. G.. Ping, James M.. Pinnell, Glawvina A. Piper, Catharine.. Pitman, Sarah C .. Pitt, Sarah A.. Plotts, Alexander . Polk, Blanche C .. Pollard , Allison W Pollard, Martha W Posey, Maria Elizabeth . Powell, Helen G.. Powell , Julia A.. Powers, Alice W. Prentiss, Joseph L. Priddy, Charles M. Prout, Lizzie H.. Rafferty, Florence D. Randall, James S .. Rea, Emma M.. Reed, Estelle I..
Reichburg, Augusta C. Remington, Martha A. Renick, Oscar F. Reynolds, Aletha E. Reynolds, John .... Reynolds, Michael . Richey, Amanda M.
Richmond, Josephine I. Rittenberry, Mack.. Robb, Daniel . Robey, Sarah E.
Robins, George W Robinson, George W. Robison , William C. Rogers , Maria . Rogers, Susan J. Rohr, Annie.. Rollins, Georgia A. Rounds, Susan J.. Rourk, Alice ... Russell, James W. Ryan, Albert M. St. John , Harriet E. Salter, Horace .. Sanders, Harriet P.
Saxe, George ....

INDEX.

Page.
1711 2788 2824 1864 2270 1976 1585 1572 2486 2486 2337 2296 1768 1520 2301 2313 2235 2581 2007 2251 2356 1834 2479 2190 1851 1922 2564 2485 1590 2007 2564 1674 2127 2487 1994 2257 1699 2174 1671 1872 1635 1696 2009 1515 1709 1499 2374 2164 1796 1655 1488 1712 2144 1507 2289 2485 2332 2477 2796 1737 1705 2214 2735 1523 1496 1467 1682 2234 1966 1597 2072 2139 1697

Pensions- Continued.
granted--continued . Scandlyn, William T. Schaffner, Bernhard . Schaffner, Daniel .. Scheele, Minnie .. Schmidtke, Amelia .. Schoske, Mary. Scott, Mary E.. Scranton, Clara N. Selders, Sarah E .. Sellers, Fidelia.. Settlemire, Mattie.. Shepherd , Willard V Sherman, Eleanor N.
Sherman, Emily J .. Short, William C. Shreve, Mariam T.. Shutler, Mary.. Simmons, William . Sistrunk, Henry. Sivels, Ellen T..
Skaden, Charles, jr . Skeens, Jimison F. Smith, Emma A.. Smith, Sarah ... Smith, Susan C .. Smithers, Harriet M. Southerland , James C. Sparks, Josephine V. Sparks, William W. Spaulding, Mae.. Spier, Catherine. Staab, Sophie M. Stacy, John H .. Stalcup, Susan R. Stark, Marion W. Stegal , William.. Stephens, Martha A. L. Stevens, Margaret .. Stevens, Martha . Stevens, Thomas J.
Strout, Lucy C... Studdert, Katherine . Stuessi , Elizabeth . Sullivan, Cornelius . Sullivan, Sarah Agnes . Summers, Harriett B. Sumner, John V Swayne, Ellen H.
Sweeney, William H. , jr . Talkington, Inez ..
Tathem, John F. Taylor, Frances E.
Taylor, George S .. Teeters, Nancy A. Templeton, Phoebe . Thomas, Clarence W. Thomas, George .. Thomas, Lucy A. Thompson, Clara M.. Thompson, Emanuel S. Thompson, Mary E .. Thompson, Sarah A. Thurber, Gordon A. Tilburn , Eugenie ... Tilton, Rhetta Florence . Townsend, Abigail. Tredick, Annie L.. Tudor, Benjamin F. Tyler, William L.. Van Amringe, Mary Ellen . Van Blarcom, Mary Vetter, Christina . Visscher, Mary J.

3511
Page.
1671 1558 2697 2483 2752 2469 1586 1878 2776 2352 1566 1754 2711 2290 1723 1480 2484 1865 1958 1915 1904 2351 1887 2006 1872 2071 2330 2222 2664 2125 1780 2179 1934 2156 1794 2487 2784 2011 2577 1587 2008 2188 2792 2145 2120 1838 2565 1921 1943 1877 1875 2129 1670 1654 2566 2789 1850 2168 1597 1882 2268 2010 2185 1863 2094 1791 1491 2101 2565 2744 1532 2563 1558

3512

Pensions-Continued.

granted-continued .

Vroom, Julia A..

Wabrass, John W.

Wadsten, Lars F.

Wadsworth, Eliza I' .

Wagoner, John T. Waldron, Emma C..

Walke, Lucy. Walker, John P.

Walter, Dora C. Walz, Julia...

Ward, John W. Ward , Vienna

Warner, Ida M.

Warren, George W.

Watson, Mary B. Weathersby, Dora A. Webb, Amanda M ..

Wehr, Solomon F.

Weigand, Mary A. Weisse, Emil S..

Werner, Adam.

Westenhaver, Alta M.

Whisler, Mary..

White, Alethia .

White, Edward T.

White, Harrison.....

Whitley, Eliza E. Wilborn, David .

Wilcox, Jefferson .

Will, Henry P.

Williams, Matilda J.

Willis, William D.

V.

Wilmer, Hannah E.

Wilsey, Mary C. Wilson , Eliza B.

Wilson, Van C..

Winfrey, Mary. Winkler, James J.

Winter, Clara E..

Winters, Ida L.......

Winters, William H.

Wood , James M...

Woodward, Helen L.

Worth, Maud O ...

Wright , Phebe..

Yerington, Mary B. Young, Kate E ..

Zurrin, Rosa... increased-

Aaron, Michael .

Abbey, George J.. Abbott, Alvin ..

Abbott, Charles S ..

Abbott, Manning. Abel, John D...

Abney, Julia A

Achey, Ephraim D. Acker, Dillon F.

Ackerley , Albert J. Ackerman, Frederick G .. Ackert, William H.

Ackley, Emily V. Ackley, John F.

Adair, Thomas . Adams, Elvina .

Adams, George W.

Adams, James B.. Adams, Jonathan M.

Adams, Margaret .. Adams, Martin L..

Adams, Mary E ..

Adams, Ralph A. Adams, Sarah E.

INDEX.

Page.
2424 1992 1888 2241 2006 1892 1480 2752 1879 2089 2109 1733 2192 1881 1917 1721 2231 1646 1889 2751 1824 1596 2221 2484 1921 1571 2206 2298 2476 1685 2087 2085 1852 1944 1687 2788 1759 2011 1516 1516 1873 2748 2419 1727 2799 2742 1826 1703
2078 2759 1506 2545 1886 2456 2202 2155 1613 2608 2801 1583 2403 2735 1524 2455 1884 2111 2284 2643 1632 1963 1566 1647

Pensions-Continued . increased- continued . Adams, Thomas... Adams, Thomas D. Adams, Thomas H. Adams, William. Adams, William H.
Adamson, George W. Adelotte, Elijah C.. Adshead, John.. Agey, Mary A. Agur, Thomas A. Airey, Charles W. Akerley, Ebenezer W. Akin, Thomas .. Alban, William H. Albert, John.... Albertson, Ambrose D. Alden, Charles H .. Alden, John A .. Alden, William Seymour . Alderman, Jesse.. Aldrich, Lumbard B.
Aldrich, Truman.. Alexander, George B. D. Alexander, Rebecca A Alexander, Thomas C .. Allbright, Samuel . Allee, Mildred L. Allen, Andrew P. Allen, David H.
Allen, Delight A. Allen, Ethan..
Allen, George H. Allen, Henry. Allen, James L..
Allen, Joseph H. Allen, Josiah F. Allen, Lissie D
Allen, Mary E. Allen, Nancy N. Allen, Rachel . Allen, Rufus C. Alley, Shadrack H. J.
Allhands, Mary J.. Allis, Farrie M.
Allison, George W. Allison, John H.
Allison, Joseph M. Allyn, Lucie A .. Alspach, Henry W Alsup, John F. Alves, John.. Amburn, Allen.. Amende, Frederick A..
Ames, Hugh F. Amis, James F.
Amos, Joseph. Anderson, Andrew J. Anderson, Elizabeth A. Anderson , Francis ..
Anderson, George . Anderson, John C .. Anderson, John H .. Anderson, Samuel F. Anderson, William E. Anderson , William H.. Anderson, William Oliver. Andrew, Elias.... Andrews, Albert C.
Andrews, Benjamin F. Andrews, Oscar. Andrews, Samuel L.. Angel, David ..
Anshutz, Henry T.

Page.
2554 2093 2770 2205 2692 1570 2601 2423 2370 1821 2575 1978 2617 1556 1834 2362 2722 2143 2645 1828 1492 1906 1792 2148 2054 1812 2622 1779 1798 1856 1903 2698 1464 2294 1921 1751 2500 2421 1814 2043 2263 2592 1591 1736 1689 2260 1944 2766 2490 1934 1595 1449 1603 2051 1948 2333 2245 2104 2366 2327 1790 2068 2324 1848 . 2286 2541 2016 1649 2166 2628 1550 2472 1507

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Anslow, John.. Anthony, Charles H. Anthony, John E.. Anthony, John L.. Antrim, Jeremiah Y. Apgar, George M. Archer, Martha G.
Arey, Henry.. Armistead, John G. H. Arms, Alice A ... Armstrong, Andrew J. Armstrong, Hiram F. Armstrong, John .. Armstrong, Thomas.. Arnett, Eudocia.. Arnold, Anna.. Arnold, Charles M. Arnold, Dominick. Arnold, Elisha T. Arnold, Francis L.. Arnold, John H .. Arnold, Louisa..
Arnold, Mary O .. Arnold , Oscar R. Arnold , William .. Arnold , William C.. Arnott, Josiah B ... Arthur, Charles W. Ashelman, John B. Ashley, Rufus M.. Ashton, George W. Ashton, Thomas.. Ask, Jesse A..
Asson, Sydney A. Atkinson, Elizabeth E. Atkinson, Samuel W.. Atwaters, John D.
Auchmuty, Jesse M. Aucock, Robert ..
Auldridge, Jane. Austin, America J. Austin, David C .. Austin, Epsy Ann . Austin, Mary E .. Austin, Orlando O. Ayer, Jared.. Ayers, Ellis L... Aylesworth, Thomas E. Babcock, James B .. Baber, John C ...
Baber, Margaret . Baca, Saturnino . Bachman, Charles .. Bachman, Martin V. B. Bachus, Julia A.. Bacon, Florence .
Bacon, Philip .. Badger, Blanche . Badger, Nathaniel L.
Bagley, Mary.. Bailey, Adaline G... Bailey, Elizabeth L. W. Bailey, Franklin H. Bailey, Joseph . Bailey, Levi S. Bailey, William G. Bailie, Gilbert .. Bailor, William A. Baird, Louis A. Baird, William. Baity, William G.. Baker, Andrew J. Baker, Andrew J.

INDEX.

Page.
2454 2459 2691 2272 2187 1796 1560 2458 2322 1829 2532 1430 1429 2001 2764 2738 2605 1683 2671 2457 2682 1849 1729 1498 2435 2383 2480 2520 1838 2148 2782 2442 2346 1673 1744 2239 1786 2076 1693 2388 2585 2161 1514 2363 2417 2268 2201 2335 1614 1557 2746 1817 2620 1472 1992 2458 1474 2135 1498 1583 2530 2116 2395 1586 2710 2369 2696 2157 2264 2366 2365 1619 1759

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Baker, Edwin N .. Baker, Evan H.. Baker, George A. Baker, George W. Baker, John A. Baker, Joseph .
Baker, Mary A Baker, Mary E. Baker, Paul... Baker, Samuel . Baker, Solomon H. Baker, Susan . Baker, William M. Baldwin, John R. Baldwin, Julia.. Baldwin, Julia T. Baldwin, Thomas T. Balew, Elizabeth .. Ball, John E .... Ballantyne, Charles ..
Ballard, Henry. Ballard, Silas H. Ballew, Francis M. Bambush, John P. Bancroft, John W. Bandy, James T. Banister, Foster L. Banks, Jordan H ..
Banks, Wesley J. Banta, Mary J... Bantom, William H. Barbee, Mordicai B. Barber, Edgar M. Barber, Elizabeth E. Barber, Martin L.. Barber, Samuel .. Bard, Jeremiah . Bare, John P .. Barker, Calvin . Barker, Horace E.. Barker, Octavo...
Barker, Stephen A. Barker, William F. Barkis, Francis A..
Barnard, Joseph A. Barnell, Charles.. Barnes, Abner R. Barnes, Ann H .. Barnes, Anna D. Barnes, Edward A. Barnes, Edward M ..
Barnes, George B .. Barnes, William A. Barney, Hiram C .. Barney, James L.. Barney, Martin V. Barney, Waiter.. Barnhill, Sibby . Barnum, Thomas W. Barnwell, John C .. Barr, Abraham M. Barr, Albert T.. Barr, James W. Barr, John C.. Barret, Richard F.
Barrett, Anthony Barrett, Burden H. Barrett, Uriah D.
Barrows, Henry J Barrows, Homer A. Barry, James B.
Bartlett, Alonzo M.. Bartlett, Joseph R.

3513
Page.
1919 2396 1571 2715 2616 1672 2261 2126 2273 2445 2117 2756 2361 2037 1828 2579 2760 2594 1688 2392 2090 1740 1804 1647 1469 2056 2130 2174 1593 2780 1666 1750 2608 1800 1559 2509 2349 2613 2514 1488 2340 2703 2775 1757 2076 2300 2148 2678 2435 2222 1848 2216 1698 2359 2647 2302 1450 2535 1914 2179 1876 2438 2809 1562 2573 1495 2552 1459 2644 1475 1723 1832 2772

3514
Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Bartley, Elizabeth Bartley, Valentine . Barton, John W. Barton, Marvin F Bass, Martha J. Batchelder, Nellie A Batchelor, Frances Ann . Bateman, Joseph .. Bates, Archibald . Bates, Edwin D Baublitz, Samuel F Bauer, August . Bauerlin, Henry. Baum, Thomas J Bayless, Daniel B. Bayley, Thomas . Bayley, Virgil A. Beach, Franklin B. Beachey, William C. Beale, Joseph H. Beall, Alphenis M. Beam , Van Buren .
Bean, Benjamin F. Bean, Walter F. Beard, George W.
Beardsley, Mary L Bearss, Levi.. Beatty, John.. Beatty, Robert .. Bechtol, Catharine .. Becker, Frances.. Becker, Margaret . Becker, Martin . Bedell , Henry E. Bedford, Leah .. Bedient, George W. Beebe, Alva ... Beeks, William L. Beeler, Louis F.. Beeny, George W. Beery, Marinda D. Beesley, Martha E. Beham, Alfred .. Behrens, Fredrich . Behymer, John ... Beier, Julius .. Belden, Lewis F. Belden, Perry F. Belding, Jennie F. Belk, Lizzie... Bell, Charles A. Bell, Edward W Bell, James H. Bell, John.. Bell, Theresia. Bell, William W. Bellomy, Matthew H. Bender, Jacob .. Benedict, William W. Benham, Emma H. Benham, Joseph R. Benjamin, David C. Benkler, William .
Bennett, Ary S.. Bennett, Henry S. Bennett, Howard . Bennett, John P.
Bennett, Lloyd D. Bennett, Mary E .. Bennett, Morris .. Bennett, Phebe J Bennett, Philander. Bennett, Siotha ....

INDEX .

Page.
2095 1861 1914 2416 2058 1973 1513 2616 2640 2380 1932 1742 2554 2177 2457 2545 2098 2137 1455 1839 1740 2086 1430 1909 1645 2274 1436 1936 2069 1656 2202 1735 2649 1456 2159 1669 2182 1443 2361 2764 2714 2106 1857 1632 2172 1972 2491 2060 2104 1704 2707 2014 2354 2698 2384 2633 2002 2288 1545 1531 2580 2447 1638 2622 2147 2303 2778 1875 1749 1435 1494 1607 1717

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Bennett, William T. Bennett, William W. Bennington, Albert . Bennum, Henry O. Benson, Andrew J. Benson, Charles M.
Benson, Le Roy. Benton, Theodore M. Bentz, Rudolph. Beranek, Francis A. Bergen, John S .. Berkey, John M.
Berkley, Riley J. Berry, Jacob . Berry, James T. Berry, John C ... Berry, Louisa .. Berry, William H. Bethel, Nancy.. Bethurum, David . Betts, Ann.. Betts, Sarah.. Betz, Peter .. Beulen, James H.
Beyer, Hillary.. Beymer, George N. Bibb, Benjamin F. Bickford, Sarah M. Bickford , Sylvester.. Biddle, John .. Biederman, Frank J. Bierer, John... Bierly, Frederick . Bietry, Pauline .. Biffar, Francis A.. Bigalow, Nelson.. Bigelow, Benjamin Franklin . Bigger, Samuel P.. Bigler, Eleanor P. Billing, Edwin....... Billings, Martha A. Billings, Myron E. Billingsley, James D. Bingham, Anna C.. Bingham, Lorin R. Binkley, William G. Bird, Edward.. Birge, Julia A. Birmingham, William. Birthright, Louisa J. Bisbee, Watson F. Bishop, Charles E.. Bishop, Levi C.. Bishop, Mary C. Bishop, Mary H. Bishop, Menzo S. Bishop, Thomas E. Bishop, Victoria.. Bissell, James E. Bittleston, Henry . Bivans, Robert .. Bixby, Edmund W. Blacker, Charles . Blair, George .. Blair, George W. Blair, Hugh.. Blair, James T. Blair, William. Blake, Albert S. Blake, Evans . Blakney, Thomas. Blancett, Robert.. Blanchard, Helen M.

Page.
2715 2312 2728 2674 1719 1828 2628 2275 2244 1924 2769 1504 2576 2677 1429 2348 2763 2447 2447 2600 1476 2524 1644 1570 2228 2605 1566 2636 2642 1866 2493 1444 -1710 2099 2802 2283 1552 1668 2730 1625 2246 1500 1706 1957 1647 2298 2726 2684 1432 2247 2771 1636 1793 1644 2788 2709 1692 1704 2754 2708 1890 1887 2585 1688 2277 2305 2806 1727 1640 1887 2040 1990 1459

Pensions Continued. increased--continued . Blanchard, John W. Blanchard, Thomas T. Blanchard, William T. Bland, Theodore.. Blanding, James D. Blanding, Sallie E. Blaney, Anna V.. Blanton, John A. Bledsoe, James P. Bledsoe , Relf ... Bleekman, Adelbert E.. Blessing, John G.
Blethen, Mary R. Blewett, William E. Blinn, John L.. Bliss, Cornelius E. Bliss, James W. Block, Carl W. Blodgett, Ethan . Blodgett, Laura A. Bloomer, Daniel . Blossom, William A. Blye, Warren A.. Blyth, Thomas.. Bode, William.. Bodenhamer, George W. Bodkin, Elizabeth . Bodley, Levi N.. Boepple, Nathalia. Bogan, Patrick.. Boger, Ernest . Boger, Joseph R. Boggs, Albert W. Boggs , Oliver S. Bogia, Benjamin D.. Bogue, Michael .. Bohannan, Martha L.. Bohn, Christopher.. Bokart, John ..
Bole, Henry D.. Bolen, Enoch.. Boles, William T. A. H..
Bolinger, Benjamin .. Bolles, Enoch.. Bolshaw, Joseph. Bolster, David P. Bolt , Larsey.. Bolt, Martha Jane..
Boltz, Ephraim M. Bond, James .. Bone, William H. Boney, George H. Bonham, Marie G.. Bonner, Elizabeth A ..
Bonynge, Margaret. Bookhammer, Mary E. Bookman, John W. Boon, Robert .. Boone, Annie L. Booth, John W. Booth , William.. Boshea, Alexander. Bostwick, Joseph I. Boswell, Mima A. Bosworth, Thomas. Botner, Benjamin .. Botsford, Edwin A. Bottoms, William F. Botts, Columbus . Bouden, Asher S .. Boughman, Daniel . Boughner, George W. Boulton, William H.

INDEX.

Page.
2096 1894 2338 2372 1623 2092 2714 2158 2602 2668 2382 1653 1537 1490 1814 2744 2319 1584 1602 1503 1748 1806 1572 1773 1603 19231890 1615 2131 2614 2501 2462 2616 2712 1986 2453 2742 1779 1526 2577 1621 2022 2369 2427 2282 1482 2207 2143 2508 2398 2316 2780 1608 2738 2067 2570 1753 1442 2606 2533 2717 2398 1616 2109 2028 1800 1776 1691 2065 1605 1866 2533 2470

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Bourke, William C .. Boush, Sarah A.... Bovee, Joseph.. Bovee, Nicholas A .. Bowen, Caleb T. Bowen, David .. Bowen, John...
Bowker, Joseph C. Bowles, John E. Bowles, William A.. Bowman, Benson H. Bowman, Henry Z. Bowman, James... Bowman, Polly Ann .. Bowser, Thomas J.. Boxmeyer, Charles.. Boyd, George S .. Boyd , John N. Boyd , Samuel . Boyden, Elbridge P. Boyer, Jonathan J. Boyle, Elizabeth B. Boyle, Enoch ........
Boyle, George A. Boyles, George W. Boynton, Eli.. Bozarth, Abram J. Bradberry, John H ..
Bradbury, Augustus F. Bradbury, Charles A.. Braden, Miner L.. Brader, Levi .. Bradfield, Zachariah . Bradford , John .. Bradish, Albert H. Bradley, George M. Bradley, John .. Bradley, Nathan C. Bradley, Robert O. Bradshaw, Silas N. Brady, Mathias. Brady, Michael. Brady, William H. Brady, William H. Bragg, Benjamin.. Bragg, Catherine E. Brail, George G.. Brainard, Eli .. Brake, Robert .
Braman, Henry T. Bramel, Thomas.. Branam , William T. Brand, James S.. Brandau, Robert Brandon , Matthew H. Brandt, Jesse H...
Brannon, Margaret . Branson , Alfred .. Brant, Ellen M.
Branyan, Joseph J. Braselton, William A
Brawner, George W. Brazelton, Eli .. Breazeale, Frank. Breckenridge , Samuel M. Breckenridge, William C... Breden, John.. Brenizer, Henry. Brenton, Oliver.. Brewer, Horatio S. Brewer, William I. Brewerton, Sidney S. Brewster, George...

3515
Page.
1924 1481 2122 2344 2145 2337 2713 2684 2572 2115 1852 2275 2494 2809 1956 2445 2340 1742 2763 2494 1529 2314 2054 2692 1830 2329 1754 2197 1627 1445 1869 2250 1504 2210 2178 1542 2304 1624 2502 1472 1873 1451 1778 2731 2506 1878 1606 1692 2772 1541 1488 1869 2024 2154 2080 1986 2228 2371 1718 2567 1998 2462 1529 2522 2720 1450 1514 2035 1658 2679 1956 1918 2122

3516
Pensions-Continued . increased continued . Briant, Charles C .. Brick, Mary A... Brickett, George E. Bridaham , John G. Bridge, Gifford M. Bridges, William. Bridwell , Ezekiel . Briggs, Erastus W Briggs, Minerva. Briggs, Wells .
Brigham, Sidney S. Brink, Andrew.. Brinkley, John .. Brinton, George W. Brisco , Martha J.. Bristol, Dora T Bristol, James Edward . Britton, Daniel. Broad, John.. Broadway, John H. Broadwell, John A. Brockman, Washington ..
Brockway, Sue A. Brodowski, Theophil . Brody, James .. Bronson, Emmagene. Brooks, Alphonso .. Brooks, Asa G.. Brooks, John D. Brooks, John H. Brooks, Joseph . Brooks, Martha.. Brothers, John T. Brough, Charles M. Broughton, John . Brown, Abby L.. Brown, Abraham S. Brown, Adeline.. Brown, Agnes E.. Brown, Ahijah.... Brown, Alexander .
Brown, Alphonso .. Brown, Asail ... Brown, Bryant .. Brown, Charles D. Brown, Darius J.. Brown, Elisha.. Brown, Elisha .. Brown, Ezra H. Brown, Francis G. Brown, Francis L. Brown, Georgia D. Brown, Hamilton D. Brown, Harvey C. Brown, Helen S .. Brown , Henry Brown, Henry W. Brown, Horace E. Brown, Howard.. Brown, James A. M. Brown, James F.. Brown , James J. Brown, James M. Brown, James N.. Brown, James Thompson. Brown, Jasper N. Brown, Jerome L..
Brown, Jerusha Hayward . Brown, John .. Brown, John.. Brown, John C. Brown, John F. Brown, John L.

INDEX.

Page.
1734 2405 1430 2270 2773 1962 1960 2094 1447 1469 1438 2474 1480 2580 1560 2540 2501 1773 1776 2097 1846 2134 2724 2371 1470 2367 1665 2206 2357 2260 2793 1760 1844 2441 2076 2424 1822 2808 2558 1576 2464 2805 2617 2097 1841 1515 2212 2326 2014 2721 1581 1653 1960 1643 1984 1606 2183 1677 2346 1508 2060 2117 2349 2141 1874 2505 2168 1638 1854 2588 2283 2161 2331

Pensions- Continued . increased -continued . Brown, John R...
Brown, Margarette E. Brown, Mary E. Brown, Milton. Brown, Samuel. Brown , Talcott M. Brown, Thaddeus C. S .. Brown, Thomas. Brown, Thomas J.
Brown, Washington M. Brown, William. Brown, William A. Brown, William H. Brown, William H. Brown, William H Brown, William H. Browne, John.. Bruce, David . Bruce, Winfield S. Bruder, John M.. Brumm, Charles..
Brummett, George W. Brundage, Nehemiah M. Brunell, Joseph, sr.. Bruner, George .. Brunson, Susan M. Brunson, William N. Brusie, Eliza... Bryan, John A .. Bryant, Abby J. Bryant, James A. Bryant, James C. Bryant, John....... Bryson, Cynthia M. Bucey, Jesse.. Buchanan, Emma F. Buchanan, John N. Buchanan, Nathaniel . Buchmann, Peter. Buck, Alexander..
Buck, Argyle Z.. Buck, Bowman H.. Buck, Charles M .. Buck, Nathaniel Y. Buckland, Lee H. Buckley, James.. Buckley, John M. Buckner, David .. Buckthal , Herman . Budden , George.. Buehrle, Frederick.. Buffington, Jeremiah . Buffington, John J ..
Buffon, Hugh P .. Bugbee, Orange . Buggie, James.. Buice, Eliza M.
Bullard, Henry M. Bullard, James M Bullard, Jane E .. Bullock, Rutson J. Buncher, Frank. Bunker, Eliza A Bunting, Eli .......... Burdick, Franklin .
Burger, Henry K.. Burgess, Benjamin F Burgess, Charles W. Burgess, Harriet U. Burgess, James S.. Burgess, Noel J. Burgess, William T. Burget, Aaron J..

Page.
1825 1944 2663 2611 2350 2592 2047 1907 2775 2568 1907 2574 1548 1786 2713 2803 2174 1700 1810 2523 2488 1591 1855 1555 1584 2377 2818 2427 2025 2474 2131 2070 2522 2753 1783 2577 1753 1567 2628 2609 1815 2593 2651 2555 1452 1814 1484 1935 2065 1802 2705 2498 1648 1542 2087 1555 2092 2437 2415 1681 2318 1519 1766 2348 2137 2572 1930 2603 2771 2034 1930 2020 1854

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Burk, Patrick..... Burke, Bartholomew . Burke, Jeremiah .. Burke, John ....... Burke, John ...
Burket, Marquis De Lafayette Burkhardt, Jacob R.. Burks, William F. Burleigh, Charles H. Burlingame, Anna F. Burlock, Samuel J .. Burnet, Edward G. Burnett, William F. Burnham, Martha L. Burns, John .. Burns, John .. Burns, Oliver J. Burns, Peter.. Burns, William H. Burns, William H Burns. William N. J.
Burr, Mary L... Burroughs, Mary J.. Burt, Charles C. Burtch, Edward.
Burton, George W. Burton, Henry B. Burton, John N. Burton, John W. Busbee, Elizabeth B Busby, James M.. Bush, Jefferson .. Bush, Thomas.. Buskirk, John V Bussell, John B. Bussey, David .. Butler, Albert .. Butler, Elizabeth A.
Butler, James .. Butler, James T.
Butler, Mary E. C .. Butler, Odom.. Butts, Jacob B. Buxbaum, Julius .. Buxton, John M Buzzell, George W. Buzzell, Henry H. Byers, John M... . Byles, Einma.. Bynon, William H. Byrd, Thomas J..
Byrne, Sylvester. Cadieux, Joseph N. Cadmus, Sarah E.
Cadwell, Harry C .. Cage, Josephine M. Cahoon, Benjamin B. Cain, Isaac.. Cain, James . Cain, John.. Caldwell , Alexander. Caldwell , Joseph F. Calhoun, Edgar W. Call, Robert P .. Callaghan, Richard . Callahan, Jeremiah .. Callahan, Martin.. Callaway, Albert L. Callender, John R .. Callon, James B. F. Calor, Pleasant .
Calvert, Agnes E. Calvin, Archibald H. R.

INDEX.

Page.
1837 2766 2767 2041 2800 1577 2348 1764 1624 2492 1659 2694 2712 2648 1608 1793 2532 1642 2378 2208 1910 1835 2358 2448 2792 1774 1633 2201 1668 1803 1686 2285 1481 2562 2082 2171 1941 1789 2380 1695 2778 2178 2516 1897 2463 2582 2722 2160 2208 1581 2093 2699 2385 2547 2654 1760 1898 2499 1663 2091 2077 1616 1698 2343 2234 1678 1722 1851 2683 2356 1906 2568 2475

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Campbell , Albert H..
Campbell, Angus.. Campbell , Gabriel .
Campbell, Henry. Campbell , James W. Campbell, John .. Campbell, John P. , No. 2 . Campbell, Mahala F. Campbell, Martha S.
Campbell, Mary J.. Campbell, Peter .. Campbell , Priscilla A.
Campbell, Samuel .. Campbell, Susan.. Campbell, Thomas D. Campbell, William D. Campbell, William J. Canary, Abraham I .. Canasco, Juan.......... Canfield, Byron . Canfield , Charles M. Canfield, Levi A. Canfield , Luther H. Cannedy, Martin V. Cannell, Sarah E .. Canova, Andrew.. Cantine, Nicholas S .. Capron, Gilbert F. Carder, Thomas Carel, Frederick. Carey, Francis .. Carey, Thomas F. Carley, James M. Carlisle, William N. Carll, Samuel P. Carlton, Samuel E. Carney, Robert.. Carothers, Louisa M. Carpenter, Anna K. Carpenter, Charles W. Carpenter, Curtis A .... Carpenter, David A. Carpenter, Edward L. Carpenter, Elizabeth T. Carpenter, Ellen.. Carpenter, James, jr. Carpenter, John Carpenter, John .. Carr, Anson K.... Carr, George T. B. Carr, Henry C .. Carr, Jonathan .. Carr, Louisa.. Carr, Samuel V. Carr, William.. Carroll, John M..
Carroll, Mary Rebecca . Carroll, William A.. Carruth, Alexander W. Carter, Charles ... Carter, Henrietta G. Carter, Horatio .. Carter, Isaiah.. Carter, Thomas W. Carter, William W. Carter, Zadick.. Cary, William.. Casavaw, Joseph Case, Cyrus S. Case, Emma .. Casey, Andrew.
Casey, Henry W. Casey, Joshua B.

3517
Page.
2343 2034 2448 2279 2534 2350 1551 2133 1701 1551 2793 2326 2254 2184 1965 2353 1590 2053 1995 2284 2675 2164 2667 1732 2303 2522 2625 1474 1720 2443 1527 1818 1815 2647 1578 1913 2114 2546 1840 2395 1446 1523 2395 1460 2430 2437 1840 2628 1521 1564 1808 1600 2118 2550 1634 2111 2507 2181 2108 2381 2202 1454 2651 2150 2027 1801 1968 2808 2030 2786 2406 2804 2366

3518
Pensions- Continued . increased-continued . Cash, Marcellus .. Caskey, James T. Casper, John F .. Cassady, James Cassidy, John H. Cassle, George W. Castlow, William J.
Castner, Algernon E. Castor, George E.. Caswell, Oscar B. Caswell, Stoddard . Cate, Lewis H. Catterson , Robert F. Cauley, John R.. Cavanaugh, Dominick. Cavanaugh, John C .. Caverly, John ... Cero, Eli . Chacey, Peter P. Chagnon, William . Chamberlain, Aaron . Chamberlain, Abijah .. Chamberlain , Samuel E Chamberlin, Cutler A Chamberlin, Emma M Chamberlin , George F. Chamberlin, Simon E Chambers, George.. Chambers, Martha E. Chambers, William E. Chandler, John M .. Chandler, Joseph, jr . Chandler, Lewis P. Chandler, Thomas . Chandler, William .. Chapman, Charles E. Chapman, Charles T. Chapman , Clinton A. Chapman, Dewitt C .. Chapman, Edmund Chapman, James R. Chapman, Levi .. Chapman, Mary C. Chapman, Nathan D. Chapman, Thomas . Chapman , William H. Charles, Charles H. Chase, Daniel S.. Chase, George C. Chase, John A. Chase, John W. Chase, Melissa. Chase, Seth .. Chase, Thomas M Chase, William E Chauncey, Sarah A Cheevers, John M. Chelf, Simeon D. Cheney, Thomas P. Chenoweth, William J. Cherry, Mary O .. Chesebro, George W. Chilcote , Alfred B. Childers, George W. Childress, Rufus G. Childs, Earl K.. Chipman, James F. Chrisler, Nicholas . Christian, Paul J. Christie, Susan F. Christman, John H. Christoff, John .. Christopherson, Christopher..

INDEX.

Page.
2705 1911 2468 1624 1512 2584 1430 2327 2643 1615 2755 1486 1455 2656 1656 1574 1946 2159 1446 2635 2542 1820 1439 1553 2642 2692 2749 1943 1753 2104 2233 1665 2033 1704 1569 1846 2632 1705 2653 1739 2328 2297 2072 2321 1807 1968 2158 2169 1506 2704 2089 1481 2377 2688 2794 1605 2459 2295 2285 1613 2738 1758 1856 1962 1719 2292 1965 1678 2456 2382 2404 1456 2284

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Christy, William D .. Chubb, Henry.. Church, Byard H. Church, Charles . Church, Hannah C. Church, Kate S ... Churchill, William H. Claiborne, Thomas. Clapp, Charles H.
Clapper, Henry. Clapper, Richard E Clark, Aaron K.
Clark, Adolphus P. Clark, Albert Richard . Clark, Alice G.. Clark, Burr ... Clark, Erastus C. Clark, Franklin D. Clark, Frederick W. Clark, Gilbert W. Clark, Hiram C Clark, Isaac G. Clark, Jerome B. Clark, Job... Clark, John Clark, John Clark, John J. Clark, John L. Clark, Joseph H. Clark, Joshua J. Clark, Laura.. Clark, Louisa A. Clark, Martin . Clark, Mary.. Clark, Silas G. Clark, Thomas. Clark, Wilbur H. Clark, William J Clarke, William A. Claunch, Elias .. Clay, Cornelia W. Clayton, Holmes . Cleaveland, Esther A. Cleavenger, Minor .. Clegg, Doris F .. Clendenin , Frank . Clendening, William F. Cliborne, John F. G.. Clifton, John L... Cline, Jacob.. Cline, Peter..
Cline, Philipp Clinkscales, William F. Clinton, Christopher... Clobridge, Selden C .. Cloe, Emile .. Clother, Asa J. Cloud, Abby B. Clough, William .
Cluck, Albert G. Cluley, John F.
Coad, James C. Coates, John W. Coats, R. Smith . Cobb, Cate E .. Cobb, Cyrus W Cobb, Felix G. Cobb, Harlan P. Coburn, Mary. Cochran, John S. Cochran, William H. Cochrane, Irene A.. Cody, Gabriel.

Page.
2066 2070 1706 2670 2135 2488 2798 1824 2695 2582 2379 2054 2716 1605 2273 2597 2146 1868 2075 2610 2116 2257 2644 2613 1744 2541 2544 1650 2588 2132 1505 .2140 1943 1957 2429
1616 2260 2607 2758 1728 2697 2281 2316 2542 1818 1894 2663 2567 2181 2084 1629 1600 2379 1436 1675 2332 2595 2062 1712 1684 1614 2225 2196 2430 1726 2280 2548 1947 1691 2492 2736 1486 1932

Pensions- Continued . increased -continued . Coffey, John L.. Coffin, Griffin A. Coffin, Henry C. Coffman, Daniel M. Coffman, Victor H.
Cohen, Stephen D. Coker, John.. Colby, Abram P. Colby, William M. Colding, James L. Cole, Burgess .. Cole, Charles L. Cole, Clarke S. Cole, George W. Cole, Lucy. Cole, Norman H. Cole, Robert... Cole, Seymour. Cole, Theodore . Colegate, William H. Coleman, Clara P. Coleman, David B. Coleman, John , jr .. Collett, Dier... Collier, George W. Collins, Henry E. Collins, Isaiah.. Collins, James.. Collins, Kemenskio A. N. L. Collins, Martha J.. Collins, Milton S. Colson, William O. Colton, Francis .. Colvin, William ..
Combs, Henry D.. Combs, William W. Comer, Michael . Comstock, Franklin . Conant, A. Judson .. Conant, Etta D..
Conant, Henry A. Congdon, Caroline W. Conine, Charles ... Conine, Fanny L. Conklin, George . Conley, Carrie .. Conley, Charles H. Conley, John A. Conn, James L.. Connelly, Edmund T. Conner, William D .. Connery, Charles F. Connor, John ... Conover, Daniel S. Conrad, James M. Converse, James E. Conway, Silas P.. Conwell, William . Conyngham, John R. Cook, Adam ... Cook, Eunice .. Cook, George W. Cook, John
Cook, John .. Cook, John T.... Cook, Joseph F. Cook, Lutellus . Cook, Nelson ... Cook, Newton G.. Cook, Philip... Cook, Pleasant W. Cook, Samuel .
Cook, Sidney H.

INDEX .

Page.
1974 2754 1912 1744 2455 1607 2143 2279 2538 2556 1690 2610 2489 2686 2508 2326 2561 1687 2175 2107 2709 2069 1684 2235 1626 2471 1688 2640 1489 2450 2293 1548 1941 2247 2656 2084 1619 2630 2789 1700 2223 2529 1636 1886 1838 1771 1717 1622 2465 1543 2071 2578 1661 2209 1636 2551 2031 2627 2260 1620 2982 2/08 1537 1756 1767 2195 1788 1823 1859 1961 2032 2275 2150

Pensions - Continued . increased- continued .
Cook, Stephen H. S .. Cook, Thomas H.. Cook, William .
Cool, Benjamin H.
Cooley, Adolphus . Cooley, Franklin .. Cooley, George L .. Cooley, Henrietta C. Cooley, Marius S. Coomer, Justus B. Cooney, Patrick . Cooper, Alonzo . Cooper, John..
Cooper, Joseph J. Cooper, Nathaniel . Cooper, Seth H.. Cooper, William T. Coover, Samuel E. Copher, Reuben .
Coppage, Joseph W. Corbin, Daniel O .. Cordner, Albert D. Corey, George L.. Corley, William B. Cornell, Nelson.. Corner, Watson L. Cornett, Clark . Cornman , Phillip W. Corns, Mary T. Cornwell , John S. Corsine, Calvin .
Corwin, Quincy. Cosgro, James C . Cosgrove, Carrie E. Cosgrove, James W. Cotton, John R..
Coughanour, George W. Coughlin , John ...... Coulson, Saul. Coulter, John A. Coulton, Andrew J. Counter, Octave ..
Countryman , Joseph. Counts, Mary A. Courter, William J Covell, Thomas G.
Cowan, Campbell .. Cowan, Garrett F.
Cowan, Henry R.. Cowan, John .. Coward, Nathan . Cowell, James L.. Cowell, Oscar N. Cowgill, Alexander M. Cox, Columbus ..
Cox, Hartley B. Cox , Hugh M. Cox, James B. Cox, James D. Cox, Joanna L.
Cox, Wesley G. Coy, Edward .. Coyle, John B. Crabtree, Job B. Craig, Daniel . Craig, Franklin , Craig, John B .. Craig, Thomas C. Craighton, Solomon .
Craigo, Margaret E. Cramer, Andrew. Cramer, Peter.. Crampton, David F.

3519
Page.
2455 2527 1696 2043 2526 1998 1638 2711 1912 2447 2713 2230 2503 1566 1522 1930 2708 2452 2588 1891 2330 1658 2713 2570 2547 2734 2017 1511 2012 2504 2208 1870 2798 2504 2495 1620 1855 1972 2363 1512 1654 1856 2654 2124 2550 1690 2568 2734 1964 2557 1787 1448 2777 2453 2206 2021 . 2584 1767 2538 2319 2045 1466 2267 2247 1880 2682 1746 1780 2262 2706 2601 2211 1837

3520
Pensions- Continued . increased -continued . Crandall, Thomas P. Crandell, Henry . Crandol, James. Crane, John H. Crane, John W. Crane, William. Crane, William B. Cranston, William H. Cravens, Benjamin B. Cravens, John O ...
Crawford, Anthony H. Crawford, Emery. Crawford , Francis M. Crawford, John... Crawford, Robert B. Creager, John W.
Creasey, George W. Crecelius, Clark.. Crismon , Charles .. Crissip, Pleasant . Crites, William H. Crittenden, Frank . Crockett, William G. Croft, James E. Crofton, Ann H.. Crome, William . Cromer, Richard S. Crommett, Francis W. Crooker, Jacob P. Crooks, William.. Cross, Lemuel . Cross, Levi E .. Cross, Maria. Cross, Theron . Crossman, Greenleaf W. Crouch, David F.. Crouch, William H. Crow, Allen .. Crowe, Charles E. Crowell, John H. Crowley, John.... Crowley, Thomas. Crozer, James G.. Crum, William A.. Cuendet, Julius S .. Culberson, Sherwood F. Culbertson, Otho E. D. Culins, Peter M.. Cullen, Michael . Culver, Charles H. Cummin, William E. Cummings, William .. Cummings, William G.
Cummins, Joseph D. Cundiff, Stephen .. Cunningham, Edward R. Curley, Patrick.. Curnutt, John H. Curran, William. Currier, Aaron T. Currier, Marcus M.
Currier, Theodore S. Curry, Oliver.. Curtis, Elijah . Curtis, Joseph A. C. Curtis, Levi E .. Curtis, Levi W. Curtis, Oren D. Cushing, Andrew J. Cushing, Martha G. Cusick, Lizzie B .. Custer, William A. Cutler, John D..

INDEX .

Page .
2080 1694 2044 1709 2668 2472 2398 1440 2726 2773 1538 2327 2023 1961 2238 1809 1793 2648 1833 2400 1437 1700 1628 2419 2130 1545 1696 2272 2687 2464 2125 1642 2538 2584 2381 2061 2141 2155 1582 1494 2388 1993 2776 2506 2142 2037 2796 1866 2669 1706 2428 1799 2665 2173 2110 2273 1608 2341 2695 1483 2432 2078 2473 2088 1871 2549 2677 2472 2367 1501 1933 2098 1935

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued . Dachrodt, Jacob.. Dagenfield, Mary. Dailey, George M. Dailey, Samuel . Dailey, Thomas. Daley, John W. Dallman, Thomas G. Daly, James C ... Daly, Richard C. Dalzell, John K. Damm, Henry. Danforth, George L. Daniel, Mary A.. Danieldson, August . Daniels, Aaron .. Daniels, Clara E. Daniels, Joseph..
Daniels, Myra R.. Daniels, Thomas W. Danley, Andrew D. Darby, George W. Darling, Delphine . Darling, La Forrest C.. Daughenbaugh, Jonathan . Daughenbaugh, Samuel M. Daugherty, Lewis L.. Davenport, Abram W. Davenport, Mary E.. Davenport, Mary L. Davey, Henry.. David, Ferdinand .. Davidson, David L.. Davidson, Eliza .. Davidson, James M. Davidson, Lucinda.. Davies, Thomas J.. Davis, Barlow....
Davis, Christopher C .. Davis, David.... Davis, Dennis A.. Davis, Elizabeth . Davis, Franklin H. Davis, Henry C.. Davis, Henry H .. Davis, James ... Davis, James M. Davis, John G..
Davis, John W... Davis, Joseph.. Davis , Julius A. Davis, Lewellen T. Davis, Lewis F.. Davis, Lucretia .. Davis, Marcus... Davis, Moses ... Davis, Moses B.. Davis, Newton S .. Davis, Philena ... Davis, Philo E .. Davis, Richard E. Davis, Samuel B. Davis, Samuel H. Davis, Samuel L.
Davis, Stephen M.. Davis, Susan E ... Davis, Temperance . Davis, Theodore T. Davis, Thomas C .. Davis, Thomas J. Davis, William Davis, William Davis, William Davis, William F.

Page.
1608 1939 2014 2195 2085 1947 2563 2290 1792 1998 2458 2711 2369 1888 2263 2771 2430 1925 2575 1957 1777 2420 1656 1670 2228 1571 1726 1472 1799 1899 2331 1528 1898 2556 2553 1663 2301 2137 1727 1492 1448 2758 2641 2488 2352 2139 1726 1683 1504 2115 1826 2172 2457 2601 2059 1734 2089 1503 2108 1864 2508 2142 2537 1657 2797 2656 2192 2421 2042 1751 2783 2280 1643

Pensions-Continued . increased - continued . Davison, James H. Davy, Michael . Dawes, John W. Dawson, Sarah A. Day, Enos .... Day, Sarah Ann .. Dayhuff, Martin . Dayton, James.. De Bruler, William H. De Burger, Marquis M. De Castro, Francis H. De Graff, Henry.. De Haven, Samuel. De Laittre, Lewis .. De Noyer, Frank. De Planque, Frederick.. De Puy, John M.. De Witt, Orlean .. Deal, Harvey.. Dean, Chauncey P.. Dean, George C. Dean, Samuel C.. Dean, William .. Dearborn, Richard . Deardourff, John .. Dearey, James.. Deater, Levi.. Deckard, Jacob R. Decker, David... Decker, John L.. Decker, William A. Dedrick, Sarah A. Deems, Isaac.. Deems, Samuel . Defoe, John M. Dehlendorf, Caroline ..
Del Gindice, Francesco . Delaney, John ..... Delaney, Robert H. Delany, Edward.. Delany, William. Delaware, Ambrose S. Delisle, Joseph..
Delong, Henry. Delong, Richard L.. Demers, Eugene....... Dennis, Isaac C..
Denny, Mary. Denson, Lewis . Derr, Obadiah , Derry, Samuel .. Deskines, Rush . Devereux, Arthur F. Devereux , Clara A. R .. Devor, James ..... Devore, Elijah.. Dewees, Balas C... Dewey, Robert J..
Dewhurst, Joseph . Dick, James M.. Dick, Robert.. Dickens, Sarah J. Dickerson , Stephen.. Dickey, John... Dickey, Osbert D.. Dickey, William G.. Dickhoff, Wilhelm .. Dickinson , James K.
Dickinson , Joseph B. Dickinson, Orville...... Dickson, Joseph .. Dicus, Hugh L.......... Diedrich, Paul ..

INDEX.

Page.
2469 1992 2170 2200 1912 2103 1996 1865 2618 1806 2451 1989 2612 1939 2727 2500 1858 1610 1978 1570 2296 2101 2548 1543 1724 2230 2616 2018 2715 1764 2802 2295 1701 1978 2369 1780 1646 2589 2520 1997 1896 2299 2038 2196 1956 2304 1618 2614 2028 2147 1826 2293 1498 2217 2118 2800 1812 2397 2584 2772 1905 1523 1576 2229 2188 2636 1997 2191 1985 2601 1952 2537 2356

Pensions-Continued . increased - continued .
Diefenbach, Carrie .. Diehl, Daniel D .. Dietz , John..
Dightman, George W. Dilg, Fred... Dill, Elizabeth . Dill, Robert R. Dilts, Daniel . Dirck, David . Dittman, Fritz .. Ditto, Joshua S .. Dix, John P. Dixon, Adam .. Dixon, Alexander . Dixon, John M..
Dixon, Wiley H.. Dixon, William . Dixson, Alexander. Doan, Caroline M.. Doan, Isaac S ... Doane, James G.. Dobson, William . Dodds, Lafayette . Dodge , Orvil.. Dodge, Reuben D.. Dodge , Richard . Dodson, Levi .. Dodson, Palmetto . Doe, Erastus A.. Doersch, John M. Doherty, William H. Dolan, John .. Donahue, Patrick J .. Donaldson, Lovisa ..
Donnald , Ella .. Donnelly, Douglas V. Donnelly, Stewart J. Donohoe, Owen.. Donovan, Ellen . Doolittle, Samuel . Dopp, James.. Dorin, Charles.. Dorman, James W. Dorman, North Ann. Dorn, Andrew.. Dorrel, Nicholas W. Dory, Francis A ..
Dotey, Hyacinth.. Doty, Hiram B .. Doty, Martin B.
Doud, Edmond D. Dougal, Joseph... Dougherty, Mary E. Dougherty, Sarah Jane . Doughty, Francis ..
Doughty, Joseph W. Doughty, Lafayette.. Douglas, Alonzo .. Douglas, Robert H. Douglass, Andrew J. Dow, William B.
Dowland , Frederick J. Dowling, Clarissa L.. Downey, John .. Downey, Maurice . Downing, Ellen .. Downing, George . Downs, Michael . Doyle, Michael.. Doyle, Terrance . , Doyle, William B. Drake, George B. Drake, George M.

3521
Page.
2603 1612 2052 1554 1674 1583 2469 1690 2194 2617 1966 2402 2084 2364 2626 1996 1628 2252 1499 2335 1550 2510 1598 2716 2276 2449 2299 1874 2610 1540 1871 1600 1613 2286 2198 2490 2058 1574 2127 2422 2498 1882 1977. 2027 2026 2358 2686 2140 1452 2172 2406 1798 2710 2213 2626 2133 2634 1691 1805 1969 2286 2390 2093 2780 1453 2386 2450 2559 2293 2548 2785 2444 1564

3522
Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Drake, Morris B .. Drake, William F. Drake, William J.. Draper, Solomon .. Dreppard , Arthur R. Dreury, James .. Drew, Timothy. Driscoll, Mary. Drown , William D. Dryden, John D .. Du Bois, Charles E. Du Bois, Lewis..
Duane, Mary C. Dubois, Samuel . Duby, Charles .. Dudley, Erwin G Duff, James A.. Duff, John J... Duffield , Henry D. Duffield, William W. Duffy, Bridget M. Duffy, Edward .
Duffy, Mary. Duggar, Isaac L .. Dugger, Mary E.. Dummer, Samuel R.
Dumont, Philip .. Dunbar, Edward R. Duncan, Louisa...
Duncan, Mary A. Duncan, William R. Dungan, Milton R.. Dunham, Andrew M. Dunkin, Manoah W. Dunlap, George W. Dunlap, James R.. Dunlap , Martha A. Dunlap, Richard .. Dunn , Andrew M.
Dunn , Harvey T. Dunn , John P. Dunn, Michael . Dunnan, Samuel . Dunning, Andrew. Dunning, Austin S. Dunning, Charles H .. Dunton , Elizabeth C. Durfey, Edwin C. Durgin, Albert F. Durgin, Daniel E. Durney, Alice M. Duryea, Mary A.. Dutcher, George N. Duvall, Eli . Dyer, Ellen M
Dyer, George H. Dyer, Maria.. Dyke, Amos.. Eachus, Francis J
Eagler, Joseph T. Eakin, David F Eaman , James M Earle, Daniel C .. Earnest, William . Easley, Phebe . Eastep, Henry ( Eastler, Henry C. Easton . Della S .. Eastwood, James. Eaton, Daniel.. Eberly, John C. Eberts, Peter.. Echard , Heart.

INDEX .

Page. Pensions-Continued.

increased-continued .

1716

Eddy, James M..

1900

Eddy, Levi..

1988

Edgell, J. Frederick .

2442

Edgemon, William T.

1742

Edgerton, Ebenezer S.

1851

Edgerton, Fannie I.

2443

Edmonds, Melvin T.

1556

Edmundson , John L..

2103

Edsall, Clara C..

2772

Edsall, Thomas ..

2689

Edson, Jennie E ..

1949

Edwards, Alanson W.

1633

Edwards, Charles .

2733

Edwards, David A..

2417

Edwards, Jerry..

1816

Edwards, Lydia M ..

2032

Edwards, Mary A..

2574

Edwards, Sewall A.

2184

Egan , Bridget .

2682

Egan, James J.

2240

Egeness, Rachel .

1862

Egge, Perry.

1589

Eggleston, William A.

1958

Egolf, William H.......

1939

Eichholtz, Augusta T.

1764

Eiffert, James .

2033

Eldred, Levi E ..

2326

Eldridge, Esther.

2537

Eldridge, John , jr .

2270

Ellicott, George W.

1717

Elliot, Jesse W

2236

Elliott, Edward E.

1589

Elliott, Edwin ..

2461

Elliott, John J.

1937

Elliott, Silas G.

2630

Elliott, Thomas R.

2099

Ellis, Aurora Garwood.

2049

Ellis, Charles R..

2640

Ellis , Edgar D.

1625

Ellis, Howard .

1850

Ellis , Isabella .

2624

Ellis, Samuel .

1593

Ellison, Martin ..

1625

Ellsworth, John W

2445

Elmes, William....

1983

Elsberry, Thomas S.

1497

Emerson, Carlo J..

2604

Emerson, Sargent R.

2458

Emery, Daniel R.

1907

Emery, Joseph D

1681

Emes, Anthony.

2179

Engle, Samuel.

1564

Engler, Lucy E.

1886

English, Walter M.

2141

Enright, Lizzie E.

2385

Ensminger, John A

1582

Epler, Jacob H.

1896

Epperson, Margaret .

2874 |

Eppinger, William .

2300

Erick, John J..

2047

Ernest, Horatio .

2521

Ernst, Stephen..

1824

Esler, Alexander.

2644

Esmond , Friend S.

2248

Estes, John C.

2568

Estes, Julia W

2051

Estlow, James L.

2549

Eubank, James J.

1468

Eubank, John .

2159

Evans, Bridget .

1486

Evans, David .

2185

Evans, Green .

1598

Evans, James B.

Page.
1864 2401 1708 1882 1606 1509 2318 1696 2378 1646 2290 2714 2204 2429 1884 1805 2585 1673 1927 1510 2061 1434 1639 1918 2450 1529 2643 2437 1902 1697 1558 2024 2024 2048 1599 2572 2558 1590 2649 1639 2187 2675 2069 1482 1518 2678 2725 1657 2677 1964 1810 1606 2071 2383 2625 1533 1498 2620 2276 2076 2460 1497 1826 2080 1644 1458 2271 2433 2055 1635 2242 2111 2318

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Evans, John D ..
Evans, Mary. Evans, Sarah M. Evans, William.. Everett, David E. Everitt, Charles H. Eversole, John H. Eversole, William B. Everson, Ira J ... Everson, Nelson . Ewing, John .. Ewing, William M Ezell , Gillum M. Faggart, Rebecca . Fagley, Benjamin . Failer, William A. Fain, Fountain M. Fairbanks, Retta M. Fairbrother, James R. Fairchild, James B. Fales, Warren M. Falkenburg, Elias S. Fallihee, Patrick .. Fallon, Thomas T.
Fankell, George... Fargo, Sheldon B. Farington, David W. Fariola, Octave L. F. E. Farner, Jacob .. Farnsworth, Hurlbutt L. Farquhar, John M ..
Farrand, Lyman E. Farrar, Thomas J. Farrel, Charles.. Farrell, Arabella J. Farrell, John .... Farrell, William H. Farrington , Willard . Faulkner, William . Fauver, Samuel . Fay, Charles A. Fay, Sylvenus A. Featheringill , Alfred . Feeley, William E .. Fehr, Emma ..
Feigley, Mary C.. Fell, Benjamin F. Fellows, Franklin J. Fellows, William H. II Fenz, Frederick .. Ferber, Jacob ...
Fergerson, Joseph.. Fergus, Alexander M. Ferguson, Bettie .. Ferguson, Caswell D. Ferguson, John H. Ferguson, William W. Fernald, James M.
Ferrell, Napoleon B. Ferrier, Daniel T. Ferris, Weston . Ferry, Francis H. Fetterman, George . Feyler, Moses . Field, George H. Field , Jacob A. Field, Michael M. Field, Minna Y. Fienop, Frederick .
Fifield, Mary E. Files, John L. Filkins, Hiram. Fillio , Edmund .

INDEX.

Page.
2366 2638 2030 1711 1483 1614 2082 1627 2583 2328 2238 1795 2591 2446 1515 1967 2039 1478 2761 2028 2717 2250 1536 1580 2040 1910 2171 2707 2375 2472 1950 1539 2235 1946 2740 1673 2090 1928 2404 2400 1638 1561 2351 2511. 2516 1923 2396 1622 1897 2022 1906 2604 2243 2381 1534 1478 2004 1640 2360 1710 1783 2799 2234 2417 2523 1839 2779 2808 2445 1720 1466 2810 2444

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Finch, John ... Findley, Carrie B. Finical, Benjamin F. Finklea, Sarah Emaline. Fish, Edmund... Fish, Lorenzo B. Fish, Samuel .. Fisher, Ambrose R. Fisher, John .. Fisher, Joseph C. Fisher, Thomas C. Fisher, Tobias . Fisher, Willard P Fisher, William T.. Fitch, Everett S. Fitzgerald, Catharine F. Fitzgerald, James E.. Fitzgerald , Patrick.. Fitzpatrick, Matt . Fitzwater, Stephen M. Flaherty, Dennis .. Flanagan, Michael . Flanery, John L.
Fletcher, George W Fletcher, John W Fletcher, Lucius C.
Flick, George W. Flint, Wilbur F. Flint, William H. Flournoy, Silas . Flowers, Kate. Floyd, Jonathan E. Fluegel, William . Flynn, Agnes .. Flynn, Anna . Flynn, James.. Flynn, John. Foale, William R. P. Foard, Mary Ann . Foat, William . Focht, Hiram .
Fogg, George F Foley, Laurence Follin, James M. Foltz, John . Fonda, John G. Foor, Andrew J. Foote, Asa M. Foote, Robert . Forbes, Laura J. Forbes, Similde E. Ford, David .. Ford, Edward . Ford , Eli .. Ford, Ezekiel C.
Ford, Fayette E. Ford, George F. Ford, Gilbert . Ford, James P Ford, Orton D. Foreaker, John W. Forman, Henry H. Fornshell, Frank L.. Fornwalt, Isaac .. Fosdick, Andrew J. Foskett, Liberty W Foster, Almon . Foster, Alonzo . Foster, Charles E. Foster, Charles W. Foster, Dolores S. Foster, Harvey . Foster, Jessie E.

3523
Page.
2603 1553 2083 1513 1969 2328 1883 1763 1513 2656 2594 2331 2148 2560 1656 2244 2777 2199 1705 2672 2267 2770 2791 2124 1955 2241 1651 2121 1616 1860 2593 1776 1664 1676 2298 1819 1493 1517 2783 1575 2674 2636 2025 2196 1708 2138 2780 1568 2768 1435 1972 2082 2515 2693 2719 2163 2426 1564 1510 1569 1503 1804 1960 2579 2128 2732 1502 2645 2668 2360 2274 1896 2146

3524
Pensions Continued . increased - continued . Foster, Joseph W. Foster, Margaret E. Foster, Mary A.. Foster, Mary 0 . Foster, Samuel Foster, Samuel H. Foster, William.. Foulk, Rachel A Fountain, William H. Foutty, Thomas B.
Fowler, George M. Fowler, James W Fowler, Noah C. Fowler, Susan N. Fowlkes, Calvin B Fox, Charles B. Fox, Emily. Fox, Henry Jacob .. Fox. John .. Fox, John Fox, William . Fox, William C. Frahm, August . France, Isaac C.. Francis, George A. Franklin, William H. Franks, Lafayette .. Franz, Jacob.. Fraser, Angus .. Frasier, Francis H. Frayer, Andrew J.. Frazer, George M. Frazier, James .. Frazier, Samuel H. Frederick, Clarissa A. Freeland, Fleming H. Freeman, Edwin .. Freeman, Harmon.. Freeman, Laura M. Freeman, Maitland J. Freeman, Orrin .. Freeman, Susan R. Freeman, William. Freese, Charles J. French, Benjamin .. French, Daniel.. French, Joseph .. French, Lucian W.
Frett, John, jr . Frick, John... Friebele, Frederick . Fried, Richard T.. Friend, Charles H. Frier, Arby. Fritts, William E. Frizelle, Matilda C. Frost , Charles R. Frost, John W. Fuchs, Sebastian . Fuhrman, John L. Fuller, Alden .. Fuller, Alonzo W. Fuller, Daniel. Fuller, Henry A.
Fuller, Joseph... Fuller, Oscar A. Fuller, Sarah Elizabeth .
Fulmer, Harvey J. Fulton, Charles W Fulton, Robert L. Furey, Thomas.. Furlong, William . Furman, Jesse M.

INDEX.

Page.
1689 1779 1867 2671 1436 1822 2497 1560 2736 2291 2318 1903 1831 2262 2774 1838 2303 1889 2270 2396 2200 2186 1754 1970 1484 1747 2231 1855 2684 1745 2759 1740 1500 1913 2341 2180 2142 2019 2670 1485 2528 2194 2776 2452 1699 2512 2063 1919 2333 2189 1892 1639 1716 1881 1703 1937 1927 2528 2524 2045 1846 2694 2544 2766 2119 2763 2587 1669 1578 2197 1784 1485 1650

Pensions-Continued. increased- continued . Fyffe, Willa.. Gaffney, Patrick . Gage, Marshall U. Gage, Theodoric . Gahan, John W. Gain, Lucinda.. Galbraith, Cate F. Galbraith, Sarah F. Galligan, Edward W. Gallion, William R. Galloway, Sarah A
Galloway, Virginia C .. Gamble, Harvey. Gamble, James L... Game, Charlotte .. Gangwer, Stephen .. Gannon, James .. Gardener, George . Gardner, Anna M. Gardner, Asa A. Gardner, Henry G.. Gardner, James H. Gardner, James M. Gardner, Orrin A. A. Gardner, Robert D. Garland, Darius E. Garland, Joseph P. Garland, Rebecca . Garnsey, Francis D. Garrett, Elias W. Garrett, William S. Garrison, Silas . Garrison, William H. Garritt, James M. Garst, Samuel S. Garvey, Dominick . Garvey, Patrick. Gaskey, Andrew J. Gaskill, Eugene , Gaskill, George H. Gaskill, Harvey. Gates, Jonathan F. Gates, Levi.. Gates, Theodore W. Gatewood, Elison .. Gaudineer, Frederick P. Gaunt, Mary Ann.. Gaus, Michael .. Gause, Elmira M. Gautier, William H. Gay, Joel..
Gaylord, George . Gaynor, William . Gearey, George W. Gearkee , Alice.. Geary, Michael J Geduldig, Henry A. Gee, Francis .. Geiger, Jacob A. Gein, Louis H .. Gemmill, John . Gentles, Henry. George, John.. George, Lewis S. George, Zachariah . Gerard, John B .. Gerhardt, Sebastian.. Gersteneker, Jacob W. Getter, Jacob B. Ghrist, Sarah L.. Gibbon, Ellen A.. Gibbons, John.. Gibbs, Richard J.

Page.
2496 2136 1724 2789 2497 1801 1751 1739 2426 1923 2386 1801 2144 2194 2510 2474 1821 2138 1465 2664 1580 1836 2786 2075 2105 2395 2226 1468 2217 2720 1933 2599 2606 1659 1875 2580 1454 2297 1641 1860 1439 1633 2292 2670 2510 2655 1614 2516 2100 2029 2194 1690 1750 1490 1588 2759 2346 1449 1511 2156 1786 1999 2794 1942 1800 1883 2761 1963 2737 2062 1854 1588 2729

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued .
Gibson, Appleton.. Gibson, George .. Gibson, George C.. Gibson, Louisa C... Gibson, Milo G..
Gibson, Timothy H. Gibson, William.. Giffen, John.. Gifford, Lestina M.. Gilbert, John M. Gilbert, Leander. Gilbert, William H. Gilborne, Davis .. Gilbrech, Jacob. Gildersleeve, William H .. Gilham , Henry.. Gillam , Burrell H. Gillam, Daniel W.
Gillem , Mary J. Gillen, Stephen .. Gillespie, Edward . Gillespie, William O. Gilliland, John M .. Gillispie, John E Gilman, Lemuel O. Gilmore, Isaac B. Gilmore, Kate... Gilpatrick, Thomas W. Gilrain, Michael F Gilson, George W.. Ginther, John ... Gipson, William A.. Girdler, Joseph. Girdler, William . Girvan, William J. Glaspie, Andrew P. Glavis, Loucette E. Glazner, Sion B. Glisan, William R. Goble, Mary M... Godwin, William T. Goebel, Christian H. Goebel, Valentine.. Gogin, Richard . Golder, Henry.. Good, Christian M. Good , Henry . Good, Mary A. Goode, Joseph J. Goodell, Edwin R. Goodell, Hiram N. Goodier, John R. Gooding, John .. Goodlander, Henry. Goodrich, Samuel B. T. Goodsell, Jerome .. Goodwin, Emma E .. Gootee, Thomas N.
Gordon, Ephraim A. Gordon, George H.
Gordon, George W. Gordon, Isaac.. Gordon, John Ard . Gorton, Elizabeth . Gough, John F.. Gould, Abbie B. Gould, Elijah G. Grabill, Ira.. Graffam, William T. Graham, Anderson .. Graham, Arthur.. Graham , Ellen R..
VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -59

INDEX.

Page.
1611 1603 2686 2106 1720 2799 1976 2121 1820 2550 2105 1969 2724 2800 1720
.1763 2756 2476 2372 1462 1938 1684 2712 2362 1761 2762 1853 2704 2779 1949 2084 1834 1729 2513 2240 2213 1589 1618 1467 2399 1820 1920 2646 2810 1836 2350 1871 1926 2085 1527 1966 2500 2785 2560 2688 1682 2172 2638 1453 2086 2197 2350 2225 1792 2779 1784 2100 .1733 2672 2518 2642 1478

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued .
Graham , Jacob A .. Graham, James . 1 Gramberg, Mary. Grandaw, William H.. Grandy, Melvin . Grant, John J. Grant, Julia P. Grant, Lewis A. Grant, William.. Grass, Harman .. Graves, Sewell F. Gray, Charles P. Gray, Frank N Gray, James... Gray, Marcena C. S.
Gray, Washington D. Gray, William E. Gray, William S. Grayson, James D. Grayson, John T. Greeley, Almond . Green, Charles .. Green, Ella B.
Green, George K. Green, George S. Green, George W. Green, Hugh .. Green, John.. Green, Louis .. Green, Nathaniel . Green, Philo ... Green, Thomas J. Green, Walter.. Greene, Catharine A..
Greene, Mary. Greene, Walter D. Greenlee, Samuel .
Greer, Benjamin F. Gregg, G. Annie . Gregg, Playford . Gregory, Eleanor . Gregory, Horace A. Gregory, John ... . Grell, Jacob . Grier, Josiah M.. Griese, Wilhelm .
Griffeth, Milton A. Griffin, George W. Griffin, James H.
Griffin, Robert Henderson.. Griffith, David D. Griffith, Thomas . Griffith, Thomas M. Griffith, William F. Grimm, John.. Grimsley, Amelia E.
Grissom, Joseph C .. Griswold, Isaac L... Griswold , Lester M. P. Grizzle, James.. Grogan, Harriet E. Grover, Andrew J. Groves, Andrew H. Grow, William J .. Gude, Alfred . Guile, Charles H. Guiney, Jeannette M. Guion, William R. Guiott, Joseph.. Gunderson, Ole.. Gunselman, Valentine . Gurnee, Jonas ...

3525
Page.
2399 1533 2354 2727 1931 1513 2363 2440 2706 2721 1973 2252 1694 2003 2463 2432 2478 2421 2530 2771 2151 2399 2278 2114 2189 2575 1725 1811 2646 2426 2056 2649 1837 2631 1468 2438 1722 1904 2118 1774 1992 1858 2546 2681 1572 -2192 2058 2373 1802 1761 1631 1743 2536 1872 2493 1880 1708 2653 2714 1766 1671 2280 2578 1501 2106 2178 2503 1747 2059 2727 1904 2460

3526

Pensions Continued.

increased -continued .

Gurney, Ruth B .... Gustus, John ....

Guthrie, Christopher S. " Guthrie, David B ..

Guthrie, Margaret E.

Guy, Henry. Gwin, Isum.. Haack, John..

Hackett, James B.

Hackley, Mary A, Hackney, James F.

Hackney, William H.

Hadley, Weymouth.. Hadsall, John E...

Haferstein, Gottfried .

Hagan, Lawrence . Hagar, Lucas .... Hagenmiller, Herman. Hager, James W.

Hager, John..

Hahn, Henry. Haight, Allen M.

Haines, William.

Hains, Benjamin . Hair, David H.. Haire,, Arthur .

Halbert, Marion F.

Halbert, Mary J.... Hale, William..

Hales, James R..

Haley, Martin . Hall, Anna Frances.

Hall, Henry D.

-#

Hall, James P.

Hall, John B..

Hall, John W.. Hall, Josiah .

Hall, Levi M.

Hall , Mary A.

Hall , Mary C. Hall, Richard B.

Hall, Silas P ..

Hall, William .

Hall, William .

Hall, William M.

Hallenbeck, Cornelius A. Haller, Martha J...

Hallett, Margaret. Hallowell, Martha E.

Ham, Amos...

Ham, John..

Ham, Mark.. Haman, James H.,

Hamenstaedt, Henry V.. Hamill, Priscilla L.. Hamill, Robert L...

Hamilton, John

Hamilton, John ..

Hamilton, Robert . Hamilton , Sherrod .

Hamilton, Thomas .. Hamlen, Alfred M..

Hamman, Philip ..

Hamme, Henry Hammer, Theron..

Hammes, Mathias .

Hammond, Charles ..

Hammond, Frank G. Hammond, Jehial P. Hammond, William..

Hammontree. James E.. Hamre, Albeit J

Hancher, Elizabeth Jane,

INDEX.

Page.
1482 2493 2073 2060 2417 1692 2165 1685 2691 1482 1848 1919 2370 1538 2805 2345 1781 2479 2057 2443 1895 2347 1991 2260 2166 1693 2155 2019 2680 1788 2171 1837 1653 2090 1887 2525 2234 2182 2213 2520 2696 1487 2049 2647 1536 1432 2274 1662 1624 2279 2802 2229 1858 1655 2668 2469 1701 2103 2695 2274 2583 1952
2576 2394 2432 1945 1872 2312 2134 2086 2081 2531 2403

Pensions- Continued . increased- continued. Hancock, Samuel H. Hand, John.. Hand , Lemuel . Hand, Orlando . Hand, William. Haner, Francis. Hanes, Elias... Haney, James M. Hanigan, William E. Hanlon, Timothy . Hann, James .. Hanna, David . ' Hanna, James P. Hanna, Kate E... Hannah, John W. Hannahs, Antoinette. Hanson, Mary. Hanson, Nelson .. Hanson, Theodore H. Hapgood, George W. Harbert, Asa K... Hardester, Josephine . Hardesty, William.. Hardie, Emeline H. Harding, Eliza J. Harding, Samuel J. Hardy, Edwin R.. Hardy, Sylvenus . Hardy, William. Hare, James F. Hare, Joseph, jr. Harelson, Assov. Hares, Henry.. Hargis, John C. L.. Hargrave, Elizabeth P. Hargrave, John R.. Harlan, Christopher C.. Harlan, Samuel W.. Harlan , William A. Harman , Michael.. Harmon, Decatur. Harmon, Eleazer C. Harmony, Leonard . Harrelson, Jasper N. Harrington, Almus .. Harrington, Sarah R. Harris, Andrew J. Harris, George W.. Harris, Heman A. Harris, John G.. Harris, Luther W.
Harris, Overton, E. Harris, Thomas M. Harris, William M. Harris, William T. Harrison, Allamanza M. Harrison, Edson J ... Harrison , Jesse .. Harrison, John. Harrison, Robert G.. Harrison, Thomas.. Harrison, Thomas J. Harrop , Thomas.. Harroun, Susan.. · Harsh, Joseph W. Hart, Amos ... Hart, Edward .. Hart, James S .. Hart, John K. Harte, Daniel J.. Harter, Martin . Hartley, Samuel .. Hartman, Jacob .

Page.
1845 2753 2201 2048 2326 2299 2071 2786 2478 2587 1755 1585 2586 2339 1728 1519 1971 2356 1637 2717 2671 2203 2750 2817 1493 1780 1822 1580 1745 14362731 2302 1902 2599 2741 2545 1715 1980 2402 2640 1719 2038 1495 1899 2211 2468 2710 2298 2176 1609 2633 2746 2132 2475 1685 2103 1721 1569 1977 1840 2341 2675 2712 2543 1991 1761 2125 2513 2187 2364 1758 2160 2482

nsions-Continued . ncreased-continued .
Hartshorn, Dana W. Hartwell, Lorenzo D. Hartzel, James ..
Harvey, Alphonso H. Harvey, David .. Harvey, Ella N Harvey, James G Harvey, John T. Harvey, Samuel . Harvey, William Harvey, William Haskell, Gardiner K. Haskell, Oren D .. Haslam, Jacob B. Hassett, Richard E. Hastie, Robert .. Hastings, Frank S ..
Hastings, Henry.. Hastings, William T. Hatch, Davis W. Hatch, William D Hatfield, John W. Hathaway, Augustus . Hathorn , Arthur .. Hattan, Mary E .. Hatten, Francis M. Hatter, Francis .. Hatton, Jacob L... Hausker, Angel .. Havel, George A.. Havens, James D. Havens, Rolland . Hawes, Amelia M. Hawk, Alfred T. Hawkins, Franklin G. Hawkins, Jacob S .. Hawkins, Lorin N Hayes, Hannah M. Hayes, John E .. Hayes, John H. Hayes, Joshua L.. Hayes, Maurice .. Hayman, James H. Haynes, Margaret . Hays, Daniel.. Hays, Elizabeth T.
Hays, Joseph M.. Hays , William H. Hays, William J.
Hayt, Kathryn G. Hayter, George W. Hayward, Alfred .. Hayward, Frederick E. Haywood, Edmond R. Hazen, John.... Hazlitt, Isaiah H. Head, James G..
Heald, Benjamin F. Healey, Wilhelmina .. Healy, Samuel G.. Heaney, John T. Hearne, William C. Heath, Emma M.. Heath, Horace E. Heath, John .. Heck, Jacob H. Heck, John .. Hecker, John.. Hedgepeth, Lauranah J.. Heiler, Martin.. Heiner, Helen G. Heinrichs, John .. Heinzen, Anton..

INDEX .

Page.
2257 1916 1475 1667 2418 2113 2692 2334 2293 1472 2233 2091 2543 2777 2380 2768 2365 1584 2696 1712 1584 1724 1990 2432 2287 2657 1587 2297 1598 1878 1749 1798 2268 1556 1773 2724 2681 2018 2690 2803 2804 1601 2522 2050 1567 2534 2052 2297 1803 1627 1814 2576 2595 1806 2736 2047 1535 1981 1624 2439 2205 1809 1476 2795 2431 2190 1507 2165 2801 2499 1817 2586 2576

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Helms, Gibson .. Helton, Henry . Helvey, Charles W Helvy, William M. Hempler, Emma . Henderson , Charles W. Henderson, George.. Henderson, John .. Henderson , John E. Hendricks, William . Heney, John C ..
Henning, Stephen J. Henninger, Jacob . Henninger, James F. Hennon, James ..
Henrie, George W. Henry, Anderson . Henry, George W. Henry, John A.. Henry, John N. Henry, John W. Henry, Robert J Hensley, Martha J. Hentig, Laura .... Herald , Samantha E. Herbert, Lemuel .. Hercher, Ferdinand . Hercherberger, Nicholas . Hernandez, Angelina.. Hernandez , Susan E. Herndon, John G. V. Herrick, Wilford .. Herrick, William W. Herridge, Tillman T. Herridge, William C. Herriman , Homer F. Herring, Calvin . Hess, George B. Hess, Sheldon .. Hester, William H. Hetherlin, John T. Hewitt, Isaac B. Hewitt, Thomas L. Hibben, Oliver H. Hibbs, William..
Hickcox, John, jr Hicks, Abram H. Hicks, Edwin .. Hicks, William H. Hierl , George .. Higbie, Abram. Higgins, Edward . Higgins, Edwin L. Higgins, Honora.. Higgins, John J. Higgins, Josiah P. Higgins, Mary E. Hight, Laura G. Higley, Henry W. Hildebrand, Minna .. Hildenbrand , Frederick Hiler, Joseph . Hilkey, William I. Hill, Abram J.. Hill, Amanda L.. Hill, Franklin M.
Hill, George T.. Hill, Henry..
Hill , Henry H. Hill, Ira D. Hill, Irwin M. Hill, Jaraes H. Hill, Moses ..

3527
Page
2332 2560 2470 2807 2810 1730 1876 1796 2417 2026 1988 2600 2325 2394 2161 2242 2433 1585 2552 1840 2092 2673 1754 2129 1765 1620 1927 1612 1460 2567 2322 2714 2671 1708 1877 1755 2742 1960 2516 2044 2404 1648 2746 2150 2120 2758 1774 1912 1502 2631 1977 2113 1762 2581 2490 2300 2371 2593 1785 2203 1749 1453 1508 1617 1565 2066 1708 2778 1634 . 2627 2680 1722 1825

3528
Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Hill, Robert M. C .. Hilliard , James R. Himmel, Margaret.. Hinds, Francis M. Hiner, William R. Hines, James.. Hines, Samuel W. Hinkle, Nathan .. Hinman, Sarah M. E. Hirst, Joseph H. Hirth, John . Hitchcock, Malinda H. Hitchcock, William C. Hite, Francis A ...
Hizar, Aquilla M. Hoag, Ruth M .. Hoaglin, William . Hobart, Henry H. Hobbs, Mary E.. Hoch, John ... Hockley, Thomas B. Hodgdon, Caroline L. Hodge, Elizabeth .. Hodge, Wilbur F .. Hodges, Betsey A. Hodges, Elizabeth. Hodges, Elizabeth A Hodges, Ella A..
Hodges, George H. Hodges, Herrick.. Hodges, Thomas T. Hodges, William C. Hodgman, George W. Hoell George. Hoff. Esek W. Hoff. William D. Hoffman, Martha.. Hoffman, Nancy A. E. Hoffman, Sarah E .. Hoffmann, Lewis . Hoffmeister, Hermann . Hoffner, Frederick . Hogan, Michael .. Hogan, Thomas H.
Hogan, Washington . Hoge, Mary J .. Hoit, Rhoda A. Hoke, Hiram G.. Holbrook, Augustus L. Holcomb, Joshua . Holcomb, Judson H. Holcomb, Martin L. Holden, George.. Holden, Margaret . Holderby, Frank. Holderby, James.. Holland, Alphonso B. Holland, Samuel P .. Holland, Sarah E .. Holland, William . Holle, Mary. Hollett, James F. Holley, John.... Holloway, William E .. Holly, Luther S ..
Holmes, Bartholomew. Holmes, Martin .. Holmes, Virginia J. D. Holmes, Wilson M.. Holsey, John H.. Holt, Isaac J .. Holvenstot , Marion L. Homan, Charles H..

INDEX .

Page.
2349 2028 2228 1982 2095 1694 2637 1773 1938 1696 1924 2501 1509 2045 1884 *2707 1929 1432 2509 2052 2604 2211 2590 2277 2276 2057 2057 2621 1463 1553 1504 2552 2280 2784 2045 2706 1923 2702 2368 1982 2644 2783 2535 2037 1505 1512 2393 1869 2282 2162 2569 2173 1800 2698 2744 2173 1630 1967 1990 1591 2779 1978 2416 2123 1896 2387 2552 2015 2561 2438 1693 1786 2504

Pensions Continued . increased-continued . Honeywell, John G .. Hood, Anna E .. Hook, Andrew L. Hooker, Delia A.. Hoornbeck, Josephine. Hooton, Charles S. M.. Hoover, Evans P. Hoover, James .. Hoover, John S. Hoover, William C. Hope, Margaret A.. Hopkins, Charles . Hopkins, Charles P. Hopkins, Harvey M. D. Hopkins, Stephen D. Hopper, Alvin D. Hopper, William A. Hoppin, Elizabeth D. Horbach, James B. O. Horn, Samuel . Horn, William R.
Hornbeak, John . Horrall, Spillard F. Horton, Benjamin F. Horton, Elisha G. Horton, Henry. Horton, Julia A. Hoskins, Levi .. Hosley, William T. Hostetter, Edmund . Houck, Harmon.. Hough, Samuel . Houghton, Hiram T. Houlihan, Margaret L. Hounsom, Horace.. House, James L.. House, William.. Houser, Frederick . Houser, Manasa T. Houston , James M. Houston, William H. Hovious, Silas B .. Howard, David C. Howard, Harriet . Howard, Isaac . Howard, Isaac M. Howard, James F. Howard, John W. Howard, Loren H. Howard, Martha . Howard, Milton L. Howard, Miranda W. Howard, Thomas .. Howardson, James .
Howe, George P.. Howe, Jacob .. Howe, Jesse W. Howe, John W. Howe, Marion F Howell, Eliza ... Howell, Elizabeth C. Howell, John T .. Howell, Mary M. Howell, William W. Howells, John J .. Howes, Edwin .
Howland , Ora P. Hubbard, Emily P. Hubbard, James F. Hubbard , William H. Hubbell, William R. Hubbs, Warren P .. Hudkins, James P ..

Page.
1733 2426 2609 1652 1743 1457 2105 1628 1441 2209 2023 2360 1914 1544 1714 1756 2137 1736 2304 1803 2585 1798 2155 2765 2169 2200 2682 2602 2174 2387 2183 2034 2322 2267 1562 2387 1565 1498 2282 2648 1843 1440 1844 2001 2107 1955 1876 2322 1599 1917 2630 2747 1725 2391 1539 2509 1990 2634 1540 2478 1694 1626 2731 1764 2096 2013 2152 2123 1636 2699 1494 2532 2357

Pensions- Continued . increased - continued .
Hudson, Ann.. Hudson, Eliza J .. Hudson, Hosea.. Hudson, James D.
Hudson, Thompson H. Hudson, William D.. Huff, Cathrin . Huff, Henry. Huff, William P. Huffman, Alex. 0 . Hughes, Anna E.. Hughes, Eliza A..
Hughes, Henry C .. Hughes, John J.. Hughes, Roseanna.
Hughes, Sterling. Hughes, Thomas.. Hughes, William.. Hughs, Georgia A. Hughson, Edgar B. Hulbert, Helen H .. Hull, Andrew J. Hull, Charles ... Hull, Henrietta . Hull, John..
Hull , Mary M. Hull, Sarah E.. Humble, Henry..
Hummel, George Casper Homan . Humphrey, John W.
Humphreys, Mary W. Humrich, William A. Hunnewell, Sumner F. Hunt, Douglas A.. Hunt, Henry F... Hunt, Hiram G.. Hunt, Jennie R ....
Hunt, Lydia... Hunter, Albert M.. Hunter, Andrew J. Hunter, George B. Hunter, Jonathan M. Hunter, Samuel B .. Huntley, Lorenzo D. Hurst , Elijah Thompson. Husbrook, Artemesia T .. Hussey, Calvin C .... Hutcheson, Nancy Elizabeth .
Hutchins, Margaretta E.. Hutchinson , James.. Hyatt, Joshua E.. Hyatt, Wilson .... Hyde, George W. Hyde, Phineas. Ickes, William . Ickstadt, Joseph . Ihrie, Laura B.. Ingalls, Jeremiah .. Ingebretson, Gunnerus . Ingersoll, Herbert D.. Ingram, Albin L.... Ingram , John .......... Ingram, Orin . Ingram, William. Irvine , Lydia .. Irwin, Adelle D.
Irwin, Edward.. Irwin , George W. Isaacs , Alfred S. Isaacs , Burgess N. Isaacson, Lars.. Isbell , William H. Isom , Susan H ..

INDEX.

Page.
2747 2184 2621 1769 2462 2452 2258 2507 2397 2072 2413 2532 2632 1681 2242 2034 1885 1586 2036 1908 1718 1604 1719 2353 1954 1557 1857 2428 2254 2399 2620 2151 1715 2191 1486 2097 2599 2792 1573 1858 1554 2193 2734 1838 1443 2005 2126 2252 2181 1709 2549 1492 2120 2219 2149 2736 1938 1458 1646 1909 1571 2566 2282 2494 2741 1648 1502 2470 1588 2804 2753 2398 1815

Pensions-Continued . increased- continued . Israel, Susan E.. Ivans, William.. Ivers, William.. Ivey, Mary J.. Jackman, Jesse . Jackson, Andrew. Jackson, Charles.
Jackson, Henry C .. Jackson, Lydia B. Jackson, Mary A. Jackson, Samuel. Jackson, Solomon . Jackson, Thomas C.. Jackson, Wiley H.. Jackson , William.. Jackson , William Jacobs, Hannah R. Jacobs, James ... Jacobs, John T.
Jacobs, Mary E. Jacoby, John ..
James, Benjamin.. James, Hezekiah .. James, John H..
James, Margaret L. James, Morris J.. Jameson, Nelson W. Jandro, William.. Janes, Lewis C... Janney, George L.. Jaquith, George L. Jared, James M.. Jarvis, Andrew. Jarvis, Lewis M. Jarvis, Noah... Jasnowski , Saturnin . Jasper, Charles H.. Jayne, Joshua S .. Jean, Derias Thomas . Jefferis, Anna M... Jefferson, David E. Jellison, Joshua T. Jenkins, James M. Jenkins, Robert .. Jenkins, Rosa Olds . Jenkins, William... Jenkins, William. Jensen, Franz Z. F. W. Jepson, Frances A. Jester, Samuel..
Jewett, Henry C .. Johannes, Mary P. John, Robert ...
Johnson, Akey C .. Johnson, Benjamin F. Johnson, Bertha Maria. Johnson, Darwin .. Johnson, David B. Johnson, Edmund . Johnson, Elias... Johnson, George A. Johnson, Hannibal A. Johnson, Hautville A. Johnson, Henry .. Johnson, Henry B. Johnson, Henry C. Johnson, Henry L. Johnson, Isaac .. Johnson, Jerry . Johnson, John . Johnson, Lydia A. Johnson, Marquis L. Johnson, Marshall .

3529
Page.
1659 2784 2643 2133 2506 2061 2127 2035 1517 2690 2286 1926 1879 2508 2330 2475 2100 1862 1905 2737 1746 2753 2495 2787 2756 1746 2745 1852 2265 1723 1651 2074 2562 2792 2446 2158 1728 2626 2043 1754 2790 2709 2267 2440 2422 2444 2549 2517 2271 1574 2622 1662 2325 1510 2615 2745 2036 2121 -2788 1738 2323 2591 1918 2025 2739 . 1660 2233 2687 2398 2128 2116 1735 2444

3514
Pensions- Continued. increased - continued. Bartley, Elizabeth. Bartley, Valentine . Barton, John W.. Barton, Marvin F Bass, Martha J.... Batchelder, Nellie A Batchelor, Frances Ann . Bateman, Joseph.. Bates, Archibald .. Bates, Edwin D Baublitz, Samuel F Bauer, August. Bauerlin, Henry. Baum, Thomas J. Bayless, Daniel B. Bayley, Thomas . Bayley, Virgil A. Beach, Franklin B.
Beachey, William C. Beale, Joseph H. Beall , Alphenis M Beam, Van Buren. Bean, Benjamin F. Bean, Walter F Beard , George W. Beardsley, Mary L Bearss, Levi .. Beatty, John.. Beatty, Robert .. Bechtol, Catharine . Becker, Frances . Becker, Margaret . Becker, Martin .. Bedell, Henry E. Bedford, Leah. Bedient, George W. Beebe, Alva .. Beeks, William L Beeler, Louis F.. Beeny, George W. Beery, Marinda D. Beesley, Martha L. Beham, Alfred .. Behrens, Fredrich . Behymer, John ... Beier, Julius .. Belden, Lewis F. Belden, Perry F. Belding, Jennie F. Belk, Lizzie... Bell, Charles A. Bell, Edward W. Bell, James H. Bell , John ... Bell, Theresia.. Bell, William W. Bellomy, Matthew H. Bender, Jacob ... Benedict, William W. Benham, Emma H. Benham, Joseph R. Benjamin, David C. Benkler, William . Bennett, Ary S .. Bennett, Henry S. Bennett, Howard . Bennett, John P.
Bennett, Lloyd D.. Bennett, Mary E.. Bennett, Morris . Bennett, Phebe J Bennett, Philander. Bennett, Siotha ..

INDEX .

Page.
2095 1861 1914 2416 2058 1973 1513 2616 2640 2380 1932 1742 2554 2177 2457 2545 2098 2137 1455 1839 1740 2086 1430 1909 1645 2274 1436 1936 2069 1656 2202 1735 2649 1456 2159 1669 2182 1443 2361 2764 2714 2106 1857 1632 2172 1972 2491 2060 2104 1704 2707 2014 2354 2698 2384 2633 2002 2288 1545 1531 2580 2447 1638 2622 2147 2303 2778 1875 1749 1435 1494 1607 1717

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued . Bennett, William T. Bennett, William W. Bennington, Albert . Bennum, Henry O .. Benson, Andrew J. Benson, Charles M..
Benson, Le Roy.. Benton, Theodore M.
Bentz, Rudolph.. Beranek, Francis A. Bergen, John S .. Berkey, John M.
Berkley, Riley J Berry, Jacob.. Berry, James T.
Berry, John C.. Berry, Louisa . Berry, William H. Bethel, Nancy .
Bethurum, David . Betts, Ann.. Betts, Sarah . Betz , Peter.. Beulen, James H.
Beyer, Hillary.. Beymer, George N. Bibb, Benjamin F. Bickford , Sarah M. Bickford, Sylvester..
Biddle, John .. Biederman, Frank J .. Bierer, John.. Bierly, Frederick. Bietry, Pauline . Biffar, Francis A .. Bigalow, Nelson.. Bigelow, Benjamin Franklin . Bigger, Samuel P.. Bigler, Eleanor P.. Billing, Edwin ... Billings, Martha A. Billings, Myron E.. Billingsley, James D. Bingham, Anna C .. Bingham , Lorin R. Binkley, William G. Bird , Edward .... Birge, Julia A. Birmingham, William . Birthright, Louisa J. Bisbee, Watson F.. Bishop, Charles E. Bishop , Levi C... Bishop, Mary C. Bishop, Mary H. Bishop, Menzo S. Bishop, Thomas E. Bishop, Victoria . Bissell, James E. Bittleston , Henry. Bivans, Robert .. Bixby, Edmund W. Blacker, Charles . Blair, George.. Blair, George W.
Blair , Hugh . Blair, James T. Blair, William.. Blake, Albert S. Blake, Evans . Blakney, Thomas. Blancett, Robert . Blanchard , Helen M.

Page.
2715 2312 2728 2674 1719 1828 2628 2275 2244 1924 2769 1504 2576 2677 1429 2348 2763 2447 2447 2600 1476 2524 1644 1570 2228 2605 1566 2636 2642 1866 2493 1444 .1710 2099 2802 2283 1552 1668 2730 1625 2246 1500 1706 1957 1647 2298 2726 2684 1432 2247 2771 1636 1793 1644 2788 2709 1692 1704 2754 2708 1890 1887 2585 1688 2277 2305 2806 1727 1640 1887 2040 1990 1459

Pensions- Continued . increased--continued .
Blanchard, John W. Blanchard, Thomas T. Blanchard, William T. Bland, Theodore ... Blanding, James D. Blanding, Sallie E.. Blaney, Anna V.. Blanton, John A.. Bledsoe , James P. Bledsoe, Relf.. Bleekman, Adelbert E. Blessing, John G.. Blethen, Mary R .. Blewett, William E.. Blinn, John L.. Bliss, Cornelius E. Bliss, James W.. Block, Carl W. Blodgett, Ethan . Blodgett, Laura A. Bloomer, Daniel .. Blossom, William A.
Blye, Warren A.. Blyth, Thomas. Bode, William..
Bodenhamer, George W. Bodkin , Elizabeth . Bodley, Levi N .. Boepple, Nathalia. Bogan, Patrick.. Boger, Ernest....
Boger, Joseph R. Boggs, Albert W. Boggs , Oliver S. Bogia, Benjamin D. Bogue, Michael.. Bohannan, Martha L. Bohn, Christopher.. Bokart, John ...
Bole, Henry D. Bolen, Enoch .. Boles, William T. A. H.
Bolinger, Benjamin .. Bolles, Enoch.. Bolshaw, Joseph. Bolster, David P. Bolt, Larsey... Bolt , Martha Jane .
Boltz, Ephraim M. Bond, James .. Bone, William H. Boney, George H. Bonham, Marie G. Bonner, Elizabeth A.
Bonynge, Margaret . Bookhammer, Mary E. Bookman , John W .. Boon, Robert .. Boone, Annie L. Booth, John W. Booth, William. Boshea, Alexander .
Bostwick, Joseph I.. Boswell, Mima A.. Bosworth, Thomas .
Botner, Benjamin.. Botsford, Edwin A .. Bottoms, William F. Botts, Columbus.. Bouden, Asher S. Boughman, Daniel..
Boughner, George W. Boulton, William H.

INDEX.

Page.
2096 1894 2338 2372 1623 2092 2714 2158 2602 2668 2382 1653 1537 1490 1814 2744 2319 1584 1602 1503 1748 1806 1572 1773 1603 19231890 1615 2131 2614 2501 2462 2616 2712 1986 2453 2742 1779 1526 2577 1621 2022 2369 2427 2282 1482 2207 2143 2508 2398 2316 2780 1608 2738 2067 2570 1753 1442 2606 2533 2717 2398 1616 2109 2028 1800 1776 1691 2065 1605 1866 2533 2470

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued . Bourke, William C.. Boush, Sarah A...
Bovee, Joseph.. Bovee, Nicholas A.. Bowen, Caleb T. Bowen, David .. Bowen, John ... Bowker, Joseph C. Bowles, John E... Bowles, William A. Bowman, Benson H.
Bowman, Henry Z.. Bowman, James .. Bowman, Polly Ann .. Bowser, Thomas J. Boxmeyer, Charles . Boyd, George S .. Boyd, John N ... Boyd, Samuel ..
Boyden, Elbridge P. Boyer, Jonathan J.. Boyle, Elizabeth B. Boyle, Enoch .
Boyle, George A.. Boyles, George W. Boynton, Eli.. Bozarth, Abram J. Bradberry, John H.
Bradbury, Augustus F. Bradbury, Charles A.. Braden, Miner L. Brader, Levi .. Bradfield , Zachariah . Bradford, John .. Bradish, Albert H. Bradley, George M. Bradley, John.. Bradley, Nathan C. Bradley, Robert O. Bradshaw, Silas N. Brady, Mathias . Brady, Michael . Brady, William H. Brady, William H .. Bragg, Benjamin .. Bragg, Catherine E. Brail, George G.. Brainard , Eli .. Brake, Robert..
Braman, Henry T.. Bramel, Thomas .. Branam , William T. Brand, James S... Brandau, Robert . Brandon , Matthew H. Brandt, Jesse H.. Brannon, Margaret . Branson , Alfred .. Brant, Ellen M. Branyan, Joseph J. Braselton, William A. Brawner, George W. Brazelton, Eli.. Breazeale, Frank . Breckenridge, Samuel M. Breckenridge, William C. Breden, John ... Brenizer, Henry . Brenton, Oliver. Brewer, Horatio S. Brewer, William I. Brewerton, Sidney S. Brewster, George...

3515
Page.
1924 1481 2122 2344 2145 2337 2713 2684 2572 2115 1852 2275 2494 2809 1956 2445 2340 1742 2763 2494 1529 2314 2054 2692 1830 2329 1754 2197 1627 1445 1869 2250 1504 2210 2178 1542 2304 1624 2502 1472 1873 1451 1778 2731 2506 1878 1606 1692 2772 1541 1488 1869 2024 2154 2080 1986 2228 2371 1718 2567 1998 2462 1529 2522 2720 1450 1514 2035 1658 2679 1956 1918 2122

3516
Pensions-Continued. increased- continued . Briant, Charles C... Brick, Mary A.. Brickett, George E. Bridaham, John G. Bridge, Gifford M. Bridges, William.. Bridwell, Ezekiel . Briggs, Erastus W Briggs, Minerva.. Briggs, Wells..
Brigham, Sidney S. Brink, Andrew. Brinkley, John .. Brinton, George W. Brisco, Martha J .. Bristol, Dora T. Bristol , James Edward . Britton, Daniel.. Broad, John .. Broadway, John H. Broadwell , John A Brockman, Washington .. Brockway, Sue A.. Brodowski, Theophil .. Brody, James ... Bronson, Emmagene. Brooks, Alphonso . Brooks, Asa G.. Brooks, John D. Brooks, John H.. Brooks, Joseph . Brooks, Martha. Brothers, John T. Brough, Charles M. Broughton, John .. Brown, Abby L... Brown, Abraham S. Brown, Adeline .
Brown, Agnes E.. Brown, Ahijah . Brown, Alexander . Brown, Alphonso . Brown, Asail . Brown, Bryant.. Brown, Charles D. Brown, Darius J. Brown, Elisha .. Brown, Elisha . Brown, Ezra H. Brown, Francis G.. Brown, Francis L. Brown, Georgia D. Brown, Hamilton D. Brown, Harvey C .. Brown, Helen S. Brown, Henry .. Brown, Henry W. Brown, Horace E.. Brown, Howard... Brown, James A. M. Brown, James F. Brown, James J. Brown, James M Brown, James N.
Brown, James Thompson. Brown, Jasper N.. Brown, Jerome L..
Brown, Jerusha Hayward . Brown, John... Brown, John .. Brown, John C. Brown, John F. Brown, John L..

INDEX .

Page.
1734 2405 1430 2270 2773 1962 1960 2094 1447 1469 1438 2474 1480 2580 1560 2540 2501 1773 1776 2097 1846 2134 2724 2371 1470 2367 1665 2206 2357 2260 2793 1760 1844 2441 2076 2424 1822 2808 2558 1576 2464 2805 2617 2097 1841 1515 2212 2326 2014 2721 1581 1653 1960 1643 1984 1606 2183 1677 2346 1508 2060 2117 2349 2141 1874 2505 2168 1638 1854 2588 2283 2161 2331

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued.
Brown, John R... Brown, Margarette E.. Brown, Mary E .. Brown, Milton .. Brown, Samuel . Brown, Talcott M .. Brown, Thaddeus C. S. Brown, Thomas.. Brown, Thomas J.
Brown, Washington M. Brown, William.. Brown, William A. Brown, William H. Brown , William H. Brown, William H Brown, William H. Browne, John .. Bruce, David.. Bruce, Winfield S. Bruder, John M.... Brumm, Charles .. Brummett, George W. Brundage, Nehemiah M.. Brunell, Joseph, sr... Bruner, George.. Brunson, Susan M. Brunson, William N. Brusie, Eliza.. Bryan, John A .. Bryant, Abby J. Bryant, James A. Bryant, James C. Bryant, John .. Bryson, Cynthia M. Bucey, Jesse.. Buchanan, Emma F. Buchanan, John N. Buchanan, Nathaniel. Buchmann, Peter.. Buck, Alexander..
Buck, Argyle Z .. Buck, Bowman H. Buck, Charles M. Buck, Nathaniel Y. Buckland, Lee H .. Buckley, James.. Buckley, John M. Buckner, David .. Buckthal, Herman . Budden, George .. Buehrle, Frederick. Buffington, Jeremiah. Buffington, John J. Buffon, Hugh P. Bugbee, Orange. Buggie, James. Buice, Eliza M.. Bullard, Henry M .. Bullard, James M Bullard, Jane E.. Bullock, Rutson J. Buncher, Frank. Bunker, Eliza A Bunting, Eli... Burdick, Franklin ..
Burger, Henry K. Burgess, Benjamin F. Burgess, Charles W. Burgess, Harriet U. Burgess, James S.. Burgess, Noel J .. Burgess, William T. Burget, Aaron J .......

Page.
1825 1944 2663 2611 2350 2592 2047 1907 2775 2568 1907 2574 1548 1786 2713 2803 2174 1700 1810 2523 2488 1591 1855 1555 1584 2377 2818 2427 2025 2474 2131 2070 2522 2753 1783 2577 . 1753 1567 2628 2609 1815 2593 2651 2555 1452 1814 1484 1935 2065 1802 2705 2498 1648 1542 2087 1555 2092 2437 2415 1681 2318 1519 1766 2348 2137 2572 1930 2603 2771 2034 1930 2020 1854

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Burk, Patrick ..... Burke, Bartholomew Burke, Jeremiah .. Burke, John.... Burke, John ..
Burket, Marquis De Lafayette Burkhardt, Jacob R.. Burks, William F. Burleigh, Charles H. Burlingame, Anna F. Burlock, Samuel J.. Burnet, Edward G. Burnett, William F. Burnham, Martha L. Burns, John ... Burns, John.. Burns, Oliver J. Burns, Peter.. Burns, William H. Burns, William H Burns. William N. J.
Burr, Mary L........... Burroughs, Mary J .. Burt, Charles C. Burtch, Edward . Burton, George W. Burton, Henry B. Burton, John N. Burton, John W. Busbee, Elizabeth B
Busby, James M.. Bush, Jefferson .. Bush, Thomas.. Buskirk, John V Bussell , John B. Bussey, David .. Butler, Albert.. Butler, Elizabeth A. Butler, James .. Butler, James T.
Butler, Mary E. C. Butler, Odom... Butts, Jacob B. Buxbaum, Julius .. Buxton , John M
Buzzell, George W. Buzzell, Henry H. Byers, John M.. Byles, Einma.. Bynon, William H. Byrd, Thomas J..
Byrne, Sylvester. Cadieux, Joseph N. Cadmus, Sarah E..
Cadwell, Harry C..
Cage, Josephine M. Cahoon, Benjamin B. Cain, Isaac .
Cain, James.. Cain, John.. Caldwell, Alexander.
Caldwell, Joseph F. Calhoun, Edgar W. Call, Robert P.. Callaghan , Richard . Callahan, Jeremiah.. Callahan, Martin.. Callaway, Albert L.. Callender, John R .. Callon, James B. F. Calor, Pleasant .. Calvert, Agnes E.. Calvin . Archibald H. R.

INDEX.

Page.
1837 2766 2767 2041 2800 1577 2348 1764 1624 2492 1659 2694 2712 2648 1608 1793 2532 1642 2378 2208 1910 1835 2358 2448 2792 1774 1633 2201 1668 1803 1686 2285 1481 2562 2082 2171 1941 1789 2380 1695 2778 2178 2516 1897 2463 2582 2722 2160 2208 1581 2093 2699 2385 2547 2654 1760 1898 2499 1663 2091 2077 1616 1698 2343 2234 1678 1722 1851 2683 2356 1906 2568 2475

Pensions -Continued . increased-continued . Campbell , Albert H..
Campbell, Angus. Campbell, Gabriel .
Campbell, Henry. Campbell , James W. Campbell , John .. Campbell, John P. , No. 2 . Campbell, Mahala F. Campbell, Martha S. Campbell , Mary J.. Campbell, Peter.. Campbell , Priscilla A. Campbell, Samuel .. Campbell, Susan.... Campbell, Thomas D. Campbell, William D. Campbell, William J. Canary, Abraham I .. Canasco, Juan............ Canfield, Byron .. Canfield, Charles M. Canfield, Levi A. Canfield, Luther H. Cannedy, Martin V. Cannell, Sarah E .. Canova, Andrew. Cantine, Nicholas S. Capron, Gilbert F. Carder, Thomas Carel, Frederick . Carey, Francis .. Carey, Thomas F. Carley, James M. Carlisle, William N. Carll, Samuel P. Carlton, Samuel E. Carney, Robert . Carothers, Louisa M. Carpenter, Anna K. Carpenter, Charles W. Carpenter, Curtis A. Carpenter, David A. Carpenter, Edward L .. Carpenter, Elizabeth T. Carpenter, Ellen .. Carpenter, James, jr . Carpenter, John Carpenter, John .. Carr, Anson K.. Carr, George T. B. Carr, Henry C .. Carr, Jonathan . Carr, Louisa.. Carr, Samuel V. Carr, William .. Carroll, John M. Carroll, Mary Rebecca . Carroll, William A.. Carruth, Alexander W. Carter, Charles.. Carter, Henrietta G.. Carter, Horatio .. Carter, Isaiah.. Carter, Thomas W. Carter, William W. Carter, Zadick.. Cary, William . Casavaw , Joseph
Case , Cyrus S .. Case, Emma.. Casey, Andrew. Casey, Henry W. Casey, Joshua B.

3517
Page.
2343 2034 2448 2279 2534 2350 1551 2133 1701 1551 2793 2326 2254 2184 1965 2353 1590 2053 1995 2284 2675 2164 2667 1732 2303 2522 2625 1474 1720 2443 1527 1818 1815 2647 1578 1913 2114 2546 1840 2395 1446 1523 2395 1460 2430 2437 1840 2628 1521 1564 1808 1600 2118 2550 1634 2111 2507 2181 2108 2381 2202 1454 2651 2150 2027 1801 1968 2808 2030 2786 2406 2804 2366

3518
Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Cash, Marcellus .. Caskey, James T. Casper, John F .. Cassady, James . Cassidy, John H. Cassle, George W. Castlow, William J. Castner, Algernon E. Castor, George E.. Caswell , Oscar B. Caswell, Stoddard . Cate, Lewis H. Catterson, Robert F. Cauley, John R .. Cavanaugh, Dominick . Cavanaugh, John C .. Caverly, John .. Cero, Eli .. Chacey, Peter P. Chagnon , William . Chamberlain, Aaron . Chamberlain, Abijah. Chamberlain , Samuel E Chamberlin, Cutler A Chamberlin, Emma M. Chamberlin, George F. Chamberlin, Simon E Chambers, George.. Chambers, Martha E. Chambers, William E. Chandler, John M .. Chandler, Joseph, jr.. Chandler, Lewis P. Chandler, Thomas . Chandler, William. Chapman, Charles E. Chapman, Charles T. Chapman, Clinton A. Chapman, Dewitt C .. Chapman, Edmund Chapman, James R.. Chapman, Levi .. Chapman , Mary C .. Chapman, Nathan D. Chapman, Thomas . Chapman, William H. Charles, Charles H. Chase, Daniel S .. Chase, George C... Chase, John A. Chase, John W. Chase, Melissa. Chase, Seth ... Chase, Thomas M Chase, William E Chauncey, Sarah A. Cheevers, John M.. Chelf, Simeon D. Cheney, Thomas P. Chenoweth, William J. Cherry, Mary O .. Chesebro, George W. Chilcote, Alfred B .. Childers, George W. Childress, Rufus G.. Childs, Earl K... Chipman , James F. Chrisler, Nicholas .. Christian, Paul J. Christie , Susan F. Christman, John H. Christoff, John ...
Christopherson, Christopher...

INDEX .

Page.
2705 1911 2468 1624 1512 2584 1430 2327 2643 1615 2755 1486 1455 2656 1656 1574 1946 2159 1446 2635 2542 1820 1439 1553 2642 2692 2749 1943 1753 2104 2233 1665 2033 1704 1569 1846 2632 1705 2653 1739 2328 2297 2072 2321 1807 1968 2158 2169 1506 2704 2089 1481 2377 2688 2794 1605 2459 2295 2285 1613 2738 1758 1856 1962 1719 2292 1965 1678 2456 2382 2404 1456 2284

Pensions -Continued . increased - continued . Christy, William D.
Chubb, Henry. Church, Byard H Church, Charles . Church, Hannah C .. Church, Kate S ... Churchill, William H. Claiborne, Thomas . Clapp, Charles H..
Clapper, Henry .. Clapper, Richard E Clark, Aaron K. Clark, Adolphus P. Clark, Albert Richard . Clark, Alice G. Clark, Burr.. Clark, Erastus C. Clark, Franklin D. Clark, Frederick W Clark, Gilbert W. Clark, Hiram C. Clark, Isaac G. Clark, Jerome B. Clark, Job .. Clark , John Clark, John Clark, John J. Clark, John L. Clark, Joseph H. Clark, Joshua J. Clark, Laura... Clark, Louisa A. Clark, Martin .. Clark , Mary.. Clark, Silas G. Clark, Thomas . Clark, Wilbur H. Clark, William J. Clarke, William A. Claunch, Elias ... Clay, Cornelia W Clayton, Holmes . Cleaveland , Esther A. Cleavenger, Minor.. Clegg, Doris F. Clendenin, Frank. Clendening, William F. Cliborne, John F. G... Clifton, John L.... Cline, Jacob.. Cline, Peter..
Cline, Philipp Clinkscales, William F. Clinton , Christopher.. Clobridge, Selden C .. Cloe, Emile ... Clother, Asa J. Cloud, Abby B. Clough, William . Cluck, Albert G. Cluley, John F. Coad, James C .. Coates, John W. Coats, R. Smith . Cobb, Cate E ..
Cobb, Cyrus W. Cobb, Felix G. Cobb, Harlan P. Coburn, Mary. Cochran, John S. Cochran, William H. Cochrane, Irene A .. Cody, Gabriel...

Page.
2066 2070 1706 2670 2135 2488 2798 1824 2695 2582 2379 2054 2716 1605 2273 2597 2146 1868 2075 2610 2116 2257 2644 2613 1744 2541 2544 1650 2588 2132 1505 .2140 1943 1957 2429 1616 2260 2607 2758 1728 2697 2281 2316 2542 1818 1894 2663 2567 2181 2084 1629 1600 2379 1436 1675 2332 2595 2062 1712 1684 1614 2225 2196 2430 1726 2280 2548 1947 1691 2492 2736 1486 1932

Pensions- Continued . increased - continued . Coffey, John L... Coffin, Griffin A.
Coffin, Henry C. Coffman, Daniel M. Coffman, Victor H. Cohen, Stephen D .. Coker, John... Colby, Abram P. Colby, William M. Colding, James L. Cole, Burgess.. Cole, Charles L.. Cole, Clarke S .. Cole, George W. Cole, Lucy.. Cole, Norman H. Cole, Robert.. Cole, Seymour.. Cole, Theodore. Colegate, William H. Coleman, Clara P. Coleman, David B. Coleman, John , jr . Collett, Dier.. Collier, George W. Collins, Henry E.. Collins, Isaiah . Collins, James .. Collins, Kemenskio A. N. L .. Collins, Martha J Collins, Milton S. Colson, William () . Colton, Francis .. Colvin , William . Combs, Henry D. Combs, William W. Comer, Michael.. Comstock, Franklin . Conant, A. Judson . Conant, Etta D..
Conant, Henry A. Congdon, Caroline W. Conine, Charles.. Conine, Fanny L. Conklin, George .. Conley, Carrie. Conley, Charles H. Conley, John A... Conn, James L... Connelly, Edmund T. Conner, William D. Connery, Charles F. Connor, John... Conover, Daniel S. Conrad, James M. Converse, James E.. Conway, Silas P. Conwell, William .
Conyngham, John R .. Cook, Adam... Cook, Eunice .. Cook, George W. Cook, John . Cook, John.. Cook, John T..! Cook, Joseph F. Cook, Lutellus .. Cook, Nelson .. Cook, Newton G.. Cook, Philip .. Cook, Pleasant W. Cook, Samuel .
Cook, Sidney H.

INDEX.

Page.
1974 2754 1912 1744 2455 1607 2143 2279 2538 2556 1690 2610 2489 2686 2508 2326 2561 1687 2175 2107 2709 2069 1684 2235 1626 2471 1688 2640 1489 2450 2293 1548 1941 2247 2656 2084 1619 2630 2789 1700 2223 2529 1636 1886 1838 1771 1717 1622 2465 1543 2071 2578 1661 2209 1636 2551 2031 2627 2260 1620 2982 2/08 1537 1756 1767 2195 1788 1823 1859 1961 2032 2275 2150

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Cook, Stephen H. S .. Cook, Thomas H.. Cook, William....
Cool, Benjamin H.
Cooley, Adolphus . Cooley, Franklin .... Cooley, George L.. Cooley, Henrietta C .. Cooley, Marius S. Coomer, Justus B. Cooney, Patrick . Cooper, Alonzo .. Cooper, John ..
Cooper, Joseph J. Cooper, Nathaniel . Cooper, Seth H .. Cooper, William T. Coover, Samuel E. Copher, Reuben.. Coppage, Joseph W. Corbin, Daniel O. Cordner, Albert D.
Corey, George L.. Corley, William B. Cornell, Nelson.... Corner, Watson L. Cornett, Clark.
Cornman, Phillip W. Corns, Mary T. Cornwell, John S. Corsine, Calvin ..
Corwin, Quincy. Cosgro, James C . Cosgrove, Carrie E. Cosgrove, James W. Cotton, John R..
Coughanour, George W. Coughlin, John .. Coulson, Saul . Coulter, John A. Coulton, Andrew J. Counter, Octave....
Countryman, Joseph . Counts, Mary A. Courter, William J Covell, Thomas G. Cowan, Campbell .. Cowan, Garrett F.
Cowan, Henry R.. Cowan, John .. Coward, Nathan . Cowell, James L. Cowell, Oscar N. Cowgill, Alexander M. Cox , Columbus ..
Cox, Hartley B. Cox, Hugh M. Cox , James B. Cox , James D. Cox, Joanna L. Cox, Wesley G. Coy, Edward .. Coyle, John B. Crabtree, Job B. Craig, Daniel . Craig, Franklin . Craig, John B. Craig, Thomas C. Craighton, Solomon . Craigo, Margaret E. Cramer, Andrew. Cramer, Peter.... Crampton, David F.

3519
Page.
2455 2527 1696 2043 2526 1998 1638 2711 1912 2447 2713 2230 2503 1566 1522 1930 2708 2452 2588 1891 2330 1658 2713 2570 2547 2734 2017 1511 2012 2504 2208 1870 2798 2504 2495 1620 1855 1972 2363 1512 1654 1856 2654 2124 2550 1690 2568 2734 1964 2557 1787 1448
2453 2206 2021 . 2584 1767 2538 2319 2045 1466 2267 2247 1880 2682 1746 1780 2262 2706 2601 2211 1837

3520
Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Crandall, Thomas P. Crandell, Henry.. Crandol, James .. Crane, John H .. Crane, John W. Crane, William. Crane, William B. Cranston, William H.
Cravens, Benjamin B. Cravens, John O .. Crawford, Anthony H. Crawford, Emery. Crawford, Francis M.. Crawford, John ....... Crawford, Robert B. Creager, John W. Creasey, George W. Crecelius, Clark .. Crismon, Charles . Crissip, Pleasant . Crites, William H. Crittenden, Frank. Crockett, William G.. Croft, James E.. Crofton, Ann H. Crome, William . Cromer, Richard S. Crommett, Francis W. Crooker, Jacob P. Crooks, William .. Cross, Lemuel . Cross, Levi E .. Cross, Maria . Cross, Theron .. Crossman, Greenleaf W. Crouch, David F. Crouch, William H.. Crow, Allen.. Crowe, Charles E. Crowell, John H.. Crowley, John .. Crowley, Thomas . Crozer, James G. Crum, William A. Cuendet, Julius S .. Culberson, Sherwood F. Culbertson , Otho E. D. Culins, Peter M.. Cullen, Michael . Culver, Charles H. Cummin, William E. Cummings, William . Cummings, William G ..
Cummins, Joseph D. Cundiff, Stephen .. Cunningham, Edward R. Curley, Patrick.. Curnutt, John H. Curran, William . Currier, Aaron T. Currier, Marcus M. Currier, Theodore S. Curry, Oliver. Curtis, Elijah . Curtis, Joseph A. C. Curtis, Levi E. Curtis, Levi W. Curtis, Oren D. Cushing, Andrew J. Cushing, Martha G. Cusick, Lizzie B. Custer, William A. Cutler, John D ..

INDEX.

Page .
2080 1694 2044 1709 2668 2472 2398 1440 2726 2773 1538 2327 2023 1961 2238 1809 1793 2648 1833 2400 1437 1700 1628 2419 2130 1545 1696 2272 2687 2464 2125 1642 2538 2584 2381 2061 2141 2155 1582 1494 2388 1993 2776 2506 2142 2037 2796 1866 2669 1706 2428 1799 2665 2173 2110 2273 1608 2341 2695 1483 2432 2078 2473 2088 1871 2549 2677 2472 2367 1501 1933 2098 1935

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued .
Dachrodt, Jacob.. Dagenfield, Mary. Dailey, George M. Dailey, Samuel . Dailey, Thomas . Daley, John W. Dallman, Thomas G .. Daly, James C .. Daly, Richard C. Dalzell, John K.. Damm, Henry..
Danforth, George L.. Daniel , Mary A... Danieldson, August . Daniels, Aaron. Daniels, Clara E.. Daniels, Joseph .. Daniels, Myra R. Daniels, Thomas W Danley, Andrew D. Darby, George W. Darling, Delphine .. Darling, La Forrest C .. Daughenbaugh, Jonathan . Daughenbaugh, Samuel M. Daugherty, Lewis L.. Davenport, Abram W. Davenport, Mary E.. Davenport, Mary L.. Davey, Henry.. David, Ferdinand : Davidson, David L.. Davidson, Eliza .. Davidson, James M. Davidson, Lucinda.. Davies, Thomas J.. Davis, Barlow...
Davis, Christopher C ... Davis, David .. Davis, Dennis A... Davis, Elizabeth . Davis, Franklin H. Davis, Henry C.. Davis, Henry H. Davis, James.. Davis, James M. Davis, John G.... Davis, John W..
Davis, Joseph.. Davis , Julius A... Davis, Lewellen T.. Davis, Lewis F. Davis, Lucretia. Davis, Marcus.. Davis, Moses . Davis, Moses B .. Davis, Newton S .. Davis, Philena ... Davis, Philo E.. Davis, Richard E. Davis, Samuel B.. Davis, Samuel H.. Davis, Samuel L.. Davis, Stephen M.. Davis, Susan E ... Davis, Temperance . Davis, Theodore T. Davis, Thomas C.. Davis, Thomas J. Davis, William Davis, William Davis, William Davis , William F.

Page.
1608 1939 2014 2195 2085 1947 2563 2290 1792 1998 2458 2711 2369 1888 2263 2771 2430 1925 2575 1957 1777 2420 1656 1670 2228 1571 1726 1472 1799 1899 2331 1528 1898 2556 2553 1663 2301 2137 1727 1492 1448 2758 2641 2488 2352 2139 1726 1683 1504 2115 1826 2172 2457 2601 2059 1734 2089 1503 2108 1864 2508 2142 2537 1657 2797 2656 2192 2421 2042 1751 2783 2280 1643

Pensions- Continued . increased - continued . Davison, James H. Davy, Michael . Dawes, John W. Dawson, Sarah A. Day, Enos.. Day, Sarah Ann .. Dayhuff, Martin .... Dayton, James . De Bruler, William H..
De Burger, Marquis M. De Castro, Francis H. De Graff, Henry... De Haven, Samuel. De Laittre, Lewis.. De Noyer, Frank.. De Planque, Frederick. De Puy, John M.. De Witt, Orlean ..
Deal , Harvey . Dean, Chauncey P. Dean, George C. Dean, Samuel C... Dean, William.. Dearborn, Richard . Deardourff, John .. Dearey, James .. Deater, Levi.. Deckard, Jacob R .. Decker, David .. Decker, John L.. Decker, William A. Dedrick, Sarah A .... Deems, Isaac.. Deems, Samuel . Defoe, John M. Dehlendorf, Caroline... Del Gindice, Francesco Delaney, John... Delaney, Robert H. Delany, Edward .. Delany, William.. Delaware, Ambrose S .. Delisle, Joseph.. Delong, Henry.. Delong, Richard L..
Demers, Eugene.. Dennis, Isaac C..
Denny, Mary. Denson, Lewis .. Derr, Obadiah , Derry, Samuel . Deskines, Rush. Devereux , Arthur F. Devereux , Clara A. R.
Devor, James . Devore , Elijah. Dewees, Balas C .. Dewey, Robert J. Dewhurst, Joseph.. Dick, James M. Dick, Robert . Dickens , Sarah J. Dickerson, Stephen .. Dickey, John .. Dickey, Osbert D. Dickey, William G.. Dickhoff, Wilhelm . Dickinson, James K. Dickinson, Joseph B. Dickinson, Orville..
Dickson, Joseph.. Dicus, Hugh L. Diedrich, Paul.

INDEX.

Page.
2469 1992 2170 2200 1912 2103 1996 1865 2618 1806 2451 1989 2612 1939 2727 2500 1858 1610 1978 1570 2296 2101 2548 1543 1724 2230 2616 2018 2715 1764 2802 2295 1701 1978 2369 1780 1646 2589 2520 1997 1896 2299 2038 2196 1956 2304 1618 2614 2028 2147 1826 2293 1498 2217 2118 2800 1812 2397 2584 2772 1905 1523 1576 2229 2188 2636 1997 2191 1985 2601 1952 2537 2356

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued .
Diefenbach, Carrie.. Diehl, Daniel D. Dietz, John...
Dightman, George W. Dilg, Fred.. Dill, Elizabeth . Dill, Robert R.. Dilts, Daniel.. Dirck, David . Dittman, Fritz .. Ditto, Joshua S. Dix, John P.. Dixon, Adam.. Dixon, Alexander. Dixon, John M.
Dixon, Wiley H .. Dixon, William.. Dixson , Alexander. Doan, Caroline M.. Doan, Isaac S.. Doane, James G.. Dobson, William . Dodds, Lafayette . Dodge , Orvil.. Dodge, Reuben D .. Dodge, Richard .. Dodson, Levi....... Dodson, Palmetto . Doe, Erastus A.. Doersch, John M. Doherty, William H. Dolan, John...... Donahue, Patrick J. Donaldson , Lovisa. Donnald , Ella...
Donnelly, Douglas V Donnelly, Stewart J. Donohoe, Owen . Donovan, Ellen .. Doolittle, Samuel . Dopp, James... Dorin, Charles .. Dorman, James W. Dorman, North Ann . Dorn, Andrew... Dorrel, Nicholas W. Dory, Francis A.
Dotey, Hyacinth. Doty, Hiram B. Doty, Martin B. Doud, Edmond D ..
Dougal, Joseph... Dougherty, Mary E.. Dougherty, Sarah Jane . Doughty, Francis .. Doughty, Joseph W. Doughty, Lafayette . Douglas, Alonzo . Douglas, Robert H. Douglass , Andrew J. Dow, William B. Dowland , Frederick J. Dowling, Clarissa L... Downey, John... Downey, Maurice .. Downing, Ellen .. Downing, George.... Downs, Michael. Doyle, Michael .
Doyle, Terrance ., Doyle, William B. Drake, George B. Drake, George M.

3521
Page.
2603 1612 2052 1554 1674 1583 2469 1690 2194 2617 1966 2402 2084 2364 2626 1996 1628 2252 1499 2335 1550 2510 1598 2716 2276 2449 2299 1874 2610 1540 1871 1600 1613 2286 2198 2490 2058 1574 2127 2422 2498 1882 1977 2027 2026 2358 2686 2140 1452 2172 2406 1798 2710 2213 2626 2133 2634 1691 1805 1969 2286 2390 2093 2780 1453 2386 2450 2559 2293 2548 2785 2444 1564

3522
Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Drake, Morris B .. Drake, William F. Drake, William J. Draper, Solomon. Dreppard, Arthur R. Dreury, James .. Drew, Timothy. Driscoll, Mary. Drown, William D. Dryden , John D .. Du Bois, Charles E. Du Bois, Lewis.. Duane, Mary C. Dubois, Samuel . Duby, Charles .. Dudley, Erwin G Duff, James A. Duff, John J.
Duffield , Henry D. Duffield, William W Duffy, Bridget M. Duffy, Edward ..
Duffy, Mary.. Duggar, Isaac L.. Dugger, Mary E. Dummer, Samuel R. Dumont, Philip .. Dunbar, Edward R.. Duncan, Louisa .. Duncan, Mary A. Duncan, William R.. Dungan, Milton R.. Dunham, Andrew M. Dunkin , Manoah W. Dunlap, George W. Dunlap, James R. Dunlap, Martha A .. Dunlap , Richard.. Dunn, Andrew M.
Dunn, Harvey T. Dunn, John P Dunn , Michael . Dunnan, Samuel. Dunning, Andrew. Dunning , Austin S. Dunning, Charles H. Dunton, Elizabeth C. Durfey, Edwin C. Durgin, Albert F. Durgin, Daniel E. Durney, Alice M. Duryea, Mary A.. Dutcher, George N. Duvall, Eli . Dyer, Ellen M.
Dyer, George H. Dyer, Maria..
Dyke, Amos .. Eachus, Francis J.
Eagler, Joseph T. Eakin, David F. Eaman , James M. Earle, Daniel C. Earnest, William . Easley, Phebe . Eastep, Henry C Eastler, Henry Easton . Della S. Eastwood, James . Eaton, Daniel . Eberly, John C. Eberts, Peter . Echard, Heart.

INDEX .

Page.
1716 1900 1988 2442 1742 1851 2443 1556 2103 2772 2689 1949 1633 2733 2417 1816 2032 2574 2184 2682 2240 1862 1589 1958 1939 1764 2033 2326 2537 2270 1717 2236 1589 2461 1937 2630 2099 2049 2640 1625 1850 2624 1593 1625 2445 1983 1497 2604 2458 1907 1681 2179 1564 1886 2141 2385 1582 1896 2874 2300 2047 2521 1824 2644 2248 2568 2051 2549 1468 2159 1486 2185 1598

Pensions-Continued . increased - continued . Eddy, James M. Eddy, Levi.. Edgell, J. Frederick . Edgemon, William T. Edgerton, Ebenezer S. Edgerton, Fannie I .. Edmonds, Melvin T. Edmundson, John L .. Edsall, Clara C. Edsall, Thomas . Edson, Jennie E .. Edwards, Alanson W. Edwards, Charles . Edwards, David A. Edwards, Jerry.. Edwards, Lydia M. Edwards, Mary A.. Edwards, Sewall A
Egan , Bridget. Egan, James J. Egeness, Rachel . Egge, Perry.. Eggleston, William A. Egolf, William H... Eichholtz, Augusta T. Eiffert, James.. Eldred, Levi E. Eldridge, Esther.
Eldridge , John , jr . Ellicott, George W. Elliot, Jesse W Elliott, Edward E.. Elliott, Edwin. Elliott, John J. Elliott, Silas G.. Elliott, Thomas R.. Ellis , Aurora Garwood . Ellis, Charles R.
Ellis, Edgar D. Ellis, Howard . Ellis, Isabella . Ellis, Samuel . Ellison, Martin . Ellsworth, John W Elmes, William... Elsberry, Thomas S Emerson, Carlo J.. Emerson, Sargent R. Emery, Daniel R. Emery, Joseph D Emes, Anthony. Engle, Samuel. Engler, Lucy E. English, Walter M. Enright, Lizzie E. Ensminger, John A Epler, Jacob H. Epperson, Margaret Eppinger, William . Erick, John J. Ernest, Horatio . Ernst, Stephen . Esler, Alexander . Esmond, Friend S. Estes, John C. Estes, Julia W Estlow, James L. Eubank, James J. Eubank, John . Evans, Bridget. Evans, David .. Evans, Green . Evans, James B.

Page.
1864 2401 1708 1882 1606 1509 2318 1696 2378 1646 2290 2714 2204 2429 1884 1805 2585 1673 1927 1510 2061 1434 1639 1918 2450 1529 2643 2437 1902 1697 1558 2024 2024 2048 1599 2572 2558 1590 2649 1639 2187 2675 2069 1482 1518 2678 2725 1657 2677 1964 1810 1606 2071 2383 2625 1533 1498 2620 2276 2076 2460 1497 1826 2080 1644 1458 2271 2433 2055 1635 2242 2111 2318

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Evans, John D...
Evans, Mary.. Evans, Sarah M. Evans, William . Everett, David E. Everitt, Charles H. Eversole, John H. Eversole , William B. Everson, Ira J.. Everson, Nelson . Ewing, John. Ewing, William M. Ezell, Gillum M. Faggart, Rebecca .
Fagley, Benjamin . Failer, William A. Fain, Fountain M. Fairbanks, Retta M. Fairbrother, James R. Fairchild , James B .. Fales, Warren M .. Falkenburg, Elias S. Fallihee, Patrick... Fallon, Thomas T..
Fankell, George.. Fargo, Sheldon B. Farington, David W. Fariola, Octave L. F. E. Farner, Jacob .. Farnsworth, Hurlbutt L. Farquhar, John M .. Farrand, Lyman E. Farrar, Thomas J. Farrel, Charles.. Farrell, Arabella J Farrell, John.. Farrell, William H. Farrington , Willard Faulkner, William .. Fauver, Samuel.. Fay, Charles A. Fay, Sylvenus A. Featheringill, Alfred . Feeley, William E.. Fehr, Emma..
Feigley, Mary C.. Fell , Benjamin F. Fellows, Franklin J. Fellows, William H. II Fenz, Frederick.. Ferber, Jacob ..
Fergerson, Joseph . Fergus, Alexander M. Ferguson, Bettie . Ferguson, Caswell D. Ferguson , John H .. Ferguson, William W. Fernald, James M.. Ferrell , Napoleon B. Ferrier, Daniel T.. Ferris, Weston.. Ferry, Francis H. Fetterman, George. Feyler, Moses ..
Field, George H. Field, Jacob A. Field, Michael M. Field, Minna Y. Fienop, Frederick . Fifield, Mary E .. Files, John L.. Filkins, Hiram . Fillio, Edmund ..

INDEX .

Page.
2366 2638 2030 1711 1483 1614 2082 1627 2583 2328 2238 1795 2591 2446 1515 1967 2039 1478 2761 2028 2717 2250 1536 1580 2040 1910 2171 2707 2375 2472 1950 1539 2235 1946 2740 1673 2090 1928 2404 2400 1638 1561 2351 2511. 2516 1923 2396 1622 1897 2022 1906 2604 2243 2381 1534 1478 2004 1640 2360 1710 1783 2799 2234 2417 2523 1839 2779 2808 2445 1720 1466 2810 2444

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Finch, John .. Findley, Carrie B. Finical, Benjamin F Finklea, Sarah Emaline . Fish, Edmund... Fish, Lorenzo B. Fish, Samuel .. Fisher, Ambrose R. Fisher, John ..
Fisher, Joseph C. Fisher, Thomas C. Fisher, Tobias . Fisher, Willard P Fisher, William T. Fitch, Everett S. Fitzgerald, Catharine F. Fitzgerald, James E. Fitzgerald, Patrick . Fitzpatrick, Matt . Fitzwater, Stephen M. Flaherty, Dennis .. Flanagan, Michael . Flanery, John L. Fletcher, George W Fletcher, John W Fletcher, Lucius C .. Flick, George W Flint, Wilbur F. Flint, William H.
Flournoy, Silas . Flowers, Kate.. Floyd, Jonathan E. Fluegel, William .. Flynn, Agnes . Flynn, Anna .. Flynn, James . Flynn, John.. Foale, William R. P. Foard, Mary Ann . Foat, William . Focht, Hiram ..
Fogg, George F. Foley, Laurence Follin, James M. Foltz, John .. Fonda, John G. Foor, Andrew J. Foote, Asa M. Foote, Robert . Forbes, Laura J. Forbes, Similde E. Ford, David .. Ford, Edward . Ford, Eli.. Ford, Ezekiel C. Ford, Fayette E. Ford, George F Ford, Gilbert . Ford, James P Ford, Orton D Foreaker, John W. Forman , Henry H. Fornshell, Frank L.. Fornwalt, Isaac .. Fosdick, Andrew J. Foskett, Liberty W. Foster, Almon .. Foster, Alonzo .. Foster, Charles E. Foster, Charles W. Foster, Dolores S.
Foster, Harvey . Foster, Jessie E ..

3523
Page.
2603 1553 2083 1513 1969 2328 1883 1763 1513 2656 2594 2331 2148 2560 1656 2244 2777 2199 1705 2672 2267 2770 2791 2124 1955 2241 1651 2121 1616 1860 2593 1776 1664 1676 1 2298 1819 1493 1517 2783 1575 2674 2636 2025 2196 1708 2138 2780 1568 2768 1435 1972 2082 2515 2693 2719 2163 2426 1564 1510 1569 1503 1804 1960 2579 2128 2732 1502 2645 2668 2360 2274 1896 2146

3524
Pensions Continued. increased- continued .
Foster, Joseph W. Foster, Margaret E. Foster, Mary A.. Foster, Mary O. Foster, Samuel . Foster, Samuel H. Foster, William.. Foulk, Rachel A. Fountain, William H. Foutty, Thomas B. Fowler, George M. Fowler, James W. Fowler, Noah C. Fowler, Susan N. Fowlkes, Calvin B Fox, Charles B ..
Fox, Emily.. Fox, Henry Jacob. Fox. John .. Fox, John Fox, William. Fox, William C. Frahm , August . France, Isaac C. Francis, George A.. Franklin, William H. Franks, Lafayette .. Franz, Jacob.. Fraser, Angus . Frasier, Francis H. Frayer, Andrew J. Frazer, George M. Frazier, James .. Frazier, Samuel H. Frederick, Clarissa A Freeland, Fleming H. Freeman, Edwin .. Freeman, Harmon . Freeman, Laura M.. Freeman, Maitland J. Freeman, Orrin .. Freeman, Susan R. Freeman, William.. Freese, Charles J. French, Benjamin. French, Daniel . French, Joseph . French, Lucian W.
Frett, John, jr . Frick, John ... Friebele, Frederick . Fried, Richard T. Friend, Charles H.
Frier, Arby... Fritts, William E. Frizelle, Matilda C. Frost, Charles R. Frost, John W. Fuchs, Sebastian.. Fuhrman, John L. Fuller, Alden .. Fuller, Alonzo W. Fuller, Daniel. Fuller, Henry A.
Fuller, Joseph. Fuller, Oscar A. Fuller, Sarah Elizabeth .
Fulmer, Harvey J.. Fulton, Charles W Fulton . Robert L.. Furey, Thomas.. Furlong, William . Furman, Jesse M.

INDEX.

Page.
1689 1779 1867 2671 1436 1822 2497 1560 2736 2291 2318 1903 1831 2262 2774 1838 2303 1889 2270 2396 2200 2186 1754 1970 1484 1747 2231 1855 2684 1745 2759 1740 1500 1913 2341 2180 2142 2019 2670 1485 2528 2194 2776 2452 1699 2512 2063 1919 2333 2189 1892 1639 1716 1881 1703 1937 1927 2528 2524 2045 1846 2694 2544 2766 2119 2763 2587 1669 1578 2197 1784 1485 1650

Pensions- Continued. increased--continued . Fyffe, Willa ... Gaffney, Patrick . Gage, Marshall U. Gage, Theodoric .. Gahan, John W Gain, Lucinda .. Galbraith, Cate F. Galbraith, Sarah F. Galligan, Edward W. Gallion , William R .. Galloway, Sarah A Galloway, Virginia C .. Gamble, Harvey.. Gamble, James L.. Game, Charlotte ..
Gangwer, Stephen . Gannon, James.. Gardener, George . Gardner, Anna M.. Gardner, Asa A.... Gardner, Henry G.. Gardner, James H. Gardner, James M.. Gardner, Orrin A. A. Gardner, Robert D. Garland, Darius E. Garland, Joseph P. Garland, Rebecca . Garnsey, Francis D. Garrett, Elias W.. Garrett, William S. Garrison, Silas .. Garrison, William H. Garritt, James M. Garst, Samuel S .. Garvey, Dominick . Garvey, Patrick .. Gaskey, Andrew J. Gaskill, Eugene , Gaskill, George H. Gaskill, Harvey.. Gates, Jonathan F. Gates, Levi ... Gates, Theodore W. Gatewood , Elison .. Gaudineer, Frederick P. Gaunt, Mary Ann .. Gaus, Michael.. Gause, Elmira M. Gautier, William H. Gay, Joel...
Gaylord, George . Gaynor, William .. Gearey, George W. Gearkee, Alice . Geary, Michael J.
Geduldig, Henry A. Gee, Francis ... Geiger, Jacob A. Gein, Louis H.. Gemmill, John . Gentles, Henry. George, John .. George, Lewis S. George, Zachariah . Gerard, John B .. Gerhardt, Sebastian.. Gersteneker, Jacob W. Getter, Jacob B .. Ghrist, Sarah L.. Gibbon, Ellen A. Gibbons. John .... Gibbs, Richard J.

Page.
2496 2136 1724 2789 2497 1801 1751 1739 2426 1923 2386 1801 2144 2194 2510 2474 1821 2138 1465 2664 1580 1836 2786 2075 2105 2395 2226 1468 2217 2720 1933 2599 2606 1659 1875 2580 1454 2297 1641 1860 1439 1633 2292 2670 2510 2655 1614 2516 2100 2029 2194 1690 1750 1490 1588 2759 2346 1449 1511 2156 1786 1999 2794 1942 1800 1883 2761 1963 2737 2062 1854 1588 2729

Pensions-Continued.

increased-continued .

Gibson, Appleton.. Gibson, George ..

Gibson, George C. Gibson , Louisa C.

Gibson, Milo G..

Gibson, Timothy H.

Gibson, William..

Giffen , John.. Gifford, Lestina M. Gilbert, John M. Gilbert, Leander . Gilbert, William H.

Gilborne, Davis ..

Gilbrech, Jacob ..

..

Gildersleeve , William H.

Gilham, Henry..

Gillam, Burrell H.

Gillam, Daniel W.

Gillem, Mary J. Gillen, Stephen.. Gillespie, Edward ..

Gillespie, William O. Gilliland, John M.

Gillispie, John E Gilman, Lemuel O.

Gilmore, Isaac B..

Gilmore, Kate ..

Gilpatrick, Thomas W. Gilrain, Michael F.

Gilson, George W.. Ginther, John.. Gipson, William A.

Girdler, Joseph.. Girdler, William.

Girvan, William J. Glaspie, Andrew P. Glavis, Loucette E.

Glazner, Sion B ... Glisan , William R.

Goble, Mary M.. Godwin, William T. Goebel, Christian H.

Goebel, Valentine .

Gogin, Richard .. Golder, Henry . Good, Christian M.

Good, Henry.

Good , Mary A.

Goode, Joseph J. Goodell, Edwin R.

Goodell, Hiram N.

Goodier, John R.. Gooding, John ........ Goodlander, Henry. Goodrich, Samuel B. T.

Goodsell, Jerome..

Goodwin, Emma E. Gootee, Thomas N.

Gordon, Ephraim A.

Gordon, George H.

Gordon, George W. Gordon, Isaac.. Gordon, John Ard . Gorton, Elizabeth .

Gough, John F..

Gould, Abbie B.

Gould, Elijah G .. Grabill, Ira.

Graffam , William T

Graham, Anderson .. Graham, Arthur..

Graham, Ellen R.,

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-59

INDEX .

Page.
1611 1603 2686 2106 1720 2799 1976 2121 1820 2550 2105 1969 2724 2800 1720 .1763 2756 2476 2372 1462 1938 1684 2712 2362 1761 2762 1853 2704 2779 1949 2084 1834 1729 2513 2240 2213 1589 1618 1467 2399 1820 1920 2646 2810 1836 2350 1871 1926 2085 1527 1966 2500 2785 2560 2688 1682 2172 2638 1453 2086 2197 2350 2225 1792 2779 1784 2100 .1733 2672 2518 2642 1478

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued. Graham, Jacob A. Graham, James . 1 Gramberg, Mary . Grandaw, William H. Grandy, Melvin .. Grant, John J. Grant, Julia P. Grant, Lewis A. Grant, William . Grass, Harman . Graves, Sewell F. Gray, Charles P. Gray, Frank N Gray, James.. Gray, Marcena C. S. Gray, Washington D. Gray, William E .. Gray, William S. Grayson, James D. Grayson, John T .. Greeley, Almond . Green, Charles .. Green, Ella B. Green, George K. Green, George S. Green, George W.
Green, Hugh.. Green, John . Green, Louis .. Green, Nathaniel . Green, Philo .. Green, Thomas J. Green, Walter.. Greene, Catharine A..
Greene, Mary. Greene, Walter D. Greenlee, Samuel .
Greer, Benjamin F. Gregg, G. Annie ..
Gregg, Playford .. Gregory, Eleanor . Gregory, Horace A Gregory, John... Grell, Jacob .. Grier, Josiah M.. Griese, Wilhelm. Griffeth, Milton A. Griffin, George W. Griffin, James H.. Griffin, Robert Henderson . Griffith, David D. Griffith, Thomas .. Griffith, Thomas M. Griffith, William F. Grimm, John .......... Grimsley, Amelia E.
Grissom, Joseph C ... Griswold, Isaac L.. Griswold, Lester M. P. Grizzle, James..... Grogan, Harriet E. Grover, Andrew J. Groves, Andrew H. Grow, William J. Gude, Alfred . Guile, Charles H. Guiney, Jeannette M. Guion, William R.. Guiott, Joseph . Gunderson, Ole. Gunselman , Valentine . Gurnee, Jonas ...

3525
Page.
2399 1533 2354 2727 1931 1513 2363 2440 2706 2721 1973 2252 1694 2003 2463 2432 2478 2421 2530 2771 2151 2399 2278 2114 2189 2575 1725 1811 2646 2426 2056 2649 1837 2631 1468 2438 1722 1904 2118 1774 1992 1858 2546 2681 1572 -2192 2058 2373 1802 1761 1631 1743 2536 1872 2493 1880 1708 2653 2714 1766 1671 2280 2578 1501 2106 2178 2503 1747 2059 2727 1904 2460

3526
Pensions Continued . increased-continued .
Gurney, Ruth B... Gustus, John........ Guthrie, Christopher S. Guthrie, David B..
Guthrie, Margaret E. Guy, Henry.. Gwin, Isum.. Haack, John.. Hackett, James B.
Hackley, Mary A, Hackney, James F. Hackney, William H.
Hadley, Weymouth . Hadsall, John E... Haferstein, Gottfried . Hagan, Lawrence .. Hagar, Lucas... Hagenmiller, Herman . Hager, James W. Hager, John.. Hahn, Henry. Haight, Allen M.. . Haines, William.
Hains, Benjamin . Hair, David H.. Haire,,Arthur.. Halbert, Marion F. Halbert, Mary J.. Hale, William.. Hales, James R.. Haley, Martin .. Hall, Anna Frances .
Hall, Henry D.. Hall, James P. Hall, John B .. Hall, John W. Hall, Josiah. Hall, Levi M.
Hall, Mary A.. Hall, Mary C. Hall, Richard B. Hall, Silas P.. Hall, William . Hall, William. Hall, William M.. Hallenbeck, Cornelius A. Haller, Martha J..
Hallett, Margaret . Hallowell, Martha E. Ham, Amos.. Ham, John.. Ham, Mark.. Haman, James H., Hamenstaedt, Henry V. Hamill, Priscilla L.. Hamill , Robert L.. Hamilton, John Hamilton, John.. Hamilton, Robert . Hamilton, Sherrod . Hamilton, Thomas . Hamlen, Alfred M. Hamman, Philip . Hamme, Henry Hammer, Theron . Hammes, Mathias . Hammond, Charles . Hammond, Frank G. Hammond, Jehial P. Hammond, William . Hammontrce. James E. Hamre, Albeit J Hancher, Elizabeth Jane,.

INDEX.

Page.
1482 2493 2073 2060 2417 1692 2165 1685 2691 1482 1848 1919 2370 1538 2805 2345 1781 2479 2057 2443 1895 2347 1991 2260 2166 1693 2155 2019 2680 1788 2171 1837 1653 2090 1887 2525 2234 2182 2213 2520 2696 1487 2049 2647 1536 1432 2274 1662 1624 2279 2802 2229 1858 1655 2668 2469 1701 2103 2695 2274 2583 1952
2576 2394 2432 1945 1872 2312 2134 2086 2081 2531 2403

Pensions- Continued. increased-continued.
Hancock, Samuel H.. Hand, John.. Hand , Lemuel . Hand, Orlando .. Hand, William . Haner, Francis . Hanes, Elias.. Haney, James M. Hanigan, William E. Hanlon, Timothy. Hann, James .. Hanna, David . "Hanna, James P. Hanna, Kate E... Hannah, John W.. Hannahs, Antoinette .
Hanson, Mary. Hanson, Nelson. Hanson, Theodore H.
Hapgood, George W. Harbert, Asa K... Hardester, Josephine . Hardesty, William . Hardie, Emeline H .. Harding, Eliza J.... Harding, Samuel J .. Hardy, Edwin R..
Hardy, Sylvenus. Hardy, William. Hare, James F.
Hare, Joseph, jr. Harelson, Assov. Hares, Henry. Hargis, John C. L.. Hargrave, Elizabeth P. Hargrave, John R.. Harlan, Christopher C.. Harlan, Samuel W.. Harlan, William A. Harman, Michael .. Harmon, Decatur.. Harmon, Eleazer C. Harmony, Leonard . Harrelson, Jasper N. Harrington, Almus.. Harrington, Sarah R.. Harris, Andrew J...
Harris, George W. Harris, Heman A.. Harris, John G.. Harris, Luther W.
Harris, Overton, E. Harris, Thomas M. Harris, William M. Harris, William T.. Harrison, Allamanza M. Harrison, Edson J. Harrison, Jesse ... Harrison, John. Harrison, Robert G. Harrison, Thomas.. Harrison, Thomas J.. Harrop, Thomas.. Harroun, Susan..
Harsh, Joseph W. Hart, Amos.. Hart, Edward . Hart , James S .. Hart, John K. Harte, Daniel J. Harter, Martin . Hartley, Samuel . Hartman, Jacob..

Page.
1845 2753 2201 2048 2326 2299 2071 2786 2478 2587 1755 1585 2586 2339 1728 1519 1971 2356 1637 2717 2671 2203 2750 2817 1493 1780 1822 1580 1745 14362731 2302 1902 2599 2741 2545 1715 1980 2402 2640 1719 2038 1495 1899 2211 2468 2710 2298 2176 1609 2633 2746 2132 2475 1685 2103 1721 1569 1977 1840 2341 2675 2712 2543 1991 1761 2125 2513 2187 2364 1758 2160 2482

nsions-Continued . ncreased -continued .
Hartshorn, Dana W. Hartwell, Lorenzo D. Hartzel, James .. Harvey, Alphonso H. Harvey, David .. Harvey, Ella N Harvey, James G Harvey, John T. Harvey, Samuel . Harvey, William Harvey, William Haskell, Gardiner K. Haskell, Oren D. Haslam , Jacob B. Hassett, Richard E.. Hastie, Robert .. Hastings, Frank S ..
Hastings, Henry. Hastings, William T. Hatch, Davis W.
Hatch, William D. Hatfield, John W. Hathaway, Augustus . Hathorn, Arthur .
Hattan, Mary E. Hatten, Francis M. Hatter, Francis... Hatton, Jacob L .. Hausker, Angel . Havel, George A. Havens, James D.. Havens, Rolland . Hawes, Amelia M. Hawk, 1Alfred T.. Hawkins, Franklin G. Hawkins, Jacob S. Hawkins, Lorin N Hayes, Hannah M. Hayes, John E .. Hayes, John H. Hayes, Joshua L.. Hayes, Maurice .. Hayman, James H..
Haynes, Margaret . Hays, Daniel.. Hays, Elizabeth T.
Hays, Joseph M. Hays, William H. Hays, William J.
Hayt, Kathryn G. Hayter, George W. Hayward, Alfred . Hayward, Frederick E. Haywood, Edmond R. Hazen, John ..... Hazlitt, Isaiah H. Head, James G..
Heald, Benjamin F. Healey, Wilhelmina . Healy, Samuel G.. Heaney, John T. Hearne, William C .. Heath, Emma M. Heath, Horace E. Heath , John . Heck, Jacob H.
Heck, John .. Hecker, John . Hedgepeth, Lauranah J. Heiler, Martin .. Heiner, Helen G. Heinrichs, John . Heinzen, Anton ..

INDEX.

Page.
2257 1916 1475 1667 2418 2113 2692 2334 2293 1472 2233 2091 2543 2777 2380 2768 2365 1584 2696 1712 1584 1724 1990 2432 2287 2657 1587 2297 1598 1878 1749 1798 2268 1556 1773 2724 2681 2018 2690 2803 2804 1601 2522 2050 1567 2534 2052 2297 1803 1627 1814 2576 2595 1806 2736 2047 1535 1981 1624 2439 2205 1809 1476 2795 2431 2190 1507 2165 2801 2499 1817 2586 2576

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Helms, Gibson ...
Helton, Henry. Helvey, Charles W. Helvy, William M..
Hempler, Emma.. Henderson, Charles W. Henderson, George. Henderson, John . Henderson, John E.. Hendricks, William . Heney, John C ...
Henning, Stephen J. Henninger, Jacob . Henninger, James F. Hennon, James.. Henrie, George W. Henry, Anderson .. Henry, George W. Henry, John A.. Henry, John N. Henry, John W Henry, Robert J Hensley, Martha J. Hentig, Laura... Herald, Samantha E .. Herbert, Lemuel.. Hercher, Ferdinand . Hercherberger, Nicholas . Hernandez, Angelina.. Hernandez, Susan E. Herndon, John G. V. Herrick, Wilford . Herrick, William W. Herridge, Tillman T. Herridge, William C. Herriman, Homer F. Herring, Calvin.... Hess , George B. Hess, Sheldon .. Hester, William H. Hetherlin, John T. Hewitt, Isaac B... Hewitt, Thomas L. Hibben, Oliver H. Hibbs, William..
Hickcox, John, jr . Hicks, Abram H. Hicks, Edwin .. Hicks, William H. Hierl, George.. Higbie, Abram. Higgins, Edward . Higgins, Edwin L .. Higgins, Honora.. Higgins, John J. Higgins, Josiah P.
Higgins, Mary E. Hight, Laura G. Higley, Henry W. Hildebrand, Minna. Hildenbrand, Frederick Hiler, Joseph . Hilkey, William I.. Hill , Abram J. Hill, Amanda L. Hill, Franklin M.
Hill, George T .. Hill , Henry. Hill , Henry H. Hill , Ira D. Hill, Irwin M Hill, James H. Hill, Moses .

3527
Page
2332 2560 2470 2807 2810 1730 1876 1796 2417 2026 1988 2600 2325 2394 2161 2242 2433 1585 2552 1840 2092 2673 1754 2129 1765 1620 1927 1612 1460 2567 2322 2714 2671 1708 1877 1755 2742 1960 2516 2044 2404 1648 2746 2150 2120 2758 1774 1912 1502 2631 1977 2113 1762 2581 2490 2300 2371 2593 1785 2203 1749 1453 1508 1617 1565 2066 1708 2778 1634 2627 2680 1722 1825

3528
Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Hill, Robert M. C.. Hilliard, James R. Himmel, Margaret . Hinds, Francis M. Hiner, William R.. Hines, James .. Hines, Samuel W. Hinkle, Nathan. Hinman, Sarah M. E.. Hirst, Joseph H.. Hirth, John.. Hitchcock, Malinda H. Hitchcock, William C. Hite, Francis A... Hizar, Aquilla M. Hoag, Ruth M .. Hoaglin, William . Hobart, Henry H. Hobbs, Mary E.. Hoch, John ... Hockley, Thomas B. Hodgdon, Caroline L.. 1 Hodge, Elizabeth . Hodge, Wilbur F. Hodges, Betsey A. Hodges, Elizabeth . Hodges, Elizabeth A. Hodges, Ella A..
Hodges, George H. Hodges, Herrick. Hodges, Thomas T Hodges, William C.
Hodgman, George W. Hoell George. Hoff. Esek W. Hoff. William D. Hoffman, Martha.. Hoffman, Nancy A. E. Hoffman, Sarah E. Hoffmann , Lewis . Hoffmeister, Hermann . Hoffner, Frederick .. Hogan, Michael. Hogan, Thomas H. Hogan, Washington . Hoge, Mary J. Hoit, Rhoda A. Hoke, Hiram G.. Holbrook, Augustus L. Holcomb, Joshua . Holcomb, Judson H. Holcomb, Martin L. Holden, George.. Holden, Margaret . Holderby, Frank. Holderby, James .. Holland, Alphonso B. Holland, Samuel P. Holland, Sarah E .. Holland, William. Holle, Mary . Hollett, James F. Holley, John ... Holloway, William E. Holly, Luther S. Holmes, Bartholomew . Holmes, Martin ....
Holmes, Virginia J. D. Holmes, Wilson M. Holsey, John H. Holt, Isaac J .. Holvenstot, Marion L.. Homan, Charles H..

INDEX.

Page.
2349 2028 2228 1982 2095 1694 2637 1773 1938 1696 1924 2501 1509
2045 1884 2707 1929 1432 2509 2052 2604 2211 2590 2277 2276 2057 2057 2621 1463 1553 1504 2552 2280 2784 2045 2706 1923 2702 2368 1982 2644 2783 2535 2037 1505 1512 2393 1869 2282 2162 2569 2173 1800 2698 2744 2173 1630 1967 1990 1591 2779 1978 2416 2123 1896 2387 2552 2015 2561 2438 1693 1786 2504

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Honeywell, John G., Hood, Anna E. Hook, Andrew L.. Hooker, Delia A. Hoornbeck, Josephine. Hooton, Charles S. M..
Hoover, Evans P. Hoover, James .. Hoover, John S Hoover, William C. Hope, Margaret A. Hopkins, Charles . Hopkins, Charles P. Hopkins, Harvey M. D.
Hopkins, Stephen D. Hopper, Alvin D. Hopper, William A Hoppin, Elizabeth D. Horbach, James B. O
Horn, Samuel . Horn, William R.. Hornbeak, John .
Horrall, Spillard F. Horton, Benjamin F Horton, Elisha G.
Horton, Henry . Horton, Julia A. Hoskins, Levi .. Hosley, William T. Hostetter, Edmund . Houck, Harmon.. Hough, Samuel . Houghton, Hiram T.
Houlihan, Margaret L. Hounsom, Horace.. House, James L... House, William .. Houser, Frederick . Houser, Manasa T. Houston, James M. Houston, William H. Hovious, Silas B.. Howard, David C. Howard, Harriet Howard, Isaac . Howard, Isaac M. Howard, James F. Howard, John W. Howard, Loren H. Howard, Martha . Howard, Milton L.. Howard, Miranda W Howard , Thomas .. Howardson, James .
Howe, George P. Howe, Jacob . Howe, Jesse W. Howe, John W. Howe, Marion F Howell, Eliza.... Howell, Elizabeth C. Howell, John T.. Howell, Mary M. Howell, William W. Howells, John J. Howes, Edwin . Howland , Ora P. Hubbard, Emily P. Hubbard , James F. Hubbard , William H. Hubbell, William R.. Hubbs, Warren P. Hudkins, James P.

Page.
1733 2426 2609 1652 1743 1457 2105 1628 1441 2209 2023 2360 1914 1544 1714 1756 2137 1736 2304 1803 2585 1798 2155 2765 2169 2200 2682 2602 2174 2387 2183 2034 2322 2267 1562 2387 1565 1498 2282 2648 1843 1440 1844 2001 2107 1955 1876 2322 1599 1917 2630 2747 1725 2391 1539 2509 1990 2634 1540 2478 1694 1626 2731 1764 2096 2013 2152 2123 1636 2699 1494 2532 2357

Pensions -Continued . increased-continued . Hudson, Ann.... Hudson , Eliza J. Hudson, Hosea . Hudson, James D .. Hudson, Thompson H. Hudson, William D .. Huff, Cathrin .... Huff, Henry.. Huff, William P. Huffman, Alex . O. Hughes, Anna E.. Hughes, Eliza A. Hughes, Henry C. Hughes, John J.. Hughes, Roseanna.
Hughes, Sterling.. Hughes, Thomas. Hughes, William.
Hughs, Georgia A. Hughson, Edgar B. Hulbert, Helen H. Hull, Andrew J. Hull, Charles... Hull, Henrietta.. Hull, John.. Hull, Mary M.. Hull, Sarah E .. Humble, Henry..
Hummel, George Casper Homan . Humphrey, John W. Humphreys, Mary W. Humrich, William A. Hunnewell, Sumner F
Hunt, Douglas A.... Hunt, Henry F.. Hunt, Hiram G. Hunt, Jennie R.
Hunt, Lydia.... Hunter, Albert M.. Hunter, Andrew J. Hunter, George B. Hunter, Jonathan M.. Hunter, Samuel B. Huntley, Lorenzo D .. Hurst , Elijah Thompson. Husbrook, Artemesia T. Hussey, Calvin C ....... Hutcheson, Nancy Elizabeth . Hutchins, Margaretta E.. Hutchinson , James.. Hyatt, Joshua E .. Hyatt, Wilson .. Hyde, George W. Hyde, Phineas. Ickes, William .. Ickstadt, Joseph. Ihrie, Laura B. Ingalls, Jeremiah . Ingebretson, Gunnerus. Ingersoll, Herbert D .. Ingram, Albin L.. Ingram , John ..... Ingram , Orin .... Ingram, William . Irvine, Lydia .. Irwin, Adelle D.
Irwin, Edward . Irwin, George W. Isaacs, Alfred S. Isaacs, Burgess N. Isaacson, Lars .. Isbell, William H. Isom , Susan H ..

INDEX.

Page.
2747 2184 2621 1769 2462 2452 2258 2507 2397 2072 2413 2532 2632 1681 2242 2034 1885 1586 2036 1908 1718 1604 1719 2353 1954 1557 1857 2428 2254 2399 2620 2151 1715 2191 1486 2097 2599 2792 1573 1858 1554 2193 2734 1838 1443 2005 2126 2252 2181 1709 2549 1492 2120 2219 2149 2736 1938 1458 1646 1909 1571 2566 2282 2494 2741 1648 1502 2470 1588 2804 2753 2398 1815

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Israel, Susan E... Ivans, William . Ivers, William .
Ivey, Mary J. Jackman, Jesse. Jackson, Andrew. Jackson, Charles..
Jackson, Henry C .. Jackson, Lydia B. Jackson, Mary A. Jackson, Samuel .. Jackson, Solomon .. Jackson, Thomas C.
Jackson, Wiley H.. Jackson, William . Jackson, William Jacobs, Hannah R. Jacobs, James.. Jacobs, John T. Jacobs, Mary E. Jacoby, John .. James, Benjamin . James, Hezekiah . James, John H.. James, Margaret L.. James, Morris J.. Jameson, Nelson W. Jandro, William.. Janes, Lewis C... Janney, George L. Jaquith, George L. Jared , James M. Jarvis, Andrew.
Jarvis, Lewis M Jarvis, Noah .. Jasnowski , Saturnin . Jasper, Charles H.. Jayne, Joshua S .. Jean, Derias Thomas. Jefferis, Anna M.. Jefferson, David E. Jellison, Joshua T. Jenkins, James M. Jenkins, Robert . Jenkins, Rosa Olds . Jenkins, William .. Jenkins, William . Jensen, Franz Z. F. W. Jepson, Frances A. Jester, Samuel..
Jewett, Henry C. Johannes, Mary P. John, Robert ..
Johnson, Akey C. Johnson, Benjamin F. Johnson, Bertha Maria.. Johnson, Darwin... Johnson, David B. Johnson, Edmund . Johnson, Elias... Johnson, George A.. Johnson, Hannibal A. Johnson, Hautville A. Johnson, Henry . Johnson , Henry B. Johnson, Henry C. Johnson, Henry L. Johnson, Isaac.. Johnson, Jerry . Johnson, John .. Johnson, Lydia A. Johnson , Marquis L. Johnson , Marshall ..

3529
Page.
1659 2784 2643 2133 2506 2061 2127 2035 1517 2690 2286 1926 1879 2508 2330 2475 2100 1862 1905 2737 1746 2753 2495 2787 2756 1746 2745 1852 2265 1723 1651 2074 2562 2792 2446 2158 1728 2626 2043 1754 2790 2709 2267 2440 2422 2444 2549 2517 2271 1574 2622 1662 2325 1510 2615 2745 2036 2121 2788 1738 2323 2591 1918 2025 2739 .1660 2233 2687 2398 2128 2116 1735 2444

3530
Pensions - Continued . increased - continued . Johnson, Martin .. Johnson, Mary E. . Johnson, Mary F. Johnson, Merrill . Johnson, Orson B. Johnson, Roland M. Johnson, Samuel E. Johnson , Sarah.. Johnson, Solomon . Johnson, Wiley B. Johnson, William D. Johnson , William J. Johnson, William J. Johnston, Joseph.. Joines, John ... Jones, Alpheus . Jones, David... Jones, David C. Jones, David S. Jones, Eliza C. Jones, Francis A. Jones, Henry A. Jones, John M. Jones, John T. Jones, John W.
Jones, Joseph A. Jones, Josephine S. Jones, Lydia Ann. Jones, Mahala.. Jones, Mahala M. Jones, Martha Ann .
Jones, Mary C.. Jones, Meshack L.
Jones, Orange G... Jones, Richard.. Jones, Samuel.... Jones, Samuel J .. Jones, Thomas . Jones, William D.
Jordan, Henry. Jordan, Henry B. Jordan, Henry D. Jordan, James R. Jordan, Josephine L. Jordan, Stephen D. Jordan, William W Joseph, Henry C.. Joslin, William H. Joslyn, Daniel C. Joslyn , Susan J. F. Joslyn , William H. Josselyn, Nathan W Joyce, Henry.. Joyce , Joseph B. · Joyce, Margaret F. Joyce, Martha ...
Joyeux, Augustus . Judd , Lisania.. Judd , Zadok K. Judson , Calvin .. Julian, George N. Justin, George H. Kalsem, Soren V. Kamerer, John . Kane, James H .:
Kanline, Henry. Kaogan, Rosanna . Karns, Nicholas . Kasson, James W Kauffman , Joseph. Kaufman , Abraham M. Kavanaugh , Kate H.

INDEX.

Page.
2618 1936 2378 2159 2451 2492 1651 1570 1891 1788 1820 2540 1434 2274 2124 1780 2781 2583 2251 1599 1607 2034 1735 1557 2096 1808 2227 1819 2012 2521 2253 2756 1524 1450 2703 1980 1530 2636 2021 1642 1532 2156 1621 2040 2650 2456 2386 1536 2002 1930 1703 1617 2631 2782 1934 2525 1728 1945 2723 2391 2457 2473 2550 2175 1632 2800 2773 2168 2520 1851 1667 1695

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Keach, John C .. Kean, John G .. Kearney, Elizabeth Jane.. Kearney, Johanna..
Kearney, Margaret.. Kearns, Michael . Keating, Edward . Keck, Franklin J. Keck, Gilbert H.. Keech, William K. Keeler, Eleanora A. Keener, John C .. Keeting, Clara A. Keffer, Francis J. Kehlbeck, William H. Keith, Anna F .. Keith, Thomas E. Kell, Blanche M ..
Keller, Harvey B. F. Keller, Jacob.. Keller, John .. Keller, Samuel . Kelley, James .. Kelley, James.. Kellner, Amos.. Kellogg, Francis M. Kellogg, James B Kelly, Clarendon . Kelly, Elvira A.. Kelly, Esther C .. Kelly, Thomas .. Kelly, Walden .. Kelly, William .. Kelsey, Charles W. Kelsey, George W. Kelsey, Roswell J. Kelso, William.. Kemp, James H Kendall, Oliver L. Kendig, Sarah Ann . Kenisston, Charles W. Kennan, Marshall T. Kennedy, Elizabeth C. Kennedy, John C. Kennedy, Joseph. Kennedy, Justin C. Kennedy, William . Kenner, William F. Kenney, Ella E... Kenney, Harriet ( ' Kenney, James... Kenney, Martha A.. Kenny, Nicholas D. Kent, Nathaniel R. Kephart, Lucy A.. Kerr, Jane Elizabeth . Kerr, Mary A.. Kerwin, Mathew .
Key, Harvey. Keys, Jasper H. Keys, John.. Keyser, Henry C. Kiichli , Joseph.
Killey, Philip. Killian, Emily. Kilpatrick, John . Kimball, David P. Kimball, Edward L. Kimball, Herman A. Kimball, William B. Kimball, William H. Kincaid , Jeremiah .. Kindle, Isaac ..

Page.
2320 2379 1628 2254 2423 2173 1775 1730 2729 1667 1642 1680 2740 1842 2654 1511 1835 2504 2689 1741 1604 2526 1431 2582 2629 1595 1656 2655 2258 2612 2256 2243 1993 1986 2430 1668 2757 1972 1684 2584 2605 2507 2212 1504 2722 2667 2286 1795 2218 2384 2635 1999 2390 1647 2376 2207 2538 2226 2685 1496 2135 1902 2716 2212 2269 2654 2165 1623 1607 1439 2422 1709 1998

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued. King, Alida.... King, Augustus D .. King, George. King, Josias R. King, Martin C ..
King, Mary A.. King, Samuel F. King, Thomas D. Kingsbury, John E .. Kingsley, Eugene P. Kingston, Anna E.. Kinkerly, Jacob. Kinney, Andrew E.
Kinney, Holaway W. Kinney, Patrick.. Kinnison, Newton . Kinsauls, Emsley. Kinsman, Joseph H. Kinsman, Josiah B.
Kirby, Lindsay.. Kirch, John.. Kircher, Joseph. Kirchner, Gottlieb . Kirk, David A.. Kirk, Firman F.
Kirk, Mary.. Kirkpatrick, David W. Kirkpatrick, William . Kirkwood , William.. Kirsch, Nicholaus .. Kitchen, Uriah . Kitchin, Elias C. Kite, Alvin N. D. Kleckner, John P. Klein, Charles .. Klindt, Maria R.. Kline, Jacob L... Kling, William.
Klink, Henry G. Knapp, Francis G.
Knapp, George W.. Knapp, Sophia A.. Knecht, Henry S ..
Knight, Burgoyne. Knight, Charles H. Knight, Charles W. Knight, Isaac P .. Knight , Matthew A. Knight, Roy E.. Knighten, Joseph E. Knowles, Eli W.. Knox, Robert T. Koch, Catharine . Kohl, Jacob..
Kohler, George W. Kreger, Andrew F. Kreidler, Samuel G. Kress , William.. Kretsinger, David L. Krieger, Peter C .. Kriner, Frederick. Krom, John H.. Krueger, August. Kruger, Nettie G.. Krumdick, Heinrick.
Küchler, Mary... Kumler, Sarah A.. Kunkel, Ferdinand . Kures, Jacob.. Kurz, Frederick . La Coste, Edward . La Forge, Andrew .. La Vaque, John H..

INDEX.

Page.
1756 1804 2068 2016 1816 1789 1533 2634 2253 1446 2059 2253 2042 2128 2641 2098 1-586 2745 2685 1664 2422 2214 2640 1736 1729 2551 2035 2607 2420 2400 2533 1968 2433 1794 1811 2517 2130 2819 1801 2619 1463 1451 1946 1788 1452 1443 1574 1611 2123 2650 1944 1470 2751 2400 2064 2017 2256 1491 1625 1807 2496 2390 2256 2390 1686 2574 2455 2624 2547 2719 2572 1734 2682

Pensions-Continued. increased-continued . Labatt, Elizabeth L. H. Lacey, Beverly McK Ladd, Wesley J.. Lafontaine, Robert..
Lakin, George W.. Lambert, Calvin .. Lambert, Martha M. Lambert, Samuel .. Lamont, Joseph.. Lamoreau, Daniel R. Lamoreux, Pardon B.
Lamphere, Perry. Lamprey, Daniel . Lamson, Edwin K. Lander, Charles.. Lander, Francis A. Landes, Henry F Lane, Andrew J.. Lane, Carel. Lane, John D. Lane, Wilbur F. Lane, William W. Lang, Jerome.. Langdon, Samuel J. Langeneck, Ernest.. Langford, John W. Langley, Orlando H. Langmaid, Samuel.
Lape, Philip... Large, William J. Larick, Andrew. Larkham, Emily J. Larned , Ellen S.. Larraby, William. Larrance, Joseph S. Larsen, Berge... Larsen, Bottol.. Larson, Severt.
Lasley, George W. Lasley, Parthena . Latham, Calvin M. Latham, Parris J.. Lathrop, Albert .. Laudahn, William . Laudner, Sabastian . Laughner, Elias.. Launt, Albert.. Lavender, Martha.. Law, Elizabeth S.. Lawder, James M.. Lawley, James J.. Lawrence, Cornelius H. Lawrence, Gilson.. Lawrence, Joseph.. Lawrence, Oliver.. Lawrence, Sidney A. Lawrence, William.. Lawson, Nathan.... Lawton, Matilda E.
Layton, Wesley . Le Hundra, Frederick . Le Suer, Melvin L.. Leach, James D... Leach, William A. Leahy, John E ...
Leak, Adam... Leathers, Charles.. Leavitt, John .. Lebo, James ... Ledgerwood, Samuel . Lee, Arthur M.. Lee, Charles . Lee, Charles .

3531
Page.
1626 2213 . 2279 2383 2163 2142 2420 2201 2270 2785 2178 2755 2116 2148 1544 2554 1677 2170 2363 2765 2054 1458 2180 1942 2206 1555 2145 2775 2623 2621 2335 2718 1552 2348 1981 2393 1732 2530 2506 2496 2075 2328 1521 2062 1538 2728 2625 2476 1542 2334 2769 2506 1916 2190 2356 1918 2104 2533 1668 2607 1538 2315 1979 2553 2321 2596 2334 1457 1657 2661 2074 2050 2590

3532
Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Lee, John B .. Lee, Melissa S. Lee, Melvin J.. Lee, Pinkney W. H. Lee , Richard H. Lee, William.. Lee, William H. Leech, Robert K. Lefler, William A. Leftwich, Camillus B. Legro, Joseph W. Lehn, John. Leighton, Gancelo . Leipnitz, William . Leiser, Abraham G.. Leiter, John H ... Leland, Louise J. D. Lemly, John... Lemon, Stephen E. Lendsay, James W. Lengle, Jonathan.. Lennon, Michael . Lennox, Lewis ... Lent, Byron .. Leonard, Lide S .. Leopold , Andrew. Lepine, Louis........ Lesley, Margaret . Leslie, James E. Leslie, Thomas H. Lester, John T.. Lettenmayer, Helen C .. Letts, William F.
Leuckart, Maria.. Levi, Andrew J. Leviness, Emma.. Levis, Harriett I: Levy, Orlando L.. Lewis, Albert H. Lewis, Atticus ... Lewis , James H. Lewis, Jesse.. Lewis, John S .. Lewis, Luke M .. Lewis, Slater D..
Lewis, Timothy B. Lewis, William.. Lewis, William H. Lezenby, John.. Libby, Lorenzo D. Liddell, Robert . Liddle, John T. Lieb, Hermann . Lienallen , Jesse . Lightcap, Algernon .. Likens, Samuel .. Lilley, Edward .. Limbird, Richard .
Limpert, George C. Limpus, William F. Lincoln, Lucius A. Lincoln, Mary E. Lincoln, William A. Lindenbower, Wheeler.. Lindsey, David . Lindsey, Thomas J. Lindt, John .. Linehan, Michael .. Lines, John .... Lingenfelder, John . Linn, Hiram .. Linnahan , James W. Linsday, John C ..

INDEX .

Page.
1931 1433 1620 1629 1920 1617 1862 2708 2377 1432 1631 2596 2347 1592 1981 2789 1831 2384 2281 2741 1792 2077 2337 1454 1493 2215 2033 2791 2609 2407 2370 2452 2716 1830 1777 1462 2342 2249 1685 2470 1633 2500 2444 2449 1688 2688 2767 1724 1435 1794 2766 1488 1689 1899 1518 2160 1915 2619 2475 1774 1447 1929 1728 1873 2024 1769 2118 1484 1779 2247 1870 1850 2022

Pensions- Continued . increased- continued . Lipes, Catharine.......... Lisk, Cassius... Little, Jacob. Little, Jennie. Little, Joseph W. Littlefield, Nancy. Littleton, Sarah J. Litzinger, Dennis A. Livingston, Arantha J Locker, Edmund A. Lockhart, John H. Lockwood, Hiram H.
Lofton, Sophronia.. Logan, Andrew M.
Logan, Henry.. Logan, John .. Logan, John M .. Logan, Odilia.. Logan, Ransom L..
Lokerson, Hugh.. Lomax, Angeline R .. Lombard, Norman W. Lonergan, Thomas . Long, Abraham G.. Long, George F. Long, Hiram .. Long, Isaac N. Long, Jacob J. Long, James M. Long, John.. Long, Samuel C .. Long, Susan M.. Long, William C. Long, William H.. Longendycke, Lucas.. Longfellow, Charles F. Longsdorf, David E ... Longstaff, Hugh.. Longsworth, Jacob M. Loomis, Anna M. Loomis, James W. Loomis, Mary. Loosley, Daniel . Lorance, William H. Loranger, Amos J .. Lorch, Maria. Lord, Charles P .. Lord, Napoleon D. O Lord, Thomas M.. Losure, Mariot .. Lounsberry, Joshua M. Lounsberry, William . Lounsbury, Margaret E Louther, William.. Love, Henry B.. Love, John M. Lovell, John L. Lovens, John A Lowary, Daniel V. Lowe, Esther M.. Lowell, John W.
Lowell, Joseph W Lowry, Alexander M, Lowry, Eada... Lowry, Lewis . Lowry, Libbie D. Lowry, Samuel R. Lowry, Thomas.. Loy, Samuel.. Loyd, William H.. Lucas, Alfred E .. Lucas, Amanda .
Lucas, George W.

Page.
2817 1447 2608 1683 2700 2666 2334 2236 2176 2639 1881 2688 1763 2191 1550 2064 2085 1525 1466 1433 2102 1661 2294 1911 1963 1734 2002 1617 1444 1914 1533 2249 2217 2726 2319 1554 1534 1611 1609 2421 2170 2559 2426 1605 2562 2752 2048 1528 2630 1941 1931 1546 2288 1908 2742 1813 1563 2190 1593 1898 2751 2278 1865 1751 1743 2531 1894 1669 2806 2491 2512 1940 1829

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued . Lucas, Robert B.. Lucas, William..
Ludlow, Volney P. Ludwig, Catharine .
Lufft, Henry.. Lufkin, Edwin B.. Lull, Phineas F. Luman, Thomas M. Lunn, Edward H.. Lunsford, Jeremiah . Lusk, Ebenezer .
Lusk, Mary W. Lydy, Horace E. Lyle, John A.. Lynch, Francis M. Lynch, Jacob H. Lynch, John.. Lynn, Payton S. Lynn , Walter. Lyon, Albert E. Lyon, Charles M. Lyon, William A.
Lyons, Benjamin. Lyons, Charles W. Mabee, John R .. Mabry, Adline . McAdoo, Margaret A. McAllister, William B. McAnally, Robert.. McAtee, William J. McAteer, Simon . McBeth, William. McBride, John F. McBride, Joseph.. McBride, Thomas. McCabe, Enoch . McCabe, Thomas .. McCain, John H. McCallin, Harvey . McCalvy, Robert . McCandless, John .. McCann , Ruth J McCann, William . McCardel, Eliza J. McCarter, Daniel N. McCarthy, Patrick . McCarthy, Richard . McCaslin, John . McCaughen, John . McCauley, Mary F. McCay, William M. McClary, John S. McClaskey, Edward J. McClellan , Theodore.. McClory, Andrew.
McClung, George H.. McClung, Lafayette H. McClure, Cinderella B. McConnell, Abiram P. McConnell , Alexander F McConnell , Daniel . McConnell, John .. McConnell, Mary J. McCorkle, James M. McCorkle, Mildred . McCormick, George W. McCormick, Peter.. McCormick, Samuel C .. McCormick, Thomas.. McCoy, John ... McCoy, John .. McCoy, John R. McCoy, Zerelda N.

INDEX.

Page.
2733 1813 1815 2499 2637 2666 1548 2618 2538 1938 1928 2797 1619 2096 1832 2065 2482 1444 1836 1545 2228 2604 2628 1866 1802 2446 2539 2047 1675 2300 2531 1782 2325 2241 2386 2159 1519 2575 2578 1843 1972 1765 1854 2400 2418 2090 1530 2542 1825 1975 1629 2170 1581 1827 1500 2687 2203 2801 2373 1508 2700 2016 1693 1842 2149 1440 2540 2370 1947 1791 1659 2448 1833

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . McCracken, James . McCracken, Lytle.. McCracken, Melissa.. McCraw, William . McCrea, William ..
McCready, Dennis Buckley . McCredie, David .. McCrillis, John R. McCue, Patrick.. McCulley, Isaac A. McCullock, Zeurial.
McCullough, Margaret . McCumber, Robert B. McCune, William H. McCurdy, Samuel D. McDaniel, Augustus . McDaniel , Isaiah . McDermott, Patrick. McDermott, Thomas.. McDermott, Thomas . McDevitt, Henry. McDonald, David F. McDonald, Eugene B. McDonald, Harmon W. McDonald, Isaiah B. McDonald, John .. McDonald, Thomas. McDonald, William A. McDonough, John.. McDonough, John .. McDowell, Augustus . McDowell, Napoleon . McDowell , Thomas.. McDuffee, Dana H. McFadden, John D. McFalls, Franklin
McFarland, Milton .. Macfarlane, John G. C. McFarlane, Mary.. McGarraugh, John T. McGarvey, Joseph G. McGaughey, Jacob .. McGehee, Mary J .. McGiffin, Margaret . McGinis, John C .. McGinty, John A.... McGirl, Barney.. MacGowan, Sarah E. McGowan, Thomas .. McGowan, William.
McGregor, George S. McHugh, Lawrence . McIntosh, Curtis B.
McJunkin , Hugh K. McKay, Elizabeth A. McKean, Eliza A.... McKee, James .. McKeever, John .. McKeever, William P. McKelvy, James .. McKeney, Stewart . McKenna, James.. McKenney, Charles H. McKenzie, William .. McKibban, Isaac G. McKibben, Dudley. McKiernan , Robert E. McKim, Mary T.
McKinney, Samuel.
McKnight, Eugene V. McKnight, John .... McLain, George H .. McLain, Oliver N..

3533
Page.
2026 2158 2464 1442 2239 1491 2147 1852 * 1447 2176 2582 2315 2454 2063 2494 1991 1853 1797 2808 2376 2635 1573 1893 2353 1890 1779 1853 1608 2217 1984 2124 1783 2497 2436 1446 2317 2204 1682 2095 1664 1457 1679 1511 2046 2597 2281 1664 1536 2140 1699
1433 2495 1538 2694 2110 2373 1752 1680 2674 2014 2177 1985 /1976 1737 2759 2087 1899 1874 1480 2128 2683 2425 2288

3524
Pensions Continued. increased-continued .
Foster, Joseph W. Foster, Margaret E. Foster, Mary A.. Foster, Mary O .. Foster, Samuel . Foster, Samuel H. Foster, William.. Foulk, Rachel A. Fountain, William H. Foutty, Thomas B.. Fowler, George M. Fowler, James W. Fowler, Noah C. Fowler, Susan N. Fowlkes, Calvin B Fox, Charles B .... Fox, Emily.... Fox, Henry Jacob. Fox. John .. Fox, John . Fox, William. Fox, William C.. Frahm, August .. France, Isaac C .. Francis, George A. Franklin , William H. Franks, Lafayette .. Franz, Jacob ... Fraser, Angus .. Frasier, Francis H. Frayer, Andrew J. Frazer, George M.. Frazier, James.. Frazier, Samuel H. Frederick, Clarissa A Freeland, Fleming H. Freeman, Edwin .. Freeman, Harmon .. Freeman, Laura M. Freeman, Maitland J. Freeman, Orrin .. Freeman, Susan R. Freeman, William. Freese, Charles J.
French, Benjamin . French, Daniel .. French, Joseph . French, Lucian W
Frett, John, jr .. Frick, John.. Friebele, Frederick . Fried, Richard T. Friend , Charles H.
Frier, Arby.. Fritts, William E .. Frizelle, Matilda C .. Frost, Charles R.. Frost, John W. Fuchs, Sebastian . Fuhrman, John L. Fuller, Alden .. Fuller, Alonzo W. Fuller, Daniel.. Fuller, Henry A.
Fuller, Joseph.. Fuller, Oscar A Fuller, Sarah Elizabeth .
Fulmer, Harvey J. Fulton , Charles W Fulton. Robert L.. Furey, Thomas.. Furlong, William . Furman, Jesse M.

INDEX.

Page.
1689 1779 1867 2671 1436 1822 2497 1560 2736 2291 2318 1903 1831 2262 2774 1838 2303 1889 2270 2396 2200 2186 1754 1970 1484 1747 2231 1855 2684 1745 2759 1740 1500 1913 2341 2180 2142 2019 2670 1485 2528 2194 2776 2452 1699 2512 2063 1919 2333 2189 1892 1639 1716 1881 1703 1937 1927 2528 2524 2045 1846 2694 2544 2766 2119 2763 2587 1669 1578 2197 1784 1485 1650

Pensions- Continued . increased- continued . Fyffe, Willa... Gaffney, Patrick . Gage, Marshall U. Gage, Theodoric . Gahan, John W Gain, Lucinda.. Galbraith, Cate F. Galbraith, Sarah F. Galligan, Edward W. Gallion, William R.. Galloway, Sarah A Galloway, Virginia C. Gamble, Harvey... Gamble, James L.. Game, Charlotte..
Gangwer, Stephen.. Gannon, James... Gardener, George . Gardner, Anna M.. Gardner, Asa A.. Gardner, Henry G.. Gardner, James H.. Gardner, James M.. Gardner, Orrin A. A. Gardner, Robert D. Garland, Darius E..
Garland, Joseph P. Garland, Rebecca. Garnsey, Francis D. Garrett, Elias W.. Garrett, William S.. Garrison, Silas .. Garrison , William H. Garritt, James M. Garst, Samuel S. Garvey, Dominick. Garvey, Patrick. Gaskey, Andrew J. Gaskill, Eugene,
Gaskill, George H. Gaskill, Harvey.. Gates, Jonathan F. Gates, Levi ... Gates, Theodore W. Gatewood, Elison .. Gaudineer, Frederick P. Gaunt, Mary Ann .. Gaus, Michael.. Gause, Elmira M. Gautier, William H. Gay, Joel.. Gaylord, George . Gaynor, William. Gearey, George W. Gearkee, Alice . Geary, Michael J.
Geduldig, Henry A. Gee, Francis .. Geiger, Jacob A. Gein, Louis H.. Gemmill, John . Gentles, Henry . George, John .. George, Lewis S. George, Zachariah . Gerard, John B.. Gerhardt, Sebastian . Gersteneker, Jacob W. Getter, Jacob B. Ghrist, Sarah L.. Gibbon , Ellen A. Gibbons. John .. Gibbs, Richard J.

Page.
2496 2136 1724 2789 2497 1801 1751 1739 2426 1923 2386 1801 2144 2194 2510 2474 1821 2138 1465 2664 1580 1836 2786 2075 2105 2395 2226 1468 2217 2720 1933 2599 2606 1659 1875 2580 1454 2297 1641 1860 14391633 2292 2670 2510 2655 1614 2516 2100 2029 2194 1690 1750 1490 1588 2759 2346 1449 1511 2156 1786 1999 2794 1942 1800 1883 2761 1963 2737 2062 1854 1588 2729

Pensions-Continued .

increased-continued .

Gibson, Appleton ..

Gibson, George ..

Gibson , George C. Gibson, Louisa C..

Gibson, Milo G...

Gibson, Timothy H.

Gibson , William.

Giffen, John..

Gifford, Lestina M.

Gilbert, John M.

Gilbert, Leander.

Gilbert, William H.

Gilborne, Davis..

Gilbrech, Jacob.

..

Gildersleeve, William H.

Gilham , Henry..

Gillam , Burrell H.

Gillam, Daniel W.

Gillem , Mary J. Gillen, Stephen.. Gillespie, Edward . Gillespie, William O. Gilliland, John M .. Gillispie, John E Gilman, Lemuel O. Gilmore, Isaac B.. Gilmore, Kate .. Gilpatrick, Thomas W Gilrain, Michael F.
Gilson, George W.. Ginther, John ..... Gipson , William A. Girdler, Joseph.. Girdler, William.. Girvan, William J. Glaspie, Andrew P. Glavis, Loucette E. Glazner, Sion B .. Glisan, William R.. Goble, Mary M.. Godwin, William T. Goebel, Christian H. Goebel, Valentine .. Gogin, Richard . Golder, Henry.. Good, Christian M. Good , Henry. Good , Mary A. Goode, Joseph J. Goodell, Edwin R. Goodell, Hiram N. Goodier, John R.. Gooding, John ..
Goodlander, Henry Goodrich, Samuel B. T. Goodsell, Jerome .. Goodwin, Emma E. Gootee, Thomas N.
Gordon, Ephraim A. Gordon, George H.. Gordon, George W. Gordon , Isaac.. Gordon, John Ard . Gorton, Elizabeth . Gough, John F. Gould, Abbie B. Gould, Elijah G. Grabill, Ira... Graffam, William T. Graham, Anderson ... Graham, Arthur... Graham , Ellen R.

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -59

INDEX .

Page.
1611 1603 2686 2106 1720 2799 1976 2121 1820 2550 2105 1969 2724 2800 1720 .1763 2756 2476 2372 1462 1938 1684 2712 2362 1761 2762 1853 2704 2779 1949 2084 1834 1729 2513 2240 2213 1589 1618 1467 2399 1820 1920 2646 2810 1836 2350 1871 1926 2085 1527 1966 2500 2785 2560 2688 1682 2172 2638 1453 2086 2197 2350 2225 1792 2779 1784 2100 .1733 2672 2518 2642 1478

Pensions- Continued . increased -continued . Graham, Jacob A.. Graham, James ..  Gramberg, Mary. Grandaw, William H.. Grandy, Melvin . Grant, John J. Grant, Julia P. Grant, Lewis A. Grant, William. Grass, Harman . Graves, Sewell F. Gray, Charles P. Gray, Frank N Gray, James.. Gray, Marcena C. S.
Gray, Washington D. Gray, William E .. Gray, William S.. Grayson, James D. Grayson, John T. Greeley, Almond . Green, Charles . Green, Ella B.
Green, George K. Green, George S. Green, George W. Green, Hugh. Green, John.. Green, Louis . Green, Nathaniel . Green, Philo .... Green, Thomas J. Green, Walter.. Greene, Catharine A.
Greene, Mary.. Greene, Walter D. Greenlee, Samuel .
Greer, Benjamin F. Gregg, G. Annie .. Gregg, Playford . Gregory, Eleanor . Gregory, Horace A Gregory, John .. Grell, Jacob . Grier, Josiah M. Griese, Wilhelm . Griffeth, Milton A
Griffin, George W. Griffin, James H. Griffin, Robert Henderson . Griffith, David D. Griffith, Thomas . Griffith, Thomas M. Griffith, William F. Grimm, John ........ Grimsley, Amelia E. Grissom, Joseph C .. Griswold, Isaac L... Griswold , Lester M. P. Grizzle, James... Grogan, Harriet E. Grover, Andrew J. Groves, Andrew H. Grow, William J. Gude, Alfred .. Guile, Charles H .. Guiney, Jeannette M. Guion, William R.. Guiott, Joseph... Gunderson, Ole. Gunselman , Valentine.. Gurnee, Jonas ..

3525
Page.
2399 1533 2354 2727 1931 1513 2363 2440 2706 2721 1973 2252 1694 2003 2463 2432 2478 2421 2530 2771 2151 2399 2278 2114 2189 2575 1725 1811 2646 2426 2056 2649 1837 2631 1468 2438 1722 1904 2118 1774 1992 1858 2546 2681 1572 -2192 2058 2373 1802 1761 1631 1743 2536 1872 2493 1880 1708 2653 2714 1766 1671 2280 2578 1501 2106 2178 2503 1747 2059 2727 1904 2460

3534
Pensions- Continued. increased -continued. McLauchlan, Lizzie M. McLaughlin, Thomas .. McLaughlin, Thomas G.. McLean, Samuel B .. McLoney, Luke.. McMahon, Francis .. McMahon, Jane... McMahon, Mary. McMahon, Patrick . McManis, James . McManus, Amos . McMichael, W. P. McMillan, Fergus P. McMillen, Robert.. McMullen, Robert. McNabb, John O .. McNabb, William . McNair, William .. McNamee, Catharine.
McNary, Josephine D. McNaughton, Hugh.. McNeil, Gertrude..
McNulty, Joseph.. McPeek, Thomas. McPherran, Alfred . McQuade, James ... McReynolds, James T. McReynolds, N. Delmont . McRoy, William C ....... McSwain, Joseph..
McTwiggan, James McWhorter, Alexander.. McWhorter, James B .. McWhorter, John .. McWilliams, Jacob. Macello, Antonio .. Mackey, Thomas J. Macy, Ann E .. Macy, John P. Maddocks, Joseph G.. Maddox, Elizabeth . Maddox, George H. Maddox, Mary E. Madison, John W. Magee, David F. Magee, David W. Maginley, Thomas . Maginnis, John . Mahaffey, Joseph C. Mahaffey, William C.
Mahaney, Henry W. Mahany, Susan .. Maher, Mária A.. Mahoney, Michael . Mahoney, Patrick . Maier, Michael.. Mailey, Edward . Maines, Isaac.. Maison, John B. Mallalieu, William H. H. Mallorie, William U. Malone, Adaline H. Malone, Fannie E. Malone, John A.. Malone, Robert B. Malone, Sarah V. Manahan, Michael. Manahan, Thomas. Manice, Albert.. Mankin, William C. Manley, Horace A.. Manley, John .. Manly, Samuel .

INDEX .

Page.
1637 1450 1776 2237 1798 2391 1499 1757 2582 2001 1665 2254 2480 2762 1465 2553 1548 1438 2614 1983 2696 2263 2459 2610 1634 2236 2436 2606 2107 1500 2131 2778 1970 1626 2376 2251 1453 2739 2529 2600 2303 2783 2385 1973 1490 1648 1517 2781 2333 2106 2434 2684 2196 2292 1864 2548 2799 2180 2382 2171 1578 2507 1848 1739 1748 2205 1901 1463 2641 2212 1974 2652 2754

Pensions -Continued . increased -continued . Mann, Alonzo P.. Mann , Ervin F.. Mannes, Mathias. Manney, Isabel . Manning, Denis A. Manning, Mary M. C .. Manning, Thomas B. Mansfield, S. Amanda. Manson, Augusta N. Many, Artemas D.. Maple, Benjamin.. Marah, John.. Marble, Ephraim. Marcum, James H Marean, John W.
Marlett, Wellington .. Marquis, Lewis.. Marquis, Neeta H. Marsden, William H.
Marsh, Benjamin F. Marsh, Cynthia.. Marsh, Lyman.... Marsh, Milton .. Marsh, Thomas D. Marshall , Horace P. Marshall, James.. Marshall, Jennie H. Marshall, John W. Marshall, Samantha B. Marshall, William P. Martin, Elizabeth J.. Martin, George G.. Martin, George H. Martin, Henry W. Martin, Ida L Martin, James . Martin, Jehu .. Martin , Job F. Martin, John D.
Martin, Joseph Henry. Martin, Joseph Jones.. Martin, Owen.. Martin, Robert . Martin , Thomas . Martin, Thomas J. Martin, William . Martin , William M. Martine, Charles .. Mason, Columbus B. Mason, Granville P. Mason, Lorenzo D.
Mason, Mary B. Mason, Orange S. Massey, Drucillar A. Massey, Thomas G.. Matchett, Alexander . Matheney, Michael.. Matheny, Ashford R. Matheny, Francis D. Matheny, John C.. Mather, John... Mather, John A.. Mathers, Waitman T.
Mathes, Mary E.. Mathews, Abraham . Mathews, Charles A. Mathis, Mary T. Matimore, Catherine. Matlack, Martha G.. Matter, Henry. Mattern, Franklin G. Matthews, Louisa R. Matthews, Robert R.

Page.
2725 2744 2624 2755 2273 1524 2473 1789 1807 1979 2652 1951 1882 2595 2379 1485 2212 1738 1686 1539 2623 1448 1506 2729 2436 2656 2703 2049 2211 1841 1811 2795 2768 2642 2080 1741 2014 2374 2517 1789 1568 1928 2499 1820 1611 2029 1572 2231 2434 1537 1748 2377 1637 2015 . 1687 2525 1510 1864 2614 1868 1833 2048 2294 2317 1579 2775 2578 2445 2602 2693 1734 2769 1794

Pensions-Continued . increased - continued . Mattison, William.. Mattucks, Gatsey.. Maulsby, Thomas A. Mavity, Wesley A. J. Maxham, Lowell M. Maxwell, Edward .
Maxwell , Henry C. Maxwell, William H. May, David C .. May, Enoch .. May, M. Belle . May, Rosanna A. Maybury, George . Mayes, Minerva A. Mayfield, Robert F. Mayhew, Charles H. Maynard, George W. Mays , Eliza J. Mays, Jackson .. Meadows, Samuel .. Meadows, Thomas C. Meadows, William H. Mears, Catherine De Rosset . Mears, Charles M..
Medbury, Harry N. Medworth, Robert.. Meece, Greenup.. Meek, Elizabeth J.
Megrue, Mary A.. Meier, Jacob.. Meister, Katie B.
Meldrim, Mary Jane.. Melick, William G... Melson, John M.. Melton, Jesse J. Melton, John S .. Melvin, Royal T. Menard, Alfred B Menefee, Thomas S .. Meredith, James E.. Meredith, Nancy A.. Mericle, Lawrence Merideth, John J... Merrill, George.. Merrill, James D. Merrill, Sarah J.
Merriman, Elijah R. Merritt, Adelaide D .. Messerschmidt, John C .. Messick, John W .. Metcalf, Edward P.
Metcalfe, Allen D. Mettler, James I. Mevis, Daniel S .. Meyer, Charles . Meyers, Michael .. Michaelis, Edward . Michener, Preston J.
Mickler, Mary A Middaugh, Fredrick . Miles, Edward V.. Miles, John S .. Miles, Levi.. Miles, William H. Miller, Abraham H. Miller, Alexander.. Miller, Amon ...
Miller, Anthony W. Miller, Benjamin S. Miller, Daniel J .. Miller, David .. Miller, Edward C. Miller, Elias..

INDEX.

Page.
2031 1752 1855 2170 2075 1535 1862 2810 2602 2639 2102 2823 2439 2514 2375 1486 2612 2109 2463 1876 1437 2134 2730 1998 2734 2512 2571 1992 1635 1473 1910 2389 2059 2254 2639 1996 2731 1879 1762 2402 2802 1495 1811 2160 2266 1762 2136 2425 1602 2732 1554 2092 1857 2320 2028 2278 1545 2384 2314 2440 1746 1760 2367 1867 1737 1565 1630 2209 1830 1984 2790 2503 2515

Pensions-Continued . increased- continued . Miller, Harriett E. Miller, Henry D.. Miller, Hurd L. Miller, Jabez .. Miller, Jacob Miller, Jacob,. Miller, James A. Miller, James C. Miller, James M. Miller, Jesse S .. Miller, John.. Miller, John Adams . Miller, John K.. Miller, Joseph . Miller, Joseph E. Miller, Levi E. Miller, Margaret S. Miller, Martha . Miller, Mary Jane. Miller, Samuel A. Miller, Thomas . Miller, Webster. Miller, William. Miller, William. Miller, William G. Millett, William J. Milliman, Thomas. Millison, Simon Mills, Edward J Mills, Leonidas E.. Mills, Robert.. Mills, Robert W. Milson , Thomas .. Miltimore, James . Miner, Henry D... Miner, Kate M.. Minnick, John E. Mishler, Joseph J. Misner, John... Mitchell, Andrew T. Mitchell, Catharine R. Mitchell , David... Mitchell, Isaiah.. Mitchell, John C .. Mitchell, John T.. Mitchell, Levi .. Mitchell, Mildred W. Mitchell, Mollie J .. Mitchell, William B. Mobley, Cornelia A. Mohan, Michael . Mohn, John F.. Monaghan, Minor B. Monin, Rawleigh M. Monks, William . Monroe, Hiram E. Monroe, John . Monroe, John . Monroe, William V. Montano, Josefita .. Monteith, William . Montgomery, John W.
Montgomery, Joseph .. Montgomery, Margaret A.. Montgomery, Theodore F. Moody, Charles D.
Moody, Henry. Moody, Thomas L.. Moomaw, James M. Mooney, Elizabeth . Mooney, Patrick.. Moore, Abbie (' . Moore, Alexander.

3535
Page.
2055 1927 2768 1850 2587 2320 2776 1880 1730 2343 2761 2587 1732 1464 1680 2529 2223 1627 2680 2698 2360 2578 2514 1687 2324 1834 1650 2330 1529 2347 2261 2465 2568 2615 2622 2272 2202 1976 2020 2052 1695 2244 1640 2555 2366 2519 1889 2432 1922 1929 1442 2287 2491 2461 1929 1515 2443 1672 2798 2378 1599 2239 2070 2079 2132 2774 2148 2505 1802 2570 2013 1542 2091

3536
Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Moore, David H .. Moore, Eliza .... Moore, Elizabeth . Moore, John D .. Moore, John L Moore, John N. Moore, John P. Moore, Lewis D.
Moore, Mary C.. Moore, Mary C. Moore, Newton.. Moore, Reese.. Moore, Robert S. Moore, Samuel . Moore, Troy.
Moore, Virginia C. Moore, William.. Moorhead, William . Morehart, David .. Morehead, Daniel B. Morehead, William .
Morey, Augustus J.. Morgan, Agusta P. Morgan , Charles F. M. Morgan, Edmund .. Morgan, Edwin .. Morgan, Elizabeth .. Morgan, Elizabeth Moore. Morgan, John M..
Morgan, Mary.. Morgan, William J. Morgan, William M. Moriarty, Bartholomew. Morland, David N.. Morley, Alfred W. Morley, Calvin E ..
Morrill, Alice W.. Morrill, Ezekiel . Morrill, James H. Morris, James M.. Morris, John A.. Morris, John F. Morris, S. Harriet . Morris, Sarah C ... Morris, Thomas . Morris, William H. Morrison, Francis M. Morrison, John H .. Morrison, Matilda. Morrison, Oscar B. Morrison, Samuel H. Morrissey, Daniel .. Morrow, Fannie E. Morrow, James... Morrow, Thomas E. Morrow, William H. Morse, Milo B .. Morson, William .. Morton, Louisa Anne . Morton, Oliver... Mose, Daniel .. Mose, Jacob .. Moser, Samuel .. Moser, William H. Mosher, Silas .. Mosier, Andrew J. Moss, Buford P .. Moss, James ... Mott, Alexander B. Moules, John........ Moulton, Jotham T. Mouser, Thomas B. Mowan, Baltzar ..

INDEX .

Page. Pensions-Continued .

increased -continued .

2560

Mower, George W..

2002

Mowrey, Harley..

1778

Muehlberg, Hermann .

1562

Mueller, Max...

2074

Mull, Edward K.

1776

Mullen, James P.

1686

Mullen, John H ..

2115

Muller, Fritz ....

2238

Mullin , Rose V.

1813

Mullin, Sidney F.

2186

Mullins, Calvin S.

1987

Muncher, Joseph..

1554

Muncy, James W.

2590

Mundy, Mary E.

1675

Munger, Israel E.

2048

Munns, Brice P.

1724

Munson, Francis M.

1438

Munson, Margaret ..

1845

Murch, James A.

2673

Murdough, Samuel C..

2147

Murphy, Edward ..

1911

Murphy, Felix G..

2283

Murphy, James..

2258

Murphy, John E.

1825

Murphy, Sallie H

2115

Murray, Charles T.

1697

Murray, Francis.......

2302

Murray, James C.

2718

Murray, John P..

2454

Murray, Thomas W.

1700

Murray, William A..

2255

Murrey, Elizabeth A

1479

Murtha, James ...

1934

Musgrove, Lucinda C ..

1810

Myers, Catharine..

2401

Myers, George..

2210

Myers, George C...

2278

Myers, Kate..

2178

Myers, Thomas E..

2560

Nagle, William S..

2688

Narrin, William A.

2161

Narrow, Robert L.

1594

Nash, Albert H ..

2358

Nash, Allen J.

2497

Nash, Charles V.

1612

Nash, Daniel D..

2348

Nash, Mary Amanda.

2794

Nash, Susan E ..

2012

Nations, Obediah B.

2218

Natt och Dag, Axel A. M.

2140

Nattinger, Matilda E.

2154

Naus, Samuel ..

1778

Navy, Mary..

2345

Neafus, David B.

1526

Neal, Stephen W.

1713

Neal , William M.

1782

Near, William H.

2576

Neece, George W.

2684

Needham, Edward E.

2376

Neely, Sarah..

2541

Neil, William R.

2757

Neilson, Caroline..

2275

Nelson , Ann R..

2371

Nelson, John C ...

.

1862

Nelson , Thor.

1917

Nesbitt, Annie R. E.

1472

Netser, James E..

1823

Nettleton, Harvey S ..

2479

Neumann, John ...

1740

Nevins, Augustus A..

1828

Newbury, Edward S. E.

1757

Newbury, Joseph B ..

1941

Newell, Jesse C.

Page.
1675 2018 1954 2489 2480 2355 2227 1531 1898 1551 2513 1912 2680 2205 1860 2290 1540 2223 1942 2692 2405 2314 2200 1878 1580 2236 2750 2503 2687 2259 1823 2489 2510 2555 2080 2616 1672 2287 1742 1766 2542 1816 2441 1453 2678 1658 2086 2050 2338 1516 1885 2471 . 2204 1923 1981 2580 1903 1778 1632 2569 2440 1781 1905 2781 2646 1868 2478 2502 2390 1949 2569 1976 2718

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Newlin, Isabel .. Newman, John L.. Newman, Samuel P.. Newman, William S. Newton, George... Niblock, John H. Nichols, Alfred .. Nichols, Amelia.. Nichols, Andrew H. Nichols, Frank N .. Nichols, Joseph.. Nichols, Melville A. Nichols, Orrin D .. Nichols, William A. Nicholson, Josiah.. Niebels, Jacob. Niles, Charles H.
Nix, John..... Nixon, Eliza L.. Noah, Morton M..
Nobinger, Joseph. Noble, Aaron Noble, James H. Noble, James M. Noble, Sallie .. Noblet, Peter... Noggle, Charles L.. North, Granville F. North, Lafayette.. Northrop, Thomas J. Norton, Eliza P. Norton, Fannie P. Norton, Rianzo M. Nortrip, William H. Nortrup, Detrick . Norwood, Eliza L.. Noulton, Levi B ..
Noyes, Joseph A. Noyes, Martin B. Nulton, George... Nunan, James.. Nussbaum, Abram. Nye, George H... Nye, Reuben... Oakman, Isaac... Oatley, Frank J.. Obenshain, Leonidas .. Ober, Isaac Henry. O'Brien, James H.. O'Brien, John D .. O'Bryan, Charles.. O'Bryan, Irwin ........ O'Connor, John.. O'Connor, Musgrove E. O'Connor, Thomas . O'Connor, Thomas O'Day, Patrick . Odear, William H.. Odell , James H.. Odenbaugh, Zelinda E. Odenheimer, John M.. Offinger, Martin .. Ogan , John W. Ogle, Richard M. Oglevie, David .. Ohl, Ephraim N. R. Ohr, Martin L...
Olds, Egbert J. Oleson, Charles W. Olin , Louisa..
Olis, George W. Oliver, John N. Oliver, William.

INDEX .

Page.
2088 2629 1808 1994 2751 2434 2562 1760 1863 2150 1579 2338 2025 2580 1610 2415 1834 2617 2000 1458 1994 1476 1849 1623 2677 2181 1650 2265 2019 2427 2141 1854 2636 1716 1477 1762 1885 1968 1477 1441 1810 2611 2691 2790 2728 1961 2738 1575 2489 1494 2140 1812 2355 2316 1639 1466 2257 1919 2342 2295 1643 2460 2673 1655 1948 1467 2382 2068 1456 2591 2041 2244 2120

Pensions-Continued. increased -continued . Olmsted , William A. Olney, Henry S... Olney, Ruth E... Onan, Warren.. ~ O'Neal, Hugh.. O'Neall, Charlotte S .. O'Neil, Ann.. Oppel, George.. O'Reilly, Margaret. Orem, J. Bailey. Orr, Eliza.. Orr, Eugene.. Orth, Jacob G.. Osborn, Carlon B. Osborn, Susan M.. Osgood , Marvin. O'Shea, Edward . Osterberg, Frank.. Osterheld, Henry.. Osterman, William. O'Tool, Samuel . Ott, David B. Over, Lawrence..
Overley, Mary L. Overton, Isaac .. Overton, Jennie L..
Oviatt, Joseph Q. Owens, David D. Owens, Penina .. Owens, Thomas E. Oxton, Adolphus L.. Oyler, John E.. Packard, Horace F. Packer, Aaron L.. Packer, Albert G.. Padgett, Thomas H. Page, John B. Page, Moses B. Page, Sarah A. Page, Thomas T. Pahl , Ferdinand . Paige, Charles W. Paine, Rufus H. Paine, Samuel .. Paine, Waldo W. Painter, William . Palmer, Cyrus. Palmer, David. Palmer, Gabriel Y. Palmer, Ira.... Palmer, Jacob. Palmer, Noah . Palmer, Samuel . Palmer, Silas N. Pantall, Elijah .
Papst, Rudolph, Papy, Joseph B. Paramore, Edward F. Paris, Andrew Jackson .
Parish, Joseph M.. Parish, Nathan.. Parker, Charles A. Parker, David H. Parker, Elias H. Parker, Frank M. Parker, George A. Parker, Henry B. Parker, John G.. Parker, Sampson . Parker, Sophie S. Parkinson, John C .. Parks, Elizabeth . Parrish, Charles S.

3537
Page.
1961 2126 2423 2806 2782 2544 2618 2249 2759/ 1988 1559 .1874 1644 1594 2246 2429 2012 1782 2524 1602 1590 1866 2699 2186 2207 1528 2318 2239 1990 2083 1546 1791 2752 2344 2109 1863 1879 1784 1497 2245 2751 1501 1459 2262 1549 1464 2708 1438 1806 2168 2642 1477 2176 2442 1869 2362 1549 1974 2134 2605 1736 2645 2088 2419 2053 1543 2365 1562 2238 2108 1885 2016
1660

3538
Pensions- Continued . increased-continued .
Parsons, Ralph D. Parsons, Thomas W. Partin, Elizabeth F. Partridge, Frederick W Passon, John H.......... Patch, Emory Edward . Pate, Robert C.. Patrick, Andrew . Patten, Aaron F. Patterson, Anthony. Patterson, Eleazar A.. Patterson, Emma L.. Patterson, Greenberry B. Patterson, Henry J. Patterson, John P. Patterson , Mary E. Patterson, Mary E. Patterson, Mary H.. Patterson, Thomas .. Pattison, William P. Patton, Alexander G.
Patton, George W. Patton, Mary L. Paul, Indiana A.. · Pavy, Prior M. Paxton, Nellie . Payne, Abel W. Payne, George . Payne, Harriet .. Payne, Sanford D. Peabody, Albert G. , jr . Peabody, Daniel A.
Peabody, George W. Peach, Joseph.. Peacock, Martin . Peacock, Oscar F. Peak, George C .. Pearce, Samuel A Pearson, David M. Pearson, John M. Pearsons, Fanny A. Pease, Henry R. Peavey, Hannah . Peden, Milton.. Peirce, Benjamin F. Peirce, Caroline M. Pelley, James S.. Pence, Daniel. Pence, John A. Pender, Lucy A.. Pendergast, Michael . Penfield, William H. Pepoon, Albert F. Pepper, Samuel . Perkins, Henry W. Perkins, Isaiah.. Perkins, Lewis S. Perrin, Noah.. Perry, Isaac N. Perry, S. Horace . Pert, Dell E.. Peters, Annie E.. Peters, John H.. Peterson, Borre.. Peterson, Christian . Peterson, Emily.. Peterson, Jacob D. Petherbridge, Sarah A. Petitt, Chalkley .. Pettey, Joseph B. Pettie , David T. Pettingill, Frank S. Pettit, Arethusa M.

INDEX .

Page.
2596 2586 1628 1645 2545 1610 1753 1495 1944 2641 1461 2251 2704 1641 2298 2096 2044 2460 1727 2448 2074 1460 2375 1548 2166 2272 2220 2705 2038 2526 2256 2539 2422 2519 2745 2588 2496 2276 1635 2234 2261 1665 2689 2488 1662 2027 1578 1758 2500 1797 2492 2794 2425 1908 1676 2623 1981 2402 1759 2060 2420 1731 2703 2531 1775 1540 1785 2120 1473 2375 2117 1756 2046

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued .
Pettit, Bessie Sharp. Pevear, Sylvester O Pfahl, Frederick ..
Phelon, Josephine B. Phelps, Elias ... Philbrick, Maria L. Philbrick, William B. Philbrook, Daniel M. Phillips, Charles A. Phillips, Edwin R.
Phillips, Guthridge L.. Phillips, Isaac C. Phillips, James H. Phillips, Richard, jr . Phillips, Seth... Phillips, Thomas. Piccard, Francis. Pick, Levi ... Picket, Thomas . Pickett, Thomas J. Pickle, Jacob M..
Pieper, Henry. Pieper, John... Pierce, Franklin C. Pierce, George W. Pierce, Jacob W. Pierce, James O. Pierce, Oliver P. Pierce, Ruth P.. Pierce, Simeon.. Piersell , Joseph N Piggott, James T. Pike, Fannie L.. Pike, George .. Pile, Reanna..
Pillow, Elizabeth . Pinkham, Orlando C.. Pinney, Edward H .. Pint, Margaret ... Pitchford, William H. Pitman , Amanda . Pitman, John H .. Pitt, Chester R.. Pittenger, Winni C. Pittman, Jeremiah F. Place, Isaac .. Place , Susie... Plato, Florence B. Platt , John ..
Platt, Mary S .. Platt, Sterns D.. Pletzke, Christopher.. Plimpton, Julia L.. Plotner, William McHenry. Plumpton, Ephraim ... Plybon, James C.. Plymate, Nathaniel W. Poffenberger, Hezekiah . Pohlers, Sophie.. Polk, Charles G.. Polk, Ezekial . Pollard, Joseph . Polston, Alexander D.
Pomeroy, Fanny G ,. Pool , James .. Pool, Martin . Pool . Wilson J. Pope, James V. Pope, Simeon D. Porter, Alexander. Porter, Frances L.. Porter, George.. Porter, Henry.

Page.
2700 2694 2465 2052 2113 2743 1677 2000 1587 2611 2629 2268 2807 1588 1562 2654 1500 1679 1431 · 1953 1937 2523 1449 1497 1904 2522 2392 2289 1957 2040 1979 2716 2427 1489 1618 2655 1642 1602 2574 1731 2012 2232 2579 1726 2592 1804 1496 2262 2072 2750 1431 1522 1641 2710 1437 1434 1892 2764 2042 1857 1615 1702 1790 2193 2644 2067 1487 1830 2593 2518 1936 2277 1729

Pensions -Continued . increased - continued . Porter, Jonathan K. Porter, Richard N
Portwood, Dudley . Posey, James H.. Post, James E.... Post, Lewis J. Pott, Zacus P.
Potter, Alice Eddy. Potter, Anna Z..
Potter, Mary G. Potter, Norman C..
Potter, Page G... Pound, Joseph M. Powell, George C.. Powell, John A.. Powell, Lucy W. Power, Charles A.
Power, Henry.. Powers, James.. Prater, James F. Prather, Alonzo S. Pratt, Charles H. Pratt , Josiah N Pratt, Lewis.. Pratt, Louise J. Pratt, Morton A. Preble, Turner J. Preisinger, Fred..
Prendergast, Joseph H. Prendeville, Charles.. Prentiss, John M.. Prescott, Roswell..
Presley, Anthony W. Preston, Aaron... Preston, Davis . Preston, Francis W. Preston, Hannah A. Preston, Nelson S ... Preston, Samuel .. Preston, Sarah A.... Prettyman, James. Price, Andrew J.. Price, Catharine.... Price, George... Price, James A.. Price, James C.. Price, John G...
Price, Joseph W. Price, Levi L.. Prime, Edward B .. Primrose, Thomas H. Prince, Charles H. Pringle, David R .. Pritchard, Jesse L.. Pritchard, Parker.. Prochel, Samuel.. Proctor, Daniel A. Prose, James 8 .. Prosser, Thomas . Prost, Richard .. Prouty, Thomas J. Province, David . Pruit, Nancy.. Pruitt, Deborah J. Prunkard, David . Pryce, James A.. Puckett, Benjamin J.. Pugsley, Frank. Purcell, Robert . Purdy, George E. Purvis, George W Pusey, James E .. Putnam, William W.

INDEX.

Page.
1893 2589 1793 1766 1462 2078 1805 1891 1547 2671 1731 2451 2031 2023 1913 2100 1600 2491 1479 1541 2267 2518 2760 1619 2248 2762 2596 1458 2404 2754 1858 2255 1559 2539 1982
1786 1713
2110 1699 1466 1550 2796 2029 2329 2128 2627 2650 1444 1995 1506 2351 2213 1527 2437 1831 2321 1692 1989 2342 2602 2532 2474 1955 2180 2787 2570 2589 1920 1516 2733 1490 2752 2453

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Queman, Isaiah.........
Quentin, Josephine E. Quermbeck, Peter.
Quien, George. Quigg, David H. Quigley, William C. Quigley, William S. Quill, Michael Quimby, John J. Quinn, Bridget.. Quinn, Timothy. Quinton, John M. Quist, Andrew P. Rafferty, Ann . Ragan, Alice E..
Ragan, Mary Jane.. Raigle, George W. Rains, John P. Raker, Matthew D. , jr. Ralston, William. Rambo, James T.. Ramsay, Winfield S. Ramsey, James... Ramsey, James .
Ramsey, Mary E.. Ramsey, Rebecca... Ramsey, Robert .. Randall, Darius H.
Randall, Oakaley Randolph, Amelia R.. Randolph, Harrison.. Randolph, Mary E... Raney, James E.... Rankin, David Rankin, David Rankin, Richard B. Ratdin, Jacob C..... Rarick, Orrin S .. Raschig, Gustavus F. E. Rassbach, John C.
Rathbun, George C.. Rattray, Charles.. Rauch, John... Raudabaugh, Emanuel. Rawles, Harriett A..
Rawling, John... Rawlings, John W. Ray, Dennis W. Ray, Isaac N. Ray, Malcolm. Raymond, Nellie .. Raymond , Samuel G. Raymond, Seth . Raynor, John W. Read, Frank H. Read, Helen B.
Reagan, George W. Ream, Benjamin B. Reaney, Annie .... Reavis, Leonidas W. Reavis, Sarah Ann.. Reber, Jonathan B. Rector, Enoch. Rector, James L.. Rector, Julius .. Redding, John . Redfield, Daniel W. Redic, Oliver C... Redmond, William E.. Reece, John... Reed, Andrew C ..
Reed , Benjamin D. Reed, Charles ...

3539
Page.
1585 1563 1841 2557 1432 1847 2289 1946 1621 2146 2627 2104 2124 2474 2553 2244 1430 1897 1557 1747 2195 2259 2128 2083 2021 1750 2264 1579 223016 2454 1931 2347 2107 1660 1861 2477 1582 2214 2332 2114 2343 1765 1649 2370 1942 2165 2797 2002 1678 2062 1550 1745 1560 . 1890 2280 1648 2346 2359 2401 2514 2250 2544 2004 1478 2102 2599 2269 1817 2271 2126 1452 2767 2613

3540
Pensions- Continued . increased -continued . Reed, George W. Reed , Henry. Reed, James . Reed, John W. Reed, Sarah J. Reed, Thomas . Reeder, George H. Reeder, George W. Reeder, James.. Reedy, Peter... Reese, Hannah C. Reese, Patterson . Reese, Samuel M. Reese, William . Reesequie, Noah . Reess, Elizabeth S. Reeve, Leander C.
Reeves, Christopher C. Reeves, Samuel.. Reger, Henry Loor. Reich, Emilie Grace.
Reid , Hugh... Reid , Nancy G.. Reidy, Bridget.... Reighter, Theodore F. Remick, John........... Remington, Dennis . Renell, Charles W. Reppeto, James .. Rerick, Isaac L..
Reuter, Henry F. Reynolds, Hannah O. Reynolds, Hezekiah J. Reynolds, James W. Reynolds, Lizzie G. Reynolds, Luke..
Reynolds, Mary J. Reynolds, Richard . Reynolds, Silas A. Rhoads, Oliver H. P Rhoads, William H. Rhodes, George.. Rhodes, Henry J. Rhodes, Hinman . Rhodes, Samuel . Rice, Ebenezer E. Rice, Elizabeth H. Rice, George H. Rice, Henry J.. Rice, Job... Rice, Joseph S. Rice, Samuel B. Rice, William F. M. Rich, Jacob ... Richards, Benjamin F. Richards, Isaac . Richards, James . Richards, Oscar F. Richards, William E.. Richardson, Edwin P. Richardson , Nathan B. Richardson, Thomas L.. Richardson, William G. Richardson, William H. Richie, Thomas J.. Richter, George . Rickard, Jacob S .. Rickett, Ebenezer . Ricketts, Andrew. Riddell, Solomon . Riddle, Joseph.. Riedmüller, Anton .. Riggin, William H ..

INDEX .

Page.
1704 2511 2269 1649 2790 1839 2245 1996 2232 2292 1883 2615 2018 2526 2253 2424 1920 2032 2718 2586 1844 2195 2590 1782 2388 2300 2537 1668 2056 1695 2725 2625 2084 1594 1448 2562 1821 1891 2255 2720 2256 2396 2496 1610 2501 1907 2690 1586 2346 1947 1861 2136 1939 1576 2761 2344 2149 2700 2576 2669 1532 2791 1610 2119 2807 1785 2097 1860 1612 1872 2768 1594 2069

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Riggs, Clay.... Riggs, Lycurgus D. Riley, Albert.. Riley, James.. Riley, Mary A. Riley, William J Riley, William L. Riner, Jacob . Ring, Anna.. Risk, Abisha . Risum, Otto A. Ritchie, Amanda W. Riter, Samuel H. W. Rittenhouse, Henry.
Rivers, Mary E. Roach, Albert C. Roache, John W. Robb, John, 1st . Robbe, William P. Robbins, Jason.
Robbins, John H. Robbins, John R. Roberts, Aaron L.. Roberts, Edwin L.. Roberts, Henry.. Roberts, Jacob M. F. Roberts, John A...
Roberts, Joseph J. Roberts, Lloyd ... Roberts, Richard A.. Roberts, Samuel G. Roberts, Sophronia.. Roberts, Thomas M. Robertson, James.. Robertson, Louisa E. Robey, Thomas... Robinson, George L.. Robinson, George W. Robinson, Henry M. Robinson, Joseph A. Robinson, Joseph C. Robinson, Louis C .. Robinson, Stephen . Robinson, William H. H. Roche, Redmond.. Rockwell, Alpheus A. Rockwell, Garrett P. Rockwell, Matilda.. Rockwood, Aaron L. Rockwood, Moses S. Rodefer, George W. Rodeheaver, George H. Rodenberger, William R .. Roe, Andrew J. Roe, Samuel C
Roessler, Christian . Rogers, Eliza ...
Rogers, George . Rogers, Josephine . Rogers, Julius D. Rogers, Mary A. Rogers, Ruth E.
Rogers, Stephen H. Rolfe, Eugene W. Rone, Nathaniel H.
Roraback, George R Rosbrugh, Michael.. Roschdiantzky, Frederick . Rose, Allan S... Rose, Daniel M. Rose, Henderson . Rose, Joseph.. Roseberry, John S ..

Page.
2098 2227 2461 2774 2241 1701 2068 2793 2222 1925 1952 2231 2766 1770 2248 2472 1526 2357 2784 1461 2557 2795 2277 2327 1525 2735 1522 2344 2798 2164 1847 1936 2284 2374 2757 1510 2320 2762 1563 2465 1466 1999 2534 1951 2525 1439 2726 1742 1975 2204 2536 2146 2620 2026 2340 2498 2076 2024 1715 1569 2569 2666 2336 2756 1765 2459 2440 2287 2615 1522 1609 2398 2332

Pensions Continued . increased-continued . Rosencrans, John L .. Ross, D. Lanning... Ross, David .. Ross, Edward .
Ross, George E. Ross, George F. Ross , James... Ross, John J. Ross, Wilkison B. Ross, William I .. Rothrock, Bronson . Rothrock, George W.
Rouge, Joseph.. Rourke, Garrett.. Rouse, Oren S .. Rout, James... Rowan, John G.. Rowan, Thomas. Rowe, Emma.. Rowe, Samuel .. Rowe, William T. Rowell, Moses .. Royal, Luther M. Royer, John A.. Rubert, Martin A.. Ruby, James S.. Ruch, Solomon R.
Rucker, Margaret A. Ruddick, Scott .. Ruddock, Nathan S. Ruhle, George .. Rumrill, Lucius . Runkel, Amos M.. Runnels Charles F
Rupert, Joseph . Rush, Otis E...
Russ, Maggie D. Russell, Amanuel .
Russell, Henry.. Russell, Milton .. Russell, Ransom C. Rust, Franklin.. Ruth, James... Rutherford, Carrick. Rutherford, Elizabeth .
Rutledge, Hugh R .. Rutter, John .. Ryan, James W. Ryan, Mary. Ryckman, William H. Rykard, Mary Isabella .. Sackett, George C .. Saeger, Milton A.. St. Clair, Benjamin . St. John, Montezuma. Salat, Jacob.. Salisbury, Henry G.. Sallade, Thomas W. Sallee, William T. Salmon, Sarah.. Salsberry, James S. Saltar, Martha E. Sampson, Franklin Sanborn, Corydon W. Sanborn, Henry. Sanborn, True, jr . Sancrainte, Charles F. Sanders, John V.
Sanders, Joseph B. Sanders, Mary S. Sanders, Seldon R. Sanders, William .. Sanderson, Helen C ..
VOL XXXIV , PT 3- -60

INDEX .

Page.
2535 2681 2026 1987 1512 1487 2167 2505 2730 2431 2073 2637 2634 1651 2796 2372 1532 1795 1435 2323 2464 2431 1883 1900 2693 2046 1644 1911 2042 1897 2536 2267 1634 1800 1718 2389 1710 1471 1631 2394 2142 2694 1658 1848 1654 2102 2030 1454 1546 2004 2249 1739 1613 2378 2401 2613 1492 1679 2360 2385 2237 1496 2594 2114 1721 2721 2320 1440 2017 2550 2793 1758 1901

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued .
Sanderson, Job B .. Sands, John H. H. Sandusky, Emanuel . Sanford, Aaron C ... Sanford , Martha E. Sannar, Jacob ..
Sanspeur, Anthony . Sargent, George. Sargent, Samuel P. Sarlls, Edward .. Sarvis, John ...... Satterlee, Nelson R. Satterthwait, William H.
Saul, George C.. Saunders, Charles B. Saunders, Rowland .. Saunders, Walter..
Saunderson, James T. Savage, George W. Savage, John.. Sawyer, Hannah A. Sawyer, Joel M.. Sawyer, Moses H. Sawyer, Nathaniel C. Saxton, Amasa B.. Sayles, William B. Saylor, Thomas J. Scannell, Michael .
Scattergood, Joseph . Schadler, Frank ... Scheldt, Emilie . Scherer, Frank.. Schloesser, Philip. Schlosser, Christian . Schlosser, Henry.. Schmitt, Nannie L..
Schmutz, George S. Schneller, John J.
Schnure, Mary Jane .. Schofield, John W.. Schooling, Thomas H. B.
Schoonmaker, Moses.. Schramm, Theodor. Schreiner, Charles J. Schroeders, Edgar.. Schue, Nicholas .. Schultz, Frederick .
Schultz, Jacob .. Schultz, Ludwig. Schultz, Martin . Schwab, Barbara E.. Schweizer, Gottlieb . Scott, Alexander M. Scott, Cyrus W.. Scott, Eliza M.. Scott, George R. Scott, George S. Scott, James.. Scott, John M. Scott, John W. Scott, Joseph. Scott, Joseph E. Scott, Manson B. Scott, Mary H .. Scott, Robert A. Scott, Sarah A. Scott, Sarah C. A. Scroggs , Joseph A. Scrogum, James..
Scrutchfield , James A Scudder, Caroline D. Scullen, William H. Seabold, Josiah H..

3541
Page.
2015 1698 2606 2780 2603 1892 2067 1514 2015 1583 1589 2291 1492 2706 2678 2675 1989 2162 2374 1488 1718 1546 1454 2042 2337 2442 2471 1824 2203 2542 1726 2380 2020 2082 2450 1871 2551 2163 1836 2061 2323 1470 1748 2650 1684 2198 1464 2077 2669 2264 2403 2530 1553 2807 2529 1895 1760 1971 1512 1821 2190 1666 1622 2058 2166 1883 2246 2334 1524 1997 1756 2358 1796

3532
Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Lee, John B.. Lee, Melissa S. Lee, Melvin J. Lee, Pinkney W. H. Lee, Richard H. Lee, William.. Lee, William H. Leech, Robert K. Lefler, William A. Leftwich, Camillus B. Legro, Joseph W.. Lehn, John. Leighton, Gancelo .. Leipnitz, William. Leiser, Abraham G.. Leiter, John H ... Leland, Louise J. D. Lemly, John... Lemon, Stephen E. Lendsay, James W. Lengle, Jonathan .. Lennon, Michael . Lennox, Lewis ... Lent, Byron.. Leonard, Lide S. Leopold , Andrew. Lepine, Louis .. Lesley, Margaret.. Leslie, James E. Leslie, Thomas H.. Lester, John T.. Lettenmayer, Helen C .. Letts, William F.. Leuckart, Maria.. Levi, Andrew J. Leviness, Emma.. Levis, Harriett I : Levy, Orlando L. Lewis, Albert H.. Lewis, Atticus .. Lewis, James H .. Lewis, Jesse.. Lewis, John S .. Lewis, Luke M. Lewis, Slater D. Lewis, Timothy B. Lewis, William.. Lewis, William H. Lezenby, John .. ·Libby, Lorenzo D. Liddell, Robert . Liddle, John T. Lieb, Hermann . Lienallen, Jesse . Lightcap, Algernon . Likens, Samuel . Lilley, Edward . Limbird, Richard . Limpert, George C. Limpus, William F. Lincoln , Lucius A. Lincoln, Mary E.. Lincoln, William A. Lindenbower, Wheeler . Lindsey, David .. Lindsey, Thomas J. Lindt, John.... Linehan, Michael.
Lines, John..... Lingenfelder, John .. Linn, Hiram... Linnahan , James W. Linsday, John C .........

INDEX.

Page.
1931 1433 1620 1629 1920 1617 1862 2708 2377 1432 1631 2596 2347 1592 1981 2789 1831 2384 2281 2741 1792 2077 2337 1454 1493 2215 2033 2791 2609 2407 2370 2452 2716 1830 1777 1462 2342 2249 1685 2470 1633 2500 2444 2449 1688 2688 2767 1724 1435 1794 2766 1488 1689 1899 1518 2160 1915 2619 2475 1774 1447 1929 1728 1873 2024 1769 2118 1484 1779 2247 1870 1850 2022

·

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued . Lipes, Catharine.. Lisk, Cassius.. Little, Jacob. Little, Jennie.
Little, Joseph W. Littlefield , Nancy. Littleton, Sarah J. Litzinger, Dennis A. Livingston, Arantha J. Locker, Edmund A .. Lockhart, John H. Lockwood, Hiram H.
Lofton, Sophronia.. Logan, Andrew M ..
Logan, Henry.. Logan, John ... Logan, John M.. Logan, Odilia... Logan, Ransom L.. Lokerson, Hugh .. Lomax, Angeline R. Lombard, Norman W. Lonergan, Thomas .. Long, Abraham G.. Long, George F .. Long, Hiram ... Long, Isaac N. Long, Jacob J. Long, James M.. Long, John .. Long, Samuel C .. Long, Susan M. Long, William C. Long, William H. Longendycke, Lucas. Longfellow, Charles F. Longsdorf, David E ..
Longstaff, Hugh . Longsworth, Jacob M. Loomis, Anna M.. Loomis, James W. Loomis, Mary.. Loosley, Daniel . Lorance, William H. Loranger, Amos J. Lorch, Maria.. Lord , Charles P.
Lord, Napoleon D. O Lord , Thomas M. Losure, Mariot .. Lounsberry, Joshua M. Lounsberry, William . Lounsbury, Margaret E Louther, William . Love, Henry B. Love, John M.. Lovell, John L. Lovens, John A. Lowary, Daniel V. Lowe, Esther M. Lowell, John W.
Lowell, Joseph W. Lowry, Alexander M , Lowry, Eada .. Lowry, Lewis . Lowry, Libbie D. Lowry, Samuel R. Lowry, Thomas.. Loy, Samuel .. Loyd, William H. Lucas, Alfred E .. Lucas, Amanda .
Lucas, George W.

Page.
2817 1447 2608 1683 2700 2666 2334 2236 2176 2639 1881 2688 1763 2191 1550 2064 2085 1525 1466 1433 2102 1661 2294 1911 1963 1734 2002 1617 1444 1914 1533 2249 2217 2726 2319 1554 1534 1611 1609 2421 2170 2559 2426 1605 2562 2752 2048
1528 2630 1941 1931 1546 2288 1908 2742 1813 1563 2190 1593 1898 2751 2278 1865 1751 1743 2531 1894 1669 2806 2491 2512 1940 1829

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued . Lucas, Robert B .. Lucas, William ..
Ludlow, Volney P. Ludwig, Catharine . Lufft, Henry. Lufkin, Edwin B. Lull , Phineas F. Luman, Thomas M. Lunn , Edward H .. Lunsford, Jeremiah. Lusk, Ebenezer ..
Lusk, Mary W Lydy, Horace E. Lyle, John A... Lynch, Francis M.. Lynch, Jacob H .. Lynch, John ...
Lynn, Payton S. Lynn , Walter.. Lyon, Albert E. Lyon , Charles M. Lyon, William A.
Lyons, Benjamin .. Lyons, Charles W Mabee, John R... Mabry, Adline. McAdoo, Margaret A. McAllister, William B. McAnally, Robert.. McAtee, William J. McAteer, Simon .
McBeth , William . McBride, John F. McBride, Joseph . McBride, Thomas.. McCabe, Enoch.. McCabe, Thomas. McCain, John H. McCallin, Harvey . McCalvy, Robert . McCandless, John .... McCann, Ruth J. McCann , William. McCardel, Eliza J. McCarter, Daniel N. McCarthy, Patrick . McCarthy, Richard McCaslin, John .. McCaughen, John .. McCauley, Mary F McCay, William M. McClary, John S .. McClaskey, Edward J. McClellan, Theodore.. McClory, Andrew . McClung, George H. McClung, Lafayette H. McClure, Cinderella B. McConnell, Abiram P. McConnell, Alexander F. McConnell, Daniel ....
McConnell, John .. McConnell , Mary J. McCorkle, James M. McCorkle , Mildred . McCormick, George W. McCormick, Peter..
McCormick, Samuel C. McCormick, Thomas .. McCoy, John .. McCoy, John .. McCoy, John R. McCoy, Zerelda N

INDEX.

Page.
2733 1813 ·1815 2499 2637 2666 1548 2618 2538 1938 1928 2797 1619 2096 1832 2065 2482 1444 1836 1545 2228 2604 2628 1866 1802 2446 2539 2047 1675 2300 2531 1782 2325 2241 2386 2159 1519 2575 2578 1843 1972 1765 1854 2400 2418 2090 1530 2542 1825 1975 1629 2170 1581 1827 1500 2687 2203 2801 2373 1508 2700 2016 1693 1842 2149 1440 2540 2370 1947 1791 1659 2448 1833

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued . McCracken, James . McCracken, Lytle .. McCracken, Melissa. McCraw, William . McCrea, William .
McCready, Dennis Buckley. McCredie, David.. McCrillis, John R. McCue, Patrick.. McCulley, Isaac A. McCullock, Zeurial.. McCullough, Margaret . McCumber, Robert B. McCune, William H .. McCurdy, Samuel D. McDaniel, Augustus.. McDaniel , Isaiah . McDermott, Patrick. McDermott, Thomas.. McDermott, Thomas McDevitt, Henry. McDonald, David F. McDonald, Eugene B. McDonald, Harmon W. McDonald, Isaiah B .. McDonald, John .. McDonald, Thomas. McDonald, William A. McDonough, John .. McDonough, John .. McDowell, Augustus . McDowell, Napoleon McDowell, Thomas. McDuffee, Dana H. McFadden, John D McFalls, Franklin McFarland, Milton.. Macfarlane, John G. C. McFarlane, Mary.. McGarraugh, John T. McGarvey, Joseph G.. McGaughey, Jacob. McGehee, Mary J. McGiffin, Margaret . McGinis, John C. McGinty, John A.. McGirl, Barney... MacGowan, Sarah E ..
McGowan, Thomas .. McGowan , William.
McGregor, George S. McHugh, Lawrence . McIntosh, Curtis B. McJunkin, Hugh K. McKay, Elizabeth A. McKean, Eliza A.... McKee, James... McKeever, John . McKeever, William P. McKelvy, James .. McKeney, Stewart . McKenna, James .. McKenney, Charles H. McKenzie, William .. McKibban, Isaac G. McKibben, Dudley . McKiernan , Robert E. McKim, Mary T. McKinney, Samuel McKnight, Eugene V. McKnight, John.. McLain, George H. McLain, Oliver N

3533
Page.
2026 2158 2464 1442 2239 1491 2147 1852 ' 1447 2176 2582 2315 2454 2063 2494 1991 . 1853 1797 2808 2376 2635 1573 1893 2353 1890 . 1779 1853 1608 2217 1984 2124 1783 2497 2436 1446 2317 2204 1682 2095 1664 1457 1679 1511 2046 2597 2281 1664 1536 2140 1699 1433 2495 1538 2694 2110 2373 1752 1680 2674 2014 2177 1985 /1976 1737 2759 2087 1899 1874 1480 2128 2683 2425 2288

3534
Pensions-Continued . increased -continued .
McLauchlan, Lizzie M.. McLaughlin, Thomas .. McLaughlin, Thomas G. McLean, Samuel B .. McLoney, Luke. McMahon, Francis .. McMahon , Jane .. McMahon, Mary.
McMahon, Patrick. McManis, James.. McManus, Amos .
McMichael, W. P. McMillan, Fergus P. McMillen, Robert. McMullen, Robert. McNabb, John O. McNabb, William. McNair, William.. McNamee, Catharine . McNary, Josephine D. McNaughton, Hugh.. McNeil, Gertrude..
McNulty, Joseph.. McPeek, Thomas. McPherran, Alfred . McQuade, James.. McReynolds, James T. McReynolds, N. Delmont. McRoy, William C ... McSwain, Joseph.. McTwiggan, James , McWhorter, Alexander. McWhorter, James B.. McWhorter, John... McWilliams, Jacob. Macello, Antonio .. Mackey, Thomas J. Macy, Ann E.. Macy, John P..
Maddocks, Joseph G.. Maddox, Elizabeth.. Maddox, George H. Maddox, Mary E.. Madison, John W. Magee, David F. Magee, David W. Maginley, Thomas . Maginnis, John... Mahaffey, Joseph C .. Mahaffey, William C.. Mahaney, Henry W. Mahany, Susan.. Maher, Mária A. Mahoney, Michael . Mahoney, Patrick . Maier, Michael.. Mailey, Edward . Maines, Isaac.. Maison, John B. Mallalieu, William H. H. Mallorie, William U. Malone, Adaline H. Malone, Fannie E.. Malone, John A .. Malone, Robert B. Malone, Sarah V. Manahan, Michael. Manahan, Thomas. Manice, Albert... Mankin, William C. Manley, Horace A. Manley, John... Manly, Samuel .

INDEX.

Page.
1637 1450 1776 2237 1798 2391 1499 1757 2582 2001 1665 2254 2480 2762 1465 2553 1548 1438 2614 1983 2696 2263 2459 2610 1634 2236 2436 2606 2107 1500 2131 2778 1970 1626 2376 2251 1453 2739 2529 2600 2303 2783 2385 1973 1490 1648 1517 2781 2333 2106 2434 2684 2196 2292 1864 2548 2799 2180 2382 2171 1578 2507 1848 1739 · 1748 2205 1901 1463 2641 2212 1974 2652 2754

Pensions- Continued . increased -continued . Mann, Alonzo P. Mann, Ervin F. Mannes, Mathias. Manney, Isabel . Manning, Denis A. Manning, Mary M. C.. Manning, Thomas B. Mansfield, S. Amanda . Manson, Augusta N. Many, Artemas D .. Maple, Benjamin . Marah, John ... Marble, Ephraim.. Marcum, James H Marean, John W.
Marlett, Wellington . Marquis, Lewis ... Marquis, Neeta H. Marsden, William H.
Marsh, Benjamin F. Marsh, Cynthia.. Marsh, Lyman .. Marsh, Milton .. Marsh, Thomas D. Marshall, Horace P. Marshall, James.. Marshall, Jennie H. Marshall , John W. Marshall, Samantha B. Marshall, William P. Martin, Elizabeth J.. Martin, George G.. Martin, George H. Martin, Henry W. Martin, Ida L Martin, James. Martin, Jehu.. Martin, Job F. Martin, John D. Martin, Joseph Henry . Martin, Joseph Jones.. Martin, Owen ... Martin, Robert. Martin, Thomas. Martin, Thomas J.. Martin , William.. Martin, William M. Martine, Charles..
Mason, Columbus B. Mason, Granville P. Mason, Lorenzo D.
Mason, Mary B. Mason, Orange S. Massey, Drucillar A. Massey, Thomas G.. Matchett, Alexander. Matheney, Michael.. Matheny, Ashford R. Matheny, Francis D. Matheny, John C... Mather, John ... Mather, John A. Mathers, Waitman T..
Mathes, Mary E.. Mathews, Abraham . Mathews, Charles A.
Mathis, Mary T... Matimore, Catherine . Matlack, Martha G. Matter, Henry.. Mattern , Franklin G. Matthews, Louisa R. Matthews, Robert R.

Page.
2725 2744 2624 2755 2273 1524 2473 1789 1807 1979 2652 1951 1882 2595 2379 1485 2212 1738 1686 1539 2623 1448 1506 2729 2436 2656 2703 2049 2211 1841 1811 2795 2768 2642 2080 1741 2014 2374 2517 1789 1568 1928 2499 1820 1611 2029 1572 2231 2434 1537 1748 2377 1637 2015 . 1687 2525 1510 1864 2614 1868 1833 2048 2294 2317 1579 2775 2578 2445 2602 2693 1734 2769 1794

Pensions-Continued. increased -continued . Mattison, William .
Mattucks, Gatsey.. Maulsby, Thomas A. Mavity, Wesley A. J. Maxham, Lowell M.. Maxwell, Edward .
Maxwell, Henry C. Maxwell, William H. May, David C ... May, Enoch ... May, M. Belle .. May, Rosanna A....
Maybury, George .. Mayes, Minerva A.. Mayfield , Robert F. Mayhew, Charles H. Maynard, George W. Mays , Eliza J.. Mays , Jackson... Meadows, Samuel . Meadows, Thomas C. Meadows, William H. Mears, Catherine De Rosset . Mears, Charles M..
Medbury, Harry N Medworth, Robert.
Meece, Greenup . Meek, Elizabeth J.
Megrue, Mary A.. Meier, Jacob... Meister, Katie B.
Meldrim, Mary Jane .. Melick, William G.. Melson, John M.. Melton, Jesse J.. Melton, John S ..
Melvin, Royal T. Menard, Alfred B Menefee, Thomas S.. Meredith, James E. Meredith, Nancy A. Mericle, Lawrence Merideth, John J. Merrill, George .. Merrill, James D. Merrill, Sarah J.
Merriman, Elijah R. Merritt, Adelaide D. Messerschmidt, John C. Messick, John W. Metcalf, Edward P. Metcalfe, Allen D. Mettler, James I. Mevis, Daniel S.. Meyer, Charles .. Meyers, Michael . Michaelis, Edward . Michener, Preston J.
Mickler, Mary A. Middaugh, Fredrick. Miles, Edward V .. Miles, John S.... Miles, Levi... Miles, William H. Miller, Abraham H. Miller, Alexander..
Miller, Amon ...
Miller, Anthony W. Miller, Benjamin S. Miller, Daniel J. Miller, David. Miller, Edward C .. Miller, Elias..

INDEX.

Page.
2031 1752 1855 2170 2075 1535 1862 2810 2602 2639 2102 2823 2439 2514 2375 1486 2612 2109 2463 1876 1437 2134 2730 1998 2734 2512 2571 1992 1635 1473 1910 2389 2059 2254 2639 1996 2731 1879 1762 2402 2802 1495 1811 2160 2266 1762 2136 2425 1602 2732 1554 2092 1857 2320 2023 2278 1545 2384 2314 2440 1746 1760 2367 1867 1737 1565 1630 2209 1830 1984 2790 2503 2515

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Miller, Harriett E. Miller, Henry D .. Miller, Hurd L... Miller, Jabez ... Miller, Jacob
Miller, Jacob,. Miller, James A. Miller, James C. Miller, James M. Miller, Jesse S .. Miller, John.. Miller, John Adams. Miller, John K.. Miller, Joseph..
Miller, Joseph E. Miller, Leví E ..
Miller, Margaret S. Miller, Martha .. Miller, Mary Jane .. Miller, Samuel A.. Miller, Thomas. Miller, Webster Miller, William. Miller, William. Miller, William G. Millett, William J. Milliman, Thomas. Millison, Simon .. Mills, Edward J.. Mills, Leonidas E. Mills, Robert.. Mills, Robert W. Milson , Thomas. Miltimore, James . Miner, Henry D. Miner, Kate M.. Minnick, John E. Mishler, Joseph J.. Misner, John... Mitchell , Andrew T. Mitchell, Catharine R Mitchell, David.. Mitchell, Isaiah.. Mitchell, John C. Mitchell, John T. Mitchell, Levi ... Mitchell, Mildred W. Mitchell, Mollie J. Mitchell, William B. Mobley, Cornelia A.. Mohan, Michael. Mohn, John F. Monaghan, Minor B.
Monin, Rawleigh M. Monks, William .. Monroe, Hiram E. Monroe, John . Monroe, John. Monroe, William V. Montano, Josefita.. Monteith, William .. Montgomery, John W. Montgomery, Joseph .. Montgomery, Margaret A. Montgomery, Theodore F. Moody, Charles D .. Moody, Henry.. Moody, Thomas L.. Moomaw, James M. Mooney, Elizabeth . Mooney, Patrick.... Moore, Abbie (' . Moore, Alexander..

3535
Page.
2055 1927 2768 1850 2587 2320 2776 1880 1730 2343 2761 2587 1732 1464 1680 2529 2223 1627 2680 2698 2360 2578 2514 1687 2324 1834 1650 2330 1529 2347 2261 2465 2568 2615 2622 2272 2202 1976 2020 2052 1695 2244 1640 2555 2366 2519 1889 2432 1922 1929 1442 2287 2491 2461 1929 1515 2443 1672 2798 2378 1599 2239 2070 2079 2132 2774 2148 2505 1802 2570 2013 1542 2091

3536
Pensions-Continued. increased-continued . Moore, David H.. Moore, Eliza . Moore, Elizabeth . Moore, John D. Moore, John L Moore, John N. Moore, John P. Moore, Lewis D.
Moore, Mary C. Moore, Mary C. Moore, Newton. Moore, Reese .. Moore, Robert S .. Moore, Samuel . Moore, Troy. Moore, Virginia C. Moore, William. Moorhead, William. Morehart, David .. Morehead, Daniel B. Morehead, William .
Morey, Augustus J.. Morgan, Agusta P.. Morgan, Charles F. M. Morgan, Edmund . Morgan, Edwin ... Morgan, Elizabeth . Morgan, Elizabeth Moore. Morgan, John M...
Morgan, Mary. Morgan, William J.. Morgan, William M.. Moriarty, Bartholomew. Morland, David N... Morley, Alfred W. Morley, Calvin E. Morrill, Alice W.. Morrill, Ezekiel . Morrill, James H. Morris, James M.. Morris, John A.. Morris, John F. Morris, S. Harriet. Morris, Sarah C.. Morris, Thomas . Morris, William H. Morrison, Francis M. Morrison, John H.. Morrison, Matilda. Morrison, Oscar B Morrison, Samuel H. Morrissey, Daniel . Morrow, Fannie E. Morrow , James.. Morrow, Thomas E. Morrow, William H. Morse, Milo B .. Morson, William.. Morton, Louisa Anne. Morton, Oliver.. Mose, Daniel.. Mose , Jacob. Moser, Samuel . Moser, William H. Mosher, Silas .. Mosier, Andrew J. Moss, Buford P. Moss, James ... Mott, Alexander B. Moules, John.. Moulton , Jotham T. Mouser, Thomas B. Mowan, Baltzar.

INDEX .

Page.
2560 2002 1778 1562 2074 1776 1686 2115 2238 1813 2186 1987 1554 2590 1675 2048 1724 1438 1845 2673 2147 1911 2283 2258 1825 2115 1697 2302 2718 2454 1700 2255 1479 1934 1810 2401 2210 2278 2178 2560 2688 2161 1594 2358 2497 1612 2348 2794 2012 2218 2140 2154 1778 2345 1526 1713 1782 2576 2684 2376 2541 2757 . 2275 2371 1862 1917 1472 1823 2479 1740 1828 1757 1941

Pensions Continued. increased -continued.
Mower, George W.... Mowrey, Harley.. Muehlberg, Hermann . Mueller, Max . Mull, Edward K. Mullen, James P. Mullen, John H .. Muller, Fritz ... Mullin , Rose V. Mullin, Sidney F. Mullins, Calvin S .. Muncher, Joseph .. Muncy, James W.
Mundy, Mary E.. Munger, Israel E.. Munns, Brice P.. Munson, Francis M.. Munson, Margaret . Murch, James A. Murdough, Samuel C. Murphy, Edward........ Murphy, Felix G.. Murphy, James.. Murphy, John E. Murphy, Sallie H. Murray, Charles T. Murray, Francis... Murray, James C. Murray, John P. Murray, Thomas W. Murray, William A. Murrey, Elizabeth A. Murtha, James .. Musgrove, Lucinda C.. Myers, Catharine ..
Myers, George .. Myers, George C.. Myers, Kate.. Myers, Thomas E. Nagle, William S.. Narrin, William A. Narrow, Robert L. Nash, Albert H.. Nash, Allen J. Nash, Charles V.. Nash, Daniel D. Nash, Mary Amanda . Nash, Susan E. Nations, Obediah B..
Natt och Dag, Axel A. M. Nattinger, Matilda E.. Naus, Samuel ...
Navy, Mary. Neafus, David B. Neal, Stephen W. Neal , William M. Near, William H.
Neece, George W. Needham, Edward E. Neely, Sarah.. Neil, William R.. Neilson, Caroline . Nelson , Ann R. Nelson , John C .. Nelson, Thor.. Nesbitt, Annie R. E.. Netser, James E ..
.Nettleton, Harvey S. Neumann, John . Nevins, Augustus A. Newbury, Edward S. E .. Newbury, Joseph B.. Newell, Jesse C.

Page.
1675 2018 1954 2489 2480 2355 2227 1531 1898 1551 2513 1912 2680 2205 1860 2290 1540 2223 1942 2692 2405 2314 2200 1878 1580 2236 2750 2503 2687 2259 1823 2489 2510 2555 2080 2616 1672 2287 1742 1766 2542 1816 2441 1453 2678 1658 2086 2050 2338 1516 1885 2471 . 2204 1923 1981 2580 1903 1778 1632 2569 2440 1781 1905 2781 2646 1868 2478 2502 2390 1949 2569 1976 2718

Pensions-Continued. increased-continued . Newlin, Isabel .... Newman, John L.. Newman, Samuel P. Newman, William S.
Newton, George.. Niblock, John H.. Nichols, Alfred .. Nichols, Amelia.. Nichols, Andrew H.
Nichols, Frank N.... Nichols, Joseph... Nichols, Melville A. Nichols, Orrin D. Nichols, William A. Nicholson, Josiah.. Niebels, Jacob.. Niles, Charles H. Nix, John..... Nixon, Eliza L.. Noah, Morton M.
Nobinger, Joseph . Noble, Aaron . Noble, James H.. Noble, James M. Noble, Sallie .. Noblet, Peter. Noggle, Charles L... North, Granville F.
North, Lafayette .. Northrop, Thomas J. Norton, Eliza P.. Norton, Fannie P. Norton, Rianzo M. Nortrip, William H. Nortrup, Detrick Norwood, Eliza L. Noulton, Levi B. Noyes, Joseph A. Noyes, Martin B. Nulton, George.. Nunan, James.. Nussbaum, Abram.. Nye, George H.. Nye, Reuben.. Oakman, Isaac.. Oatley, Frank J.. Obenshain, Leonidas ..
Ober, Isaac Henry. O'Brien, James H. O'Brien, John D .. O'Bryan, Charles .. O'Bryan, Irwin .. O'Connor, John ..
O'Connor, Musgrove E.. O'Connor, Thomas . O'Connor, Thomas O'Day, Patrick . Odear, William H. Odell, James H.. Odenbaugh, Zelinda E. Odenheimer, John M. Offinger, Martin .. Ogan, John W. Ogle, Richard M.. Oglevie, David .
Ohl, Ephraim N. R. Ohr, Martin L....
Olds, Egbert J.. Oleson, Charles W. Olin, Louisa...
Olis, George W. Oliver, John N.
Oliver, William .

INDEX.

Page.
2088 2629 1808 1994 2751 2434 2562 1760 1863 2150 1579 2338 2025 2580 1610 2415 1834 2617 2000 1458 1994 1476 1849 1623 2677 2181 1650 2265 2019 2427 2141 1854 2636 1716 1477 1762 1885 1968 1477 1441 1810 2611 2691 2790 2728 1961 2738 1575 2489 1494 2140 1812 2355 2316 1639 1466 2257 1919 2342 2295 1643 2460 2673 1655 1948 1467 2382 2068 1456 2591 2041 2244 2120

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued . Olmsted , William A. Olney, Henry S ... Olney, Ruth E. Onan, Warren .... O'Neal, Hugh.. O'Neall, Charlotte S. O'Neil, Ann.... Oppel, George.
O'Reilly, Margaret. Orem, J. Bailey . Orr, Éliza..
Orr, Eugene.. Orth, Jacob G.. Osborn, Carlon B. Osborn , Susan M. Osgood, Marvin.. O'Shea, Edward. Osterberg, Frank. Osterheld, Henry. Osterman , William . O'Tool, Samuel .. Ott, David B ..
Over, Lawrence.. Overley, Mary L. Overton, Isaac.. Overton, Jennie L.
Oviatt, Joseph Q. Owens, David D.. Owens, Penina .. Owens, Thomas E..
Oxton, Adolphus L. Oyler, John E.. Packard, Horace F. Packer, Aaron L.. Packer, Albert G.. Padgett, Thomas H. Page, John B .. Page, Moses B. Page, Sarah A. Page, Thomas T. Pahl, Ferdinand. Paige, Charles W. Paine, Rufus H. Paine, Samuel .. Paine, Waldo W. Painter, William . Palmer, Cyrus.. Palmer, David.. Palmer, Gabriel Y. Palmer, Ira..... Palmer, Jacob.. Palmer, Noah.. Palmer, Samuel . Palmer, Silas N. Pantall, Elijah ..
Papst, Rudolph, Papy, Joseph B. Paramore, Edward F Paris, Andrew Jackson .
Parish, Joseph M.. Parish, Nathan.. Parker, Charles A. Parker, David H. Parker, Elias H. Parker, Frank M. Parker, George A.. Parker, Henry B. Parker, John G.. Parker, Sampson.. Parker, Sophie S. Parkinson, John C .. Parks, Elizabeth .. Parrish, Charles S.

3537
Page.
1961 2126 2423 2806 2782 2544 2618 2249 2759/ 1988 1559 .1874 1644 1594 2246 2429 2012 1782 2524
1602 1590 1866 2699 2186 2207 1528 2318 2239 1990 2083 1546 1791 2752 2344 2109 1863 1879 1784 1497 2245 2751 1501 1459 2262 1549 1464, 2708 1438 1806 2168 2642 1477 2176 2442 1869 2962 1549 1974 2134 2605 1736 2645 2088 2419 2053 1543 2365 1562 2238 2108 1885 2016
1660

3538
Pensions-Continued . increased -continued .
Parsons, Ralph D Parsons, Thomas W. Partin, Elizabeth F. Partridge, Frederick W. Passon, John H... Patch, Emory Edward . Pate, Robert C .. Patrick, Andrew. Patten, Aaron F. Patterson, Anthony. Patterson, Eleazar A.. Patterson, Emma L..
Patterson, Greenberry B. Patterson, Henry J. Patterson, John P. Patterson, Mary E. Patterson, Mary E. Patterson, Mary H. Patterson, Thomas.. Pattison, William P. Patton, Alexander G.
Patton, George W. Patton, Mary L Paul, Indiana A. Pavy, Prior M.. Paxton, Nellie . Payne, Abel W Payne, George. Payne, Harriet . Payne, Sanford D.
Peabody, Albert G. , jr. Peabody, Daniel A.
Peabody, George W. Peach, Joseph.. Peacock, Martin . Peacock, Oscar F. Peak, George C .. Pearce, Samuel A. Pearson, David M. Pearson, John M. Pearsons, Fanny A. Pease , Henry R. Peavey, Hannah . Peden, Milton ..
Peirce, Benjamin F. Peirce, Caroline M. Pelley, James S .. Pence, Daniel .. Pence, John A. Pender, Lucy A. Pendergast, Michael . Penfield, William H. Pepoon, Albert F. Pepper, Samuel . Perkins, Henry W Perkins, Isaiah.. Perkins, Lewis S. Perrin, Noah.. Perry, Isaac N. Perry, S. Horace . Pert, Dell E .. Peters, Annie E. Peters, John H. Peterson , Borre . Peterson, Christian. Peterson , Emily.. Peterson, Jacob D. Petherbridge, Sarah A. Petitt, Chalkley.. Pettey, Joseph B. Pettie, David T. Pettingill, Frank S. Pettit, Arethusa M.

INDEX .

Page.
2596 2586 1628 1645 2545 1610 1753 1495 1944 2641 1461 2251 2704 1641 2298 2096 2044 2460 1727 2448 2074 1460 2375 1548 2166 2272 2220 2705 2038 2526 2256 2539 2422 2519 2745 2588 2496 2276 1635 2234 2261 1665 2689 2488 1662 2027 1578 1758 2500 1797 2492 2794 2425 1908 1676 2623 1981 2402 1759 2060 2420 1731 2703 2531 1775 1540 1785 2120 1473 2375 2117 1756 2046

Pensions- Continued. increased -continued.
Pettit, Bessie Sharp . Pevear, Sylvester O Pfahl, Frederick ..
Phelon, Josephine B. Phelps, Elias.. Philbrick, Maria L. Philbrick, William B. Philbrook, Daniel M. Phillips, Charles A. Phillips, Edwin R.. Phillips, Guthridge L.. Phillips, Isaac C .. Phillips, James H.. Phillips, Richard , jr. Phillips, Seth.. Phillips, Thomas.. Piccard, Francis .. Pick, Levi.. Picket, Thomas .. Pickett, Thomas J. Pickle, Jacob M..
Pieper, Henry.. Pieper, John .. Pierce, Franklin C.
Pierce, George W. Pierce, Jacob W. Pierce, James O. Pierce, Oliver P. Pierce, Ruth P.. Pierce, Simeon . Piersell, Joseph N Piggott, James T. Pike, Fannie L .. Pike , George . Pile, Reanna .
Pillow, Elizabeth .. Pinkham , Orlando C .. Pinney, Edward H .. Pint, Margaret... Pitchford , William H. Pitman, Amanda .. Pitman, John H.. Pitt, Chester R.. Pittenger, Winni C .. Pittman, Jeremiah F. Place, Isaac.. Place, Susie . Plato, Florence B. Platt, John .. Platt, Mary S. Platt, Sterns D.. Pletzke, Christopher.. Plimpton, Julia L.. Plotner, William McHenry .
Plumpton, Ephraim .. Plybon, James C.. Plymate, Nathaniel W. Poffenberger, Hezekiah. Pohlers, Sophie .. Polk, Charles G.. Polk, Ezekial .. Pollard, Joseph . Polston, Alexander D.
Pomeroy, Fanny G.. Pool, James .. Pool , Martin . Pool . Wilson J ..
Pope , James V. Pope, Simeon D. Porter, Alexander . Porter, Frances L.. Porter, George .
Porter, Henry.

Page.
2700 2694 2465 2052 2113 2743 1677 2000 1587 2611 2629 2268 2807 1588 1562 2654 1500 1679 1431 1953 1937 2523 1449 1497 1904 2522 2392 2289 1957 2040
1979 2716 2427 1489 1618 2655 1642 1602 2574 1731 2012 2232 2579 1726 2592 1804 1496 2262 2072 2750 1431 1522 1641 2710 1437 1434 1892 2764 2042 1857 1615 1702 1790 2193 2644 2067 1487 1830 2593 2518 1936 2277 1729

Pensions-Continued . increased continued . Porter, Jonathan K .. Porter, Richard N
Portwood, Dudley . Posey, James H.. Post, James E... Post, Lewis J.. Pott, Zacus P.
Potter, Alice Eddy . Potter, Anna Z... Potter, Mary G. Potter, Norman C.
Potter, Page G... Pound, Joseph M. Powell, George C. Powell, John A..
Powell, Lucy W. Power, Charles A. Power, Henry.. Powers, James,. Prater, James F. Prather, Alonzo S. Pratt, Charles H.... Pratt, Josiah N Pratt, Lewis.. Pratt, Louise J.. Pratt, Morton A.. Preble, Turner J. Preisinger, Fred .. Prendergast, Joseph H. Prendeville, Charles. Prentiss, John M.. Prescott, Roswell. Presley, Anthony W. Preston, Aaron... Preston, Davis .. Preston, Francis W. Preston, Hannah A Preston, Nelson S .. Preston, Samuel .. Preston, Sarah A.. Prettyman, James. Price, Andrew J. Price, Catharine. Price, George. Price, James A. Price, James C. Price, John G..
Price, Joseph W. Price, Levi L ... Prime, Edward B. Primrose, Thomas H. Prince, Charles H. Pringle, David R.
Pritchard, Jesse L.. Pritchard, Parker.. Prochel, Samuel.. Proctor, Daniel A .. Prose, James 8 .. Prosser, Thomas.. Prost, Richard .. Prouty, Thomas J. Province, David . Pruit, Nancy. Pruitt, Deborah J. Prunkard, David .. Pryce, James A..
Puckett, Benjamin J. Pugsley, Frank.... Purcell, Robert.. Purdy, George Purvis, George W Pusey, James E.. Putnam, William W.

INDEX.

Page.
1893 2589 1793 1766 1462 2078 1805 1891 1547 2671 1731 2451 2031 2023 1913 2100 1.600 2491 1479 1541 2267 2518 2760 1619 2248 2762 2596 1458 2404 2754 1858 2255 1559 2539 1982
1736 1713 2110 1699 1466 1550 2796 2029 2329 2128 2627 2650 1444 1995 1606 2351 2213 1527 2437 1831 2321 1692 1989 2342 2602 2532 2474 1955 2180 2787 2570 2589 1920 1516 2733 1490 2752 2453

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Queman, Isaiah.......
Quentin, Josephine E. Quermbeck, Peter..
Quien, George.. Quigg, David H. Quigley, William C.. Quigley, William S. Quill, Michael . Quimby, John J. Quinn, Bridget . Quinn, Timothy. Quinton, John M.. Quist, Andrew P. Rafferty, Ann. Ragan, Alice E .. Ragan, Mary Jane..
Raigle, George W... Rains, John P..
Raker, Matthew D. , jr. Ralston, William.. Rambo, James T. Ramsay, Winfield S. Ramsey, James... Ramsey, James . Ramsey, Mary E .. Ramsey, Rebecca.. Ramsey, Robert . Randall, Darius H. Randall, Oakaley . Randolph, Amelia R. Randolph, Harrison.. Randolph, Mary E. Raney, James . Rankin, David Rankin, David Rankin, Richard B. Ratdin, Jacob C .... Rarick, Orrin S .. Raschig, Gustavus F. E. Rassbach, John C .. Rathbun, George C... Rattray, Charles. Rauch, John... Raudabaugh, Emanuel. Rawles, Harriett A.. Rawling, John... Rawlings, John W. Ray, Dennis W Ray, Isaac N. Ray, Malcolm . Raymond, Nellie.. Raymond , Samuel G. Raymond, Seth .. Raynor, John W. Read, Frank H. Read, Helen B.
Reagan, George W. Ream , Benjamin B. Reaney, Annie... Reavis, Leonidas W. Reavis, Sarah Ann.. Beber, Jonathan B. Rector, Enoch.. Rector, James L.. Rector, Julius.. Redding, John.. Redfield, Daniel W. Redic, Oliver C..
Redmond, William E.. Reece, John ... Reed , Andrew C.. Reed, Benjamin D. Reed, Charles ...

3539
Page.
1585 1563 1841 2557 1432 1847 2289 1946 1621 2146 2627 2104 2124 2474 2553 2244 1430 1897 1557 1747 2195 2259 2129 2083 " 2021 1750 2264 1579 2230 2454 1931 2347 2107 1660 1861 2477 1582 2214 2332 2114 2343 1765 1649 2370 1942 2165 2797 2002 1678 2062 1550 1745 1560 . 1890 2280 1648 2346 2359 2401 2514 2250 . 2544 2004 1478 2102 2599 2269 1817 2271 2126 1452 2767 2613

3540
Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Reed, George W.. Reed , Henry . Reed , James . Reed, John W. Reed , Sarah J. Reed , Thomas .. Reeder, George H. Reeder, George W. Reeder, James .. Reedy, Peter.. ' Reese, Hannah C. Reese, Patterson.. Reese, Samuel M. Reese, William . Reesequie, Noah . Reess, Elizabeth S .. Reeve, Leander C .. Reeves, Christopher C. Reeves, Samuel.. Reger, Henry Loor. Reich, Emilie Grace. Reid , Hugh..
Reid , Nancy G. Reidy, Bridget .. Reighter, Theodore F. Remick, John... Remington, Dennis. Renell, Charles W. Reppeto, James .. Rerick, Isaac L.. Reuter, Henry F. Reynolds, Hannah O. Reynolds, Hezekiah J. Reynolds, James W. Reynolds, Lizzie G. Reynolds, Luke.. Reynolds, Mary J. Reynolds, Richard . Reynolds , Silas A. Rhoads, Oliver H. P Rhoads, William H.. Rhodes, George.. Rhodes, Henry J. Rhodes, Hinman. Rhodes, Samuel. Rice, Ebenezer E. Rice, Elizabeth H. Rice, George H.. Rice, Henry J. Rice, Job...
Rice, Joseph S .. Rice, Samuel B. Rice, William F. M. Rich, Jacob ... Richards, Benjamin F. Richards, Isaac . Richards, James .. Richards , Oscar F. Richards, William E. Richardson, Edwin P. Richardson , Nathan B. Richardson, Thomas L. Richardson, William G. Richardson, William H. Richie, Thomas J.. Richter, George.. Rickard, Jacob S. Rickett, Ebenezer. Ricketts, Andrew . Riddell , Solomon .. Riddle, Joseph.. Riedmüller, Anton . Riggin , William H..

INDEX .

Page.
1704 2511 2269 1649 2790 1839 2245 1996 2232 2292 1883 2615 2018 2526 2253 2424 1920 2032 2718 2586 1844 2195 2590 1782 2388 2300 2537 1668 2056 1695 2725 2625 2084 1594 1448 2562 1821 1891 2255 2720 2256 2396 2496 1610 2501 1907 2690 1586 2346 1947 1861 2136 1939 1576 2761 2344 2149 2700 2576 2669 1532 2791 1610 2119 2807 1785 2097 1860 1612 1872 2768 1594 2069

Pensions-Continued . increased-continued .
Riggs, Clay.. Riggs, Lycurgus D. Riley, Albert... Riley, James.. Riley, Mary A. Riley, William J. Riley, William L. Riner, Jacob.. Ring, Anna.. Risk, Abisha.. Risum, Otto A.. Ritchie, Amanda W. Riter, Samuel H. W. Rittenhouse, Henry. Rivers, Mary E .. Roach, Albert C .. Roache, John W. Robb, John, 1st. Robbe, William P. Robbins, Jason.. Robbins, John H. Robbins, John R. Roberts, Aaron L. Roberts, Edwin L.. Roberts, Henry.. Roberts, Jacob M. F. Roberts, John A .. Roberts, Joseph J. Roberts, Lloyd. Roberts, Richard A. Roberts, Samuel G. Roberts, Sophronia.. Roberts, Thomas M. Robertson, James.. Robertson, Louisa E. Robey, Thomas . Robinson, George L.. Robinson, George W. Robinson, Henry M .. Robinson, Joseph A. Robinson, Joseph C. Robinson, Louis C .. Robinson, Stephen. Robinson, William H. H. Roche, Redmond . Rockwell, Alpheus A. Rockwell, Garrett P. Rockwell, Matilda .
Rockwood, Aaron L.. Rockwood , Moses S. Rodefer, George W. Rodeheaver, George H. Rodenberger, William R.. Roe, Andrew J. Roe, Samuel C Roessler, Christian . Rogers, Eliza....
Rogers, George . Rogers, Josephine . Rogers, Julius D.. Rogers, Mary A.. Rogers, Ruth E.
Rogers, Stephen H. Rolfe, Eugene W .. Rone, Nathaniel H.
Roraback, George R Rosbrugh, Michael.. Roschdiantzky, Frederick . Rose, Allan S .. Rose, Daniel M. Rose, Henderson . Rose, Joseph.......... Roseberry, John S.

Page.
2098 2227 2461 2774 2241 1701 2068 2793 2222 1925 1952 2231 2766 1770 2248 2472 1526 2357 2784 1461 2557 2795 2277 2327 1525 2735 1522 2344 2798 2164 1847 1936 2284 2374 2757 1510 2320 2762 1563 2465 1466 1999 2534 1951 2525 1439 2726 1742 1975 2204 2536 2146 2620 2026 2340 2498 2076 2024 1715 1569 2569 2666 2336 2756 1765 2459 2440 2287 2615 1522 1609 2398 2332

Pensions Continued. increased- continued . Rosencrans, John L..
Ross, D. Lanning.. Ross, David .. Ross, Edward .
Ross, George E. Ross, George F. Ross, James.. Ross, John J.. Ross, Wilkison B. Ross, William I .. Rothrock, Bronson .. Rothrock, George W. Rouge, Joseph.. Rourke, Garrett . Rouse, Oren S .. Rout, James... Rowan, John G.. Rowan, Thomas. Rowe, Emma . Rowe, Samuel. Rowe, William T. Rowell, Moses.. Royal, Luther M.. Royer, John A. Rubert, Martin A.. Ruby, James S. Ruch, Solomon R.
Rucker, Margaret A. Ruddick, Scott... Ruddock, Nathan S.
Ruhle, George.. Rumrill, Lucius.. Runkel, Amos M. Runnels Charles F
Rupert, Joseph .. Rush, Otis E. Russ, Maggie D .. Russell, Amanuel .
Russell, Henry. Russell, Milton... Russell, Ransom C.. Rust, Franklin.. Ruth, James... Rutherford, Carrick. Rutherford , Elizabeth,,
Rutledge, Hugh R. Rutter, John. Ryan, James W. Ryan, Mary.. Ryckman, William H. Rykard, Mary Isabella . Sackett, George C .. Saeger, Milton A. St. Clair, Benjamin .. St. John , Montezuma. Salat, Jacob... Salisbury, Henry G.. Sallade, Thomas W. Sallee, William T. Salmon, Sarah....... Salsberry, James S .. Saltar, Martha E.. Sampson, Franklin Sanborn, Corydon W. Sanborn, Henry.
Sanborn, True, jr.. Sancrainte, Charles F. Sanders, John V ..
Sanders, Joseph B. Sanders, Mary S.. Sanders, Seldon R .. Sanders, William . Sanderson , Helen C ...
VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -60

INDEX .

Page.
2535 2681 2026 1987 1512 1487 2167 2505 2730 2431 2073 2637 2634 1651 2796 2372 1532 1795 1435 2323 2464 2431 1883 1900 2693 2046 1644 1911 2042 1897 2536 2267 1634 1800 1718 2389 1710 1471 1631 2394 2142 2694 1658 1848 1654 2102 2030 1454 1546 2004 2249 1739 1613 2378 2401 2613 1492 1679 2360 2385 2237 1496 2594 2114 1721 2721 2320 1440 2017 2550 2793 1758 1901

Pensions- Continued. increased-continued .
Sanderson, Job B. Sands, John H. H. Sandusky, Emanuel. Sanford, Aaron C. Sanford, Martha E. Sannar, Jacob..
Sanspeur, Anthony . Sargent, George . Sargent, Samuel P. Sarlls, Edward.. Sarvis, John ... Satterlee, Nelson R. Satterthwait, William H. Saul, George C ... Saunders, Charles B. Saunders, Rowland . Saunders, Walter.. Saunderson , James T. Savage, George W. Savage, John .. Sawyer, Hannah A Sawyer, Joel M.. Sawyer, Moses H. Sawyer, Nathaniel C. Saxton, Amasa B .. Sayles, William B Saylor, Thomas J. Scannell, Michael .
Scattergood, Joseph. Schadler, Frank. Scheldt, Emilie . Scherer, Frank. Schloesser, Philip. Schlosser, Christian. Schlosser, Henry. Schmitt, Nannie L.. Schmutz, George S. Schneller, John J. Schnure, Mary Jane. Schofield, John W. Schooling, Thomas H. B. Schoonmaker, Moses .. Schramm, Theodor. Schreiner, Charles J. Schroeders, Edgar . Schue, Nicholas . Schultz, Frederick . Schultz, Jacob . Schultz, Ludwig .. Schultz, Martin . Schwab, Barbara E. Schweizer, Gottlieb . Scott, Alexander M. Scott, Cyrus W. Scott, Eliza M..
Scott, George R. Scott, George S. Scott, James .. Scott, John M. Scott, John W. Scott, Joseph. Scott, Joseph E.. Scott, Manson B.
Scott, Mary H .. Scott, Robert A. Scott, Sarah A .. Scott, Sarah C. A.
Scroggs, Joseph A. Scrogum, James .. Scrutchfield , James A Scudder, Caroline D. Scullen , William H. Seabold, Josiah H..

3541
Page.
2015 1698 2606 2780 2603 1892 2067 1514 2015 1583 1589 2291 1492 2706 2678 2675 1989 2162 2374 1488 1718 1546 1454 2042 2337 2442 2471 1824 2203 2542 1726 2380 2020 2082 2450 1871 2551 2163 1836 2061 2323 1470 1748 2650 1684 2198 1464 2077 2669 2264 2403 2530 1553 2807 2529 1895 1760 1971 1512 1821 2190 1666 1622 2058 2166 1883 2246 2334 1524 1997 1756 2358 1796

3542
Pensions Continued. increased-continued . Seabury, J. Morgan. Seal, Isaac N..
Sealey, George P. Searles, Samuel W. Sears, Alfred F. Sears, William R. Seaver, Orlena F. Seaver, Robert A. Seavey, Daniel L.: Secheverell, Hamilton . Seeber, John W. Seed, Thomas H. Seeley, Aaron P.
Seelye, Henry E. Sees, Jonas M.. Sees, Louisa M.
Seitz, William .. Selfridge, Susan W. Sells, Charles . Semans, David H. Sessions, Willard F. Settle, Charles.... Severson, Bryngel Sevey, Warren J. Sevin, Rose.. Sewell , Florence A. Sexton, Charles M. Sexton, Stephen M. Seymour, John . Shacklett, Absalom R. Shacklett, George W. Shade, Jacob . Shafer, Jacob C.
Shaffer, George M. Shaffer, James .. Shaffer, William H. H. Shallow, Bernard .... Shank, John ...
Shanks, Stephen B. H. Shannon, William .. Sharpley, Daniel .. Shattuck, Charles . Shaver, Josiah H .. Shaw, James... Shaw, Samuel A. Shawver, Samuel . Shea, Cornelius .. Sheaff, William L. Sheak, James M.... Shear, John N. Shearer, Stout. Sheckler, William H. Shedd, Charles W. Shedd, Lorenzo W. Sheehan, Mary . Sheets, Paul .. Sheffield, Sallie F. Shehan, Lizzie E. Sheil, Jacob... Sheldon, Charles F. Shell, Absalom.. Shelley, Frederick J. Shelley, Henry.. Shelly, Daniel. Shelly, Mary Ann . Shelton, Nancy F. Shepard, Alice S. Shepard, Gordon H. Shepardson, Iva 0 . Shepherd, Edward B.
Shepherd , George W Shepherd , Samuel.. Sheppard, Abraham E. Sheppard , Amaziah G..

INDEX.

Page.
1984 1767 1956 2392 1819 2302 1465 2056 2438 1521 1520 2778 1999 2074 2242 2243 2648 1601 2526 2352 2038 2352 2405 2588 2646 1544 2222 1873 1462 2790 2650 1434 2310 2722 1822 1938 2792 2686 2647 1593 2169 2720 2527 2619 1530 2282 2643 1945 2362 2633 1604 2446 1836 2209 2090 2561 1601 1445 2183 2135 1896 1493 2737 1924 2079 1712 1921 1487 2490 2698 1525 2691 2192 2342

Pensions- Continued. increased-continued . Sheppard, Maria C. Sherk, William .. Sherlock, Anthony. Sherman, Lena . Sherman, Sheffield L., jr. Sherwood, John A .. Sherwood, Warren A..
Shetter, Egbert P.. Shevlin, Patrick F. Shinaman, Frederick .
Shiney, Joseph.. Shinolt, John .. Shipman, Levi I .. Shippman, Peter. Shirk, Mathias .. Shobert, John . Shoemaker, William Shoener, Samuel.. Sholl, Alexander.. Shook, Jonathan Short, James L. Short, John Short, John Shrader, Daniel. Shreeve, Charles H. Shroyer, Joseph.. Shuey, Robert G .. Shultz, Barney.. Shultz, William M.
Sibert, Benjamin F. Sibley, Henry H.. Sickels, Horace H. Sickler, Emma.... Siddell, Wilson.. Sidel, Louis... Siegfried, Hiram Sikes, James M... Siler, Jesse... Simkins, James B .. Simmons, Abraham J.. Simmons, John H. Simmons, Leonard F.
Simon, Henry.. Simon, Peter M. Simons, Lucius B. Simpson, Chester..
Simpson, Dwight.. Simpson, Elbridge . Simpson, Francis M.. Simpson, Franklin ..
Simpson; Margaret . Sims, Eliza Rebecca. Sinclair, James H.. Sine, Harvey . Sink, Lorenzo .. Sires, Thomas ..
Sirmyer, John. Sischo, Charles E. Sisco, Orin D..
Sisson, Henry T. Sivley, Absalom.
Six, Joseph L. Sizer, Thomas J. Skeans, Jonathan. Skelton, Nathaniel E. Skinner, Eli M.... Skinner, Sidney S. Slack, Thomas A.
Slagg, Joseph .. Slater, Edgar . Slater, James . Sliger, Adam.... Slinger, Andrew J.
Sloan, Henry Clay.

Page.
2183 2405 1676 1655 2705 1682 2536 1621 2798 2477 2116 2663 1616 1640 2594 2600 1755 2626 2686 1738 2689 2362 2645 2023 2343
1895 1799 1475 1564 2764 1913 2154 2515 2544 2264 2441 2029 1737 1889 2610 2638 1468 2353 2388 1720 2336 2456 2648 1805 1809 2134 2198 2494 2396 2331 2540 1980 1953 2676 1954 2591 2404 1884 2112 1662 2434 2473 1517 2168 2189 2732 2650 2232 2130

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued . Sloan, James ...
Sloat, Sylvanus . Slocum, Charles H.
Slocum, Giles Q. Sloggy, Peter .. Small, James L... Small, Nathan.... Smallwood, Isaac C .. Smart, Merritt M..
Smiley, Riley M.. Smith, Abraham K. Smith, Abram V. Smith, Albert . Smith, Alva D.. Smith, Anderson J. Smith, Andrew.. Smith, Annie E. Smith, Annie M. Smith, Barnes B. Smith, Caroline A. Smith, Catharine E. Smith, Charles E... Smith, David C ... Smith, Don C ... Smith, Edward W. Smith, Elias .
Smith , Elijah A. Smith, Eliza A. Smith, Elizabeth C. Smith, Frank D. Smith, Gabriel . Smith, George E. Smith, George W. Smith, George W. Smith, Harvey. Smith, Hollis.. Smith, Isaac C.. Smith, Jacob.. Smith, James F. Smith, Jefferson K. Smith, Joel R. Smith, John .. Smith, John A. Smith, John A. Smith, John F. Smith, John H. Smith, John L. Smith, John M. Smith, John M. Smith, John R. Smith, John T.
Smith, Joseph .. Smith, Lawrence B. Smith, Lorenzo W.
Smith, Mary J .. Smith, Melville A. Smith, Morris .. Smith, Oliver P. Smith, Oliver T. Smith, Orren R. Smith, Robert. Smith, Robert K. Smith, Samuel Smith, Samuel . Smith, Samuel B. Smith, Sanford C. H.
Smith, Sidney G. Smith, Sidney R. Smith, Stephen C.
Smith, Stephen G. Smith, Thomas J Smith, Thomas J. Smith, Thomas R.

INDEX .

Page. Pensions- Continued :

increased - continued .

1456

Smith, Wesley.

2557

Smith, William..

2762

Smith, William A.

1578

Smith, William E.

1859

Smith, William H.

1505

Smith, William M.

2495

Smithson, Judiah B.

2000

Smoker, William ..

2512

Smyth, Robert C ..

1902

Snell , John C ....

2055

Snell, Thomas .

1480

Snell, William R.

1559

Snoddy, Thomas A.

2043

Snodgrass, Elijah J.

1966

Snook, Jonathan..

1630

Snouse, John...

2672

Snow, Chauncey M.

1592

Snyder, Amos ..

1703

Snyder, John..

2573

Snyder, Simon A.

2122

Sorrell, Augustine .

1457

Sours, Abram ..

2805

South, Benjamin R.

2264

Southard, Nathaniel .

2125

Southworth, Malek A..

1612

Southworth, William A..

1935

Spain, Davia D..

2208

Spalding, George.

2651

Spangler, Mary C..

1662

Spanogle, Charles A..

1526

Spanton, Thomas..

2316

Sparkman, Phoebe E.

2571

Sparks, Henry L..

2258

Sparling, Joseph J.

2672

Sparrow , Thomas ..

2607

Spaulding, John ..

2776

Speed, Andrew J.

2269

Spelman, William O.

2543

Spencer, Andrew..

2373

Spencer, James ..

2673

Spencer, William K.

2122

Sperry, James H..

2524

Sperry, Mortimer F.

2573

Sphar, John...

2003

Spice, Jeremiah .

2188

Spicely, Marie J.

1778

Spielman, Louisa .

2651

Spinning, Samuel B.

2685

Spitzer, Gottlieb .

2502

Sprauer, Joseph..

2359

Spring, Charles B.

1556

Springsteed , Hilton ..

1525

Sprinkle, Michael J..

2146

Sproul , Andrew J..

2393

Sproull , James A.

1462

Sprouse, William..

2022

Spruell, Elizabeth .

1448

Sriver, Albert ..

2065

Stafford, Charles N.

1750

Stair, Charles ..

2288

Stalcup, John R.

1549

Staley, Marquis D. L.

2039

Stamper, Lucinda....

2202

Stanfield, Solomon .

2184

Stang, Paul .............

1672

Stanley, Henderson.

1547

Stannah, Ment ..

1660

Stannah, Samuel J.

1970

Stansil, Alfred B.

1698

Stanyan, Julia A

2021

Staplins, Robert .

2480 2114 :

Stark, Mary M.. Starkey, Luther H.

3543
Page.
1767 1732 2262 1674 1962 1638 2718 2547 1437 2690 2295 2054 2765 1577 2081 1678 2726 2329 2694 1953 2594 2334 1881 1746 1816 1629 2050 2551 1692 2340 2454 2583 2368 1576 1767 1965 1886 2706 2519 2172 1591 2361 2174 1791 1620 1832 1983 1516 1713 2079 2803 1956 2424 2608 1962 1819 2248 2160 2800 2175 1712 1705 1490 2612 1867 2724 2518 1786 2652 1483 1934 1707 2345

3544
Pensions-Continued. increased-continued . Starkins, Jennie P. Starr, William E .. Staubs, Josiah F. Stauff, Jacob .
Stauffer, Henry. Stauffer, William D. Steck, Henry J. Steel, John M.
Steel, Unity A. Steele, Hiram.. Steenrod, Edwin R. Steensrud, Inger A.
Stegman, Henry. Stegman, Lewis R. Stell, James W.. Stephens, Annie C .. Stephens, Elisha H.. Stephens, John W. Stephenson, Levi M. Sterling, Daniel G. Stern, Bettie .. Stern, Henry C... Sternberg, Henry G. Stevens, Annie M. Stevens, Edgar A.. Stevens, Evarts C. Stevens, Francis E. Stevens, John M.. Stevens, Milton .. Stevens, Thomas F. Stevens, Truman C.
Stevenson, Hugh.. Stewart, Emeline A.
Stewart, George. Stewart, George W. Stewart, James T. Stewart, James W. Stewart, Parmer Stewart, Robert.. Stewart, William C.. Stewart, William John.. Stewart, William K.. Stewart, William L.. Stewart, William T..
Stichter, John W. Stidger, Felix G. Stiehl, Henry D. Stiles, Wilbur A. Stiles , William H. Stillman, George. Stillwell, Nancy.. Stillwell, Timothy C. Stilwill, Spencer C. Stimon, Henry.. Stimpson, James H. Stinehour, Truman R. Stines, Joseph E.. Stinson, James .. Stocker, Alfred A.. Stocks, John Gardner. Stockton, Sarah E.. Stockwell, John A. Stoeckig, Louis .. Stoker, Lorenzo.. Stone, Dexter E. W. Stone, Ellen L....... Stone, John N. Stone, John T.
Stone, Mary M. Stone , Oliver M.. Stone, Simon... Storey, Joseph M. Storms , Lemuel P.

INDEX .

Page.
1888 2099 1932 2192 2354 1514 1581 1795 2397 2391 1969 2737 2679 1968 1568 2743 2285 2094 2679 1782 1997 1461 1442 2020 2808 2728 1539 2797 2554 2117 1904 2777 1996 1783 2597 2434 2233 1775 2372 1460 1523 2001 2785 1997 2504 1562 1967 2727 2685 2220 1526 2281 1945 1748 2252 1842 1652 2534 2276 1787 2729 1826 2032 1592 1567 2102 1474 1434 2199 1930 2402 2626 1816

Pensions-Continued. increased-continued .
Storr, Charles W., jr... Story, Louisa.. Stott, William T.. Stouffer, Abraham D. Stoughton, Ellen L .. Stover, Eli .. Stover, Nathan E.
Stowell, Henry S.. Stowits, George H. Strain, Hugh S .. Strang, Edmund R. Strasburg, William. Stratton, Milton..
Street, George D. Street, William J. Streeter, Urial J...
Strickland, Lyman S. Strickland, Mary E.. Strong, Elizabeth . Strong, James C .. Strong, Thomas ..
Strope, Joseph. Stuard, Lockey. Studdiford, Frederick W. Stukes, Nathaniel M..
Stults, George I.... Stump, Michael . Sturgeon, Robert. Sturgis, William J. Sturm, Frederick C. Sturtevant, Stephen V. Stuyvesant, Daisy C.. Subers, Burris...
Suddarth, Greenberry Sugs, Lawyer.. Sullivan, Beverly W. Sullivan, Daniel. Sullivan, Daniel . Sullivan, Ellen . Sullivan, Florence Sullivan, Frances A.
Sullivan, Mary.... Summers, Catherine . Sunderland , Albert.
Sutherland, James.. Sutherland, Mary A. Sutherlin, Charles W. Sutter, Benedict..
Sutton, George W. Sutton, Peter D.
Suydam, Dewayne W. Swadley, George W. Swain, Hiram. Swain, Walter B Swartz, Daniel C. Swasey, Asa E.. Swayze, Benjamin . Sweeney, Charles H. Sweet, Charles G.. Sweet, Hobart P. Sweeting, Theodore J. Swendt, Rudolph W. H. Swift, Frederic W..
Swigart, Henry.... Swords, Eliza . Tackett, Marine D .. Talham, Albert A. Tallant, Thomas H.
Tallman, Jerry W. Tanner, Edward B.
Tanner, George W. W. Tanner, Horace B. Tappan, George Arthur .

Page.
1959 2199 2046 2608 2677 2301 2439 1584 1478 2272 1473 1752 2324 1576 1484 1536 2541 2368 2669 2748 2719 2355 1527 2355 1877 2559 1484 2367
1577 1664 1623 2127 2577 1468 1982 2598 2596 2226 2498 1974 2138 2368. 1758 2590 1630 2255 1476 2112 2019 1568 2700 2162 1494 2572 2735 2739 2528 2177 2732 2600 2438 2101
1827 1928 2138 2461 2294 1966 1818 2323 2523 2296 2715

Pensions- Continued . increased -continued .
Tarlton, Stephen B. Tarter, Caleb M... Tarter, Melroe.. Tate, Jane.... Tate, Joseph D.. Tate, Theodore T .. Taylor, Alexander M. Taylor, Alexander W. Taylor, David T ..
Taylor, George K. Taylor, James D.. Taylor, James E... Taylor, John A. J. Taylor, Richard C... Taylor, William.. Tayman, Sarah A. J. Teague, Ambrose Y. Teague, Henrietta.. Teas, Joseph B.. Tebbetts, Albion W.
Tebbetts, Joseph F. Teeple, Theodore..
Teetor, Henry B .. Teets, Albert ... Templeton, W. Ira.. Templin, William. Ten Eyck, Martha H. Tenant, Amos H ... Tenney, Marcus D .. Terrell, Jonathan.. Terrill, Mark W.. Terrill, Newton E.. Terry, Fannie J... Terry, John H ..
Thackara, Mary. Thayer, Ransom O. Theall, Susan S. Thomas, Alanson B. Thomas, Elizabeth . Thomas, Erastus A. Thomas, George J.. Thomas, Hannah J. K. Thomas, Hiram B .. Thomas, Jeremiah . Thomas, Jesse A. Thomas, John W. Thomas, Webster. Thomas, William . Thompson, Abel S. Thompson, Ada A. Thompson, Addison .. Thompson, Ann. Thompson, Ann J. Thompson, Arcatie E. Thompson, Arthur.. Thompson, Charles H. Thompson, Eliza....... Thompson, Elizabeth . Thompson, George M. Thompson, Gustavus A. Thompson, James.. Thompson, Knute..
Thompson, Lyman. Thompson, Peter G..
Thompson, Philip B. Thompson, Samuel D. Thompson, Samuel S. Thompson, Thomas B. Thompson, William C. Thompson, William J. Thorn, John O .. Thornburgh, Thomas H. Thorne, Delphie.....

INDEX .

Page.
1556 1906 2038 2732 1689 2394 1812 2570 2794 2719 2188 2462 2672 2770 2041 1531 2030 2697 2004 2723 1952 2781 2033 2704 2552 2754 1926 1463 2246 1530 2579 1594 2520 2765 2039 1506 1863 1532 2105 2511 2122 2051 2157 2710 1853 2016 1622 2788 1600 1840 2512 2216 1948 1901 1645 2210 1601 1894 1908 2266 1508 2806 2786 2013 1604 2699 1790 2471 2632 1880 1652 2087 2535

Pensions-Continued . increased- continued .
Thorne, Harry C .... Thorne, Jesse A. B. Thornton, Adaline M. Thornton, Jackson D. Thornton, Thomas .. Thrasher, James H.
Thurmond, Mary J. Thurston, Epaminondas P. Tibbils, Edgar. Tibbitts, Arthur..
Tibbitts, George O. Tichenor, Travis W.
Tidswell, Thomas J. Tiesler, Bruno ....
Tillson, Henry H. Tilton, Henry A. Tilton, James F. Timmons, Milton J. Timmons, Robert . Timms, Charles W. Tims, John.....
Tinkham, George. Tinsley, William M Tipton, John.. Tisdale, Ansel K. Tobey, Adelle Tobey, James O. Tobey, William O. Todd, Edwin M.. Todd, James R.. Todd, Thomas Todd, William . Tolford, Joshua W. Tolles, Nettie E. Tomaselli, Lorenzo G. Tomlinson, George W. Tompkins, Charles E. Tompkins, Warren B. Tomson, James D. Tool, Nelson B .. Toothaker, Daniel H. Topham, Joseph L Topping, James S. Topping, Volna S Torgeson, Knute. Torrey, Rodney W. Tourgée, Emma K. Tout, Asa.. Tow, Samuel M. Tower, Charles F. Towle, John W. Town, James C .. Towne, Charles B. Towne, Lewis A .. Townsend, Annie A. Townsend, Giles . Townsend, Levi H. Trabue, Emily Hibernia. Trabue, William K. Tracy, Andrew W. Tracy, Charles H. Traver, Harvey M. Travis, James F. Trefry, John .. Tremble, David .
Trice, George W. Triplett, William . Tripp, Levi A.. Trowbridge, Carloss .. Trowbridge, George P. Truax, Joseph H.. True, George B.. Trueblood, Solomon R..

3545
Page.
1565 1961 1949 2039 2180 2259 2384 2734 1645 2328 2502 1528 1950 1438 1814 1547 1537 2463 1900 2167 2517 2528 2704 2763 1677 1443 1680 2179 2073 1570 1604 2477 1542 1850 2199 1948 2184 1797 2774 1451 2364 2365 1984 2556 . 1552 1829 2216 1683 1935 2068 2516 1963 2119 2818 2157 2561 2017 2555 2083 1901 2436 2132 2598 2435 1828 1827 1925 1630 2736 1551 2188 2175 1706

3546
Pensions-Continued . increased-continued . Truett, William... Truman, Austin B. Trumbo, David S. Trumbull, Mary J. Tuck, Charles H. Tucker, Calaway G.. Tucker, George A. Tucker, James P Tucker, Seth M.. Tuders, William . Tumey, John W. Turckheim, Reuben I. Turley, Jackson D .. Turley, Robert. Turnbull, Richard . Turner, David . Turner, Emma J. Turner, George R. Turner, J. Dillon . Turner, Jacob . Turner, Jefferson G. Turner, Mary E.. Turner, Nathaniel Lewis. Turner, Samuel . Turner, William. Turner, William H. Turner, William J. Turney, Patrick .. Tuttle, Isaac .. Twitchell, Jonathan C. S.
Tyler, Casper W. Tyler, Cassia C.. Tyler, George A. Tyler, Leonard . Tyler, Sarah A. Tyrrell , Sallie.. Tyson, Louis A. Tyson, William W. Uhler, William H. Umstead, John C .. Underwood, Eldridge . Underwood, John... Underwood , Thomas F. Upham, David .. Upton, Gainford N. Usher, Francis W. Utter, Gould E.
Utter, Henry. Valentine , Benjamin W. Valentine , Ethan A.. Vallandigham, George B. Van Alst, William .. Van Brunt, Ellen M. Van Buskirk, Reuben . Van Camp, James H.. Van De Bogert, George W. Van Derslice , Hester A. Van Dewalker, James G Van Dusen, Charles H. Van Keuren , William. Van Ostern, William V. Van Ostrand , Charles .. Van Patten, Minard . Van Riper, Abram .. Van Riper, Jeremiah. Van Scoter, Hudson J. Van Steenburg, Linas.. Van Slyke, Anthony. Van Tassell, William H. Van Tine, Charles ...
Van Volkenburgh, Isaac . Van Vorst, Adam S .. Vanbeber, Emily J ..

INDEX.

Page.
2758 2543 1835 2324 1543 1618 2423 1995 1452 2490 2767 1507 2088 2304 2758 2450 2317 2463 2226 2284 2614 2248 2709 2261 2803 2611 2296 2325 1964 1521 2664 2383 2446 2403 1643 1932 1948 2534 1690 1575 2527 1804 1721 2223 2301 1546 1622 2528 1832 2321 1924 2623 1993 2164 2078 2156 2079 2571 2150 1895 1770 2381 1835 1986 2060 2067 2462 2072 2351 2246 1558 2339 2774

Pensions-Conarued. increased-continued.
Vance, George C .. Vance, John P. Vance, Joseph W. Vancuren, Sabine . Vandegrift, John . Vandel, Abram W Vanderburgh, Effingham . Vanderwalker, George E. Vandine, Harriet E.. Vandiver, Margaret R.. Vanmatre, Cyrus .. Vantilburgh, William. Vantine, Abraham K. Vassar, John G.. Vaughan, Smith . Vaught, Stephen . Veach, John P. Veatch, Harmon . Veile, George C.. Vernon, Cynthia.. Vertner, Daniel M. Viall, John G.. Vick, Caroline . Vincent, John T.
Vincent, Joseph J. Vincent, Jotham A. Virgin , Nelson.. Visgar, William P. Vivian, John N Voris, William D. Voris, William S.
Vorous, John.. Vose, Bettie May. Vose, Elizabeth A. Voss, Charles F. Vroman, Frank. Wagenknecht, Jacob . Waggoner, María H. Wagher, Albert C .. Wagner, Adeliade . Wagner, Anna H. Wagner, Frederick W. Wagner, Henry.. Wagner, John A.
Wagoner, Joseph H.. Wainwright, Katherine F.
Wakefield, George L.. Wakefield , William.. Walden, David R. Waldorph, Marvin . Waldron , Luke.. Walgwist, Johanna . Walker, Abraham . Walker, Anna B. L.: Walker, Anna Lamar . Walker, Annie M .. Walker, Augustus . Walker, Charles A. Walker, Henry H. A. Walker, James D. Walker, Keziah ..
Walker, Margaret E. Walker, Sadie A .. Walker, William F. Wall, Asa.. Wall , James G.
Wall , Thompson . Wallace, John G. Wallace, William . Wallace, William E. Waller, Elizabeth A. Waller, Rollin T .. Wallerson , Simon Peter..

Page.
2595 1702 1868 1810 2773 2693 2206 2428 2056 2250 2078 2258 1471 2044 1926 2037 2162 2558 2674 1885 2088 2521 2649 1839 1738 2791 2268 2683 1744 2336 2558 2460 2425 1849 1970 2556 2004 2778 2453 2655 1763 2597 2464 2679
1870 1716 2145 2723 1915 2345 1860 1730 2020 2416 2250 1936 1626 2066 2795 2635 2441 2252 1582 2101 1812 2057 2322 1716 2730 1986 2204 1844 2436

Pensions-Continued . increased -continued Wallis, Samuel F... Walrod, Charles.. Walrod, Williain.. Walsh, James W. Walter, John F. Walters, Abraham. Walters, Emma . Walton, Edward.... Walton, Frederick B. Walton, Levi J.. Walton, William B.
Ward, Benjamin Q. Ward, Bolivar... Ward, Daniel .
Ward, Edward Wesley . Ward, Jacob A... Ward, James H. Ward, William H. Wardlaw, Martha E.. Wardwell, Ernest H. Ware, Rachel E ..
Warfel, George W. Warford, James H.
Warford, Stacy B. Warner, George.. Warner, John W. Warner, Thomas.. Warnes, William. Warnock, Catharine. Warren, William B.. Wascher, Henry. Washburn, Charles... Washburn, Ella C.. Washburn, George H. Washburn, Jerome.. Waskom, James.. Watkins, David M..
Watkins, Frank B..... Watkins, Letitia D .. Watkins, Samuel.... Watson, Angeline.. Watson, Eber . Watson, Joseph.. Watson, Samuel S. Watson , Willis H..... Watt, Thomas... Waugh, Thomas W.. Way, Catherine .. Way, Thomas P. Waymer, Satina A.. Wayne, Milton H. Weatherby, Edmund P. Weatherby, Harriet.. Weatherman, Calvin D.
Weatherwax, Charles Henry. Weaver, Charles H...
Weaver, Edgar.
Weaver, Joseph H. Weaver, Sanford.. Weaverling, Martha J .. Webb, Elizabeth .. Webb, James ... Webb, John M. Webb, Reuben C .. Webb, Robert . Webb, William H. Webber, Amanda O. Weber, August.. Weber, Charles W. Webster, George W. Webster, Rachel A. Webster, William E.. Wedeman. Peter...

INDEX.

Page.
2770 2364 1893 2559 1449 1636 2633 2294 2000 1590 2770 1733 2092 1686 2539 2675 1741 1952 1841 1951 1567 2806 2185 2130 2123 1489 2678 2046 2208 2077 1603 1588 2639 2290 1566 2035 2394 2066 1618 2055 1781 1573 2081 2676 1922 1777 1831 2624 2435 2750 1875 2802 2200 1707 2804 1971 2637 2108 2162 2633 1752 2032 2243 2746 2380 2630 1856 2632 2237 2136 2098 2810 2740

Pensions- Continued . increased-continued .
Weeks, Frank W..
Weeks, Morgan H. Weeks, Stephen.. Weiand, Henry A. Weigert, Catharine . Weir, Patrick.. Weise, Ferdinand . Weiser, Joel S .. Weiss, Frank L. Welch, Carner C. Welch, Hannah . Welch, John . Welch, John . Welch, Levi .. Welch, Thomas. Welch, Thomas. Welch, Thomas D. Weller, Herman G. Weller, Nelson J. Weller, William S. Wells, Alma L.... Wells, Alonzo .. Wells, George W. Wells, Henry W. Wells, John L.. Wells, John M. Wells, William J. Wentz, William. Wenzel, Adam. Wertman, William W. Wescott, Edwin D ..
Wesson, Randolph . West, Andrew J.. West, Annie A .. West, David W. West, Henry. West, James.. West, James C.
West, Joseph M. West, Lucius A. West , Richard B. West, William W.. Westcott, William H. Westervelt, Frank.. Westfall, Charles L.. Westfield, August . Westman, Cornelius . Westmoreland, Oliver T. Weston, Elizabeth .. Weston, Henry.. Westover, William G. Wetterich, Peter.. Whalen, Daniel . Whaley, Lucius D. Whaley, Thomas B. Wheeler, Carlton A. Wheeler, George W. Wheeler, Henry A. Wheeler, Joseph. Wheeler, Willard . Wheeler, William. Whipple, Warren W. Whitaker, Ann W. Whitaker, William A. Whitcomb, Anne B. Whitcraft, Laurence V. White, Alfred F. White, Ann E .. White, Ashley. White, Christina . White, Elisha . White, George F. White, James

3547
Page.
1433 2702 1568 2509 2632 2335 1440 1847 2624 1732 2673 2182 1592 2324 1554 2631 2132 2352 2639 2589 1909 2058 2764 1469 2218 1474 2428 2478 1475 2618 2119 2530 2429 2129 1900 1807 2493 2442 1670 1740 2374 1681 2371 1652 2044 1445 1903 2573 1808 1499 2013 1579 2197 1902 1832 1661 2389 1717 2510 2612 1830 2669 2210 2521 2664 1784 1602 2354 2733 1964 1518 2136 1680

3548
Pensions -Continued . increased continued . White, James White, James . White, Jennie .. White, John . White, John F. White, Lorinda J. White, Rebecca A. White, Robert H. White, Robert M. White, Samuel . White, Samuel A. White , Silas V.. White, Thomas W. White, Whitman V. Whiteman, James.. Whiting, John H. Whitlock, James S .. Whitlock, William N. Whitman, George.. Whitman, John L... Whitman , Melissa D.
Whitmore, Betsey B. Whitney, Barney. Whitney, William G.. Whitson , Robert M.. Whorton, Susan. Whybark, Samuel W. Wickham, William H.. Wickline, John .... Wicks, George W. Wigal , Jacob.. Wiggins, Ezra H. Wiggins, William . Wilber, Calvin D.
Wilburn, George W. Wilcher, William L .. Wilcox, Absalom .. Wilcox, Belah H. Wilcox , George J. Wilcox, John S..
Wilcox, Joseph P.. Wilcox , Thomas M. Wilde, Hiram. Wildman, John P. Wildy, Henry C.. Wiles, Adam.. Wiley, George Wiley, George Wiley, Jesse. Wiley, William. Wiley, William T. Wilhelm, Henry . Wilhelm, John .. Wilkerson , Isom. Wilkins, Elijah R. Wilkins, James B. Wilkins, William R. Wilkinson, James.. Wilkinson, John .. Wilkinson , John Wilkinson , John W. Will, Isaac N. S.
Willard, Joseph W. Willard, Verelle S.. Willey, Ethan A. Willey, William H.
Willhelmy, Henry B Williams, Albina M. Williams, Allen E .. Williams, Allie .. Williams, Anna .
Williams, Aquila. Williams, Benjamin F.

INDEX .

Page.
2049 1632 1917 2448 1852 1950 1460 2703 1792 2225 1970 2296 2285 2031 1465 2070 2229 1962 1802 1476 2556 1954 1634 2629 1534 1573 2329 2507 2210 1920 1951 2000 2638 1928 1520 2040 1846 2592 1,528 1501 2676 2288 1674 2720 1441 2345 2760 1541 2041 1987 1535 1843 1794 2089 1509 1679 2598 1615 1752 2099 2519 2304 1547 1707 2163 2514 2226 2652 1702 2240 2418 2492 2604

Pensions- Continued. increased continued. Williams, Byron A. Williams, Catharine. Williams, Deloss .. Williams, Harriet.. Williams, Herbert .. Williams, James.. Williams, John....... Williams, John A ..
Williams, Joseph B. Williams, Lemuel P. Williams, Lemuel T.
Williams, Mary Levina. Williams, Robert S .. Williams, Samuel F. Williams, Sarah R.. Williams, Susan J.. Williams, Thomas L.. Williamson, Jane... Williamson, John .... Williamson, John M. Williamson, Julius T. Williamson, Oscar.. Williamson, Peter J. Williamson, Robert D. Williby, Robert B .. Willie , William H.
Willis, Cornelius A. Willis , Edward...
Willison, George W. Wills, Katherine .. Willson, Thomas A.. Willy, George.. Wilson, Alexander B. Wilson, Alvah D.. Wilson, Anna M. Wilson, Elizabeth . Wilson, Helon ..... Wilson, Henrietta W.
Wilson, Henry W.. Wilson, Hugh G.. Wilson, James Wilson, James Wilson, James R.. Wilson , John L.. Wilson , John W. Wilson , Martha J. Wilson, Mary.. Wilson, Robert R.. Wilson, Sarah A.... Wilson, Thomas H. Wilson, William . Wilson, William F. Wilson, William G.. Winans, Clark A .. Winans, James J. Winans, William H. Winebrener, David C .. Wines, Albert . Winget, John P. Winn, Denis . Winn, William. Winsell, David N Winters, Ephraim .. Wintersteen, Clinton B. Wintersteen, James... Wiper, Robert.. Wise, David J. Wise, Jacob T. Wise, John W. Wise , Samuel . Wishart, John P. Witham, Asaph H. Witherspoon, Eliza Jane .

Page.
2452 2546 2053 1822 1750 1833 1805 2431 2319 1572 2439 2755 1467 1910 2314 1563 2554 2621 2022 1522 1661 1535 2372 1980 1915 2118 2620 2598 2546
1846 2668 2050 2194 2667 1755 2502 2546 1910 2782 1757 1772 1540 2619 2511 2653 1702 2389 1749 2376 1796 1429 1641 2397 1738 1442 2121 2187 1631 1552 2036 1735 1950 1842 1955 2317 1446 2498 2292 1813 2418 1888 2416 2108

Pensions Continued. increased- continued.
Witherwax , Isaac H .. Witt, Mary A.. Wittig, Charles M. Wolcott, Thomas . Wolf, Andrew H.
Wolf, Mary E.. Wolf, Robert M. Wolfe, Elizabeth .
Wonder, James A. Wood, Ahimaaz E. Wood , Almon .. Wood, Frederick . Wood , Frederick M.
Wood, George E.. Wood, Harvey F. Wood, James B. Wood, Jonathan . Wood, Kate O'Donnell.. 'Wood, Louisa L..
Wood, Lydia C .. Wood, Marcus. Wood , Martha E. Wood, Martha L. Wood, Nathan S. Woodall, Asenith .
Woodard, Andrew C. Woodard, Eli B. Woodard, George H. Woodbury, Anna M. Woodbury, Eli .. Woodcock, William D. Woodin, Alfred .. Woodruff, Jacob .
Woods, Benjamin T. Woods, George S .. Woods, Jesse.. Woods, William..
Woodsum, John E. Woodward, Charles A. Woodward, Crosby Pyle . Woodward, York A.. Woodworth, Isaac M. Woolley, Charles Woodruff. Woolley, Daniel.. Woolley, Susan .... Word, Charles S. Workman, Andrew J. Workman, Isabella .
Worley, Henry C .. Worley, John H.. Worrall, Emma . Worrell, James P. Wotring, Jehu F. Wren, Michael . Wrenn, Martha Ella .
Wright, Benjamin F. Wright, David L .. Wright, Jonathan I. Wright, Martha W. Wright, Olney P. B. Wright, Orestes B. Wright, William.. Wucher, Adam . Wyatt, Finus M. Wyman, Emery. WWyyman, Martin V. B. Wyman , Sumner P. Wyman, William H. Wynkoop, Louise M. Wynn, Elkanah M. Yager, George E. Yahn, William . Yates, Henry W.

INDEX.

3549

Page.
1577 1809 1491 1723 1943 1544 2796 2804 2527 1946 2571 2724 1790 2003 2524 2508 1606 2419 2538 1674 2266 2505 2182 2681 2027
2093 2744
1950 2676 2018
2036 1818 2091 2738
2508 1870 1808 1640 2717
1660 2051
1704 2592
1654 2336 1609 2149 1489 2358 2299
1941 2743
2386 1531
2558 2433
1455 2030
2470 1558 1865
2126 1530 2782 2131 2458 1761 1772 1827 1461 2189
2622 1682

Pensions-Continued .

Page.

increased-continued .

Yeargin, John F..

2515

Yehl, Samuel ...

2094

Yockey, Sarah E.

1845

Yoder, David ..

2513

York, Caswell .

2382

York, George E.

2607

York, Simeon.

2291

Yost, Casper.

1614

Youmans, Ashley A.

1649

Young, George..

2518

Young, James F.

2193

Young, Lewis ..

2667

Young, Robert M.

1706

Young, Sarah..

2143

Youngkin, Joel R.

2036

Youngman, Alden .

2540

Youtt, Charles E..

2609

Zacher, Henry..

2730

Zachery, William H.

2330

Zentz, Agnes ..

1508

Zimmerman, Frederick..

1665

Zimmerman, R. T. Dillard .

2354

Zimmerman, William H..

2653

Zuehlke, Julius ...

1470

repealed, Robinson , Minerva ..

2665

Pensions, Commissioner of,

appropriation for, deputies, clerks , etc .. 430, 976

Pensions, Police and Fire Department, D. C., provisions extended to mothers of members who died prior to March 1 , 1905 .... 95

Pentwater, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor ..
Peone, Lizzie, Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed ...

1097 379

Peoria, I.,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized .

775

appropriation for.

790, 1302

rent ..

1302

Pepoon, Albert F.,

pension increased .

2425

Pepper, Samuel,

pension increased .

1908

Pepperells Cove, Me., preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1113
Per Mam Su, or Comanche Jack, Indian Al-

lottee,

fee-simple title to .

365

Perdido River, Ala.,

bridge authorized across, at Waters Ferry. 79

Perkins, Henry W.,

pension increased .

1676

Perkins, Isaiah,

pension increased .

2623

Perkins, Lewis S.,

pension increased .

1989

Perkins, Vance,

pension...

2479

Permits, D. C.,

to sell poisons used in the arts, etc .; re-

newal..

177

Pernambuco , Brazil, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire .

99 293 , 924

Perrin, Noah,

pension increased ..

2402

Perry, Caroline E. (widow),

pension..

2190

Perry, Isaac N.,

pension increased..

1759

Perry, Okla., acceptance of post-office building and site. 1237

3550

INDEX.

Perry, S. Horace, pension increased ..
Persia,

Page. 2060

appropriation for minister to..

287, 917

for interpreter to legation . Personal Services,

288, 918

no official to employ or accept , without au-

thority of law..

49

Personal Tax Board, D. C.,

appropriation for salaries..

484, 1121

Personal Taxes, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses, collecting over-

due..

487, 1125

Pert, Dell E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2420

Perth Amboy, N. J.,

limit of cost increased , public building... 773

appropriation for ..

789

Peru,

appropriation for minister to..

286, 916

for secretary of legation...

287, 917

parcels- post convention with

2957

Peru, Ind.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for .

794

Petaluma Creek, Cal. ,

appropriation for improvement of......

1107

Peters, Annie E. (widow),

pension increased..

1731

Peters, Jerusha, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to....
Peters, John H., pension increased ..
Peters Neck Point, N. Y., preliminary examination to be made of

380 2703

channel to Horn River, from ....... 1115

Peters, R. A.,

payment to.

2662

Petersburg, Va. ,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ...

775

appropriation for .

790, 1302

Peterson, Borre,

pension increased .

2531

Peterson, Christian,

pension increased .

1775

Peterson, Emily (widow),

pension increased ..

1540

Peterson, Hannah C. (mother) ,

pension..

1851

Peterson, Jacob D. ,

pension increased .

1785

Peterson, William,

payment to..

2662

Petherbridge, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased .

2120

Pethers Point, Minn., bridge authorized across Rainy River at... 103

Petitt, Chalkley,

pension increased ..

1473

Petoskey, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of.

1097

condemned cannon foaned to ..

1293

Petrified Forest National Monument, Ariz. ,

proclamation setting aside ...

3266

Petroleum (see also Oil),

deficiency appropriations for examinations

into oil monopolies, etc ...

119

entry and clearance at San Luis Obispo,

Port Harford, and Monterey, Cal. , of

vessels for.

23

Pettengill, George T. ,

credit in accounts ..

2307

Pettey, Joseph B., pension increased..
Pettie, David T., pension increased ..
Pettingill, Frank S., pension increased..
Pettit, Arethusa M. (widow), pension increased .
Pettit, Benjamin F., payment to legal representatives of.......
Pettit, Bessie Sharp (widow), pension increased..
Petty Officers, Navy, credited for retirement with all service in
Army, Navy, and Marine Corps .... Pevear, Sylvester O.,
pension increased..
Pfahl, Frederick, pension increased..
Pharmacy Regulations, D. C., dispensing drugs, etc., by other than licensed pharmacists unlawful .... restriction on store owners, etc ....
physicians, dentists, and veterinarians .. poisons in the arts, etc.; permits..........
restrictions; household ammonia, etc. proprietary medicines... registered pharmacists to be licensed.. applications for license; examinations, etc. applicants for licenses must have four
years' practical experience... allowance for graduates of schools ....
homeopathic remedies... issue of licenses...
acceptance of registry elsewhere.. revocation of licenses ; causes ..
permits to dealers in poisons used in the arts; terms ...
renewals; void licenses, etc ..
display of licenses and permits . board of pharmaceutical examiners; com-
position , duties, etc .. board of pharmacy created .
to succeed to powers, etc. , of board of pharmaceutical examiners....
election of officers, etc.; transfer of records from other boards..
board of medical supervisors changed to board of supervisors of medicine and pharmacy..
duties; powers; officers, etc.. disposition of funds, etc. fees for licenses and permits .. disposition of; use of balances .
cocaine, morphine, opium, and chloral hydrate, restrictions
use by physicians limited; prescriptions in good faith..
by dentists ; veterinarians. specified poisons; manner of sale..
record , etc., required ; prescriptions excepted..
poison labels, etc. articles excepted. character of label .
evasion of restrictions by false representations forbidden .
retention of prescriptions; inspection ..... drugs sold, to be labeled ... peddling, etc. , drugs, etc. , forbidden... throwing drugs, etc. , in public places, for-
bidden .
unauthorized use of title of pharmacist, etc., forbidden..

Page. 2375
2117
1756
2046
2407
2700
451
2695
2465
175 175 175 175 175 175 176 176
1006 1006 176 176 177 177
177 177 177
177 1005
1005
1005
178 178 178 179 179
179
180 180 180
180 181 181 181
181 181 181 181
182
182

INDEX .

3551

Pharmacy Regulations, D. C. -Continued . pharmacists exempt from jury duty . repealed...
punishment for violation of provisions .. Phelon, Josephine B. (widow) ,
pension increased.. Phelps, Charles G.,
deficiency appropriation for services .....

Page. 182 1006 182
2052
43

Phelps County, Mo. ,

transferred from western to eastern judicial

district, eastern division ...

875

Phelps, Elias,

pension increased ........

2113

Phelps, M. A. , payment to personal representatives ...... 2662

Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington Railroad Company,

damages to property from changes of grade

on line of, to be paid by District .. 624

commission to appraise, hearings ; report . 624

appeals; marshal's jury, verdict..

624

consideration of benefits, etc ..

624

compensation...

625

appropriation for expenses..

625

límit of claims ...

625

Philadelphia, Pa. ,

appropriation for assistant treasurer's of-

fice....

412, 959

for mint at..

414, 961

for Naval Home

557, 1179

for mint; coal bunkers

699

for Marine Corps, addition to depot .

1191

deficiency appropriation for mint..

30, 1376

minor coins to be coined at mint; distribu-

tion ...

132

Philbrick, Maria L. (widow),

pension increased ..

2743

Philbrick, William B. ,

pensión increased.

1677

Philbrook, Daniel M.,

pension increased .

2000

Philippi, W. Va., terms of court at; rooms to be furnished ....... 891

Philippine Coinage,

change in weight and fineness of silver

coins authorized .....

453

subsidiary coins of less weight and fine-

ness ...

453

recoinage ; standard for pesos..

453

silver certificates, United States gold may be substituted for silver in reserve.. 453

redeemable in gold coin of equivalent

value......

453

maximum of gold reserve ..

454

Philippine Insurrection,

issue of medals to volunteers who served

beyond term to suppress ....

621

Philippine Islands,

appropriation for shelter, etc. , Army in

the...

254, 1171

for relief and protection of shipwrecked

seamen..

295, 925

for purchase of coal claims, in island of

Batan....

23

for constructing seacoast batteries..

1061

for paying claims for loss, etc. , of private

property in.....

1165

deficiency appropriation for repairs , etc. ,

'marine barracks

36

agricultural bank in, authorized .

1282

care, etc., of insane natives serving in Army

in ....

1173

Philippine Islands-Continued.

Page.

computation of leaves of absence, other

than to the United States, granted

officers in....

1171

immigration regulations not affected by

alien immigration act.

911

invoices from, to be authenticated by cus-

toms officer there......

539

loan of naval vessels, etc. , for nautical

schools ....

817

passenger list of vessels to United States

from , to be delivered to immigration

officer of port on arriving.

902

tariffs, etc., prior to March 8, 1902 , legal-

ized ...

636

trade with United States to be only in

American vessels after April 11 , 1909 . 154

forfeiture for violation ....

154

sailings of foreign vessels permitted ..

154

merchandise permitted ..

154

passenger traffic..

154

penalty for violations ..

154

interisland trade allowed ; regulations ..

154

regulated by Philippine government... 154

voyages begun before April 11 , 1909 , not

affected ...

154

vessels owned by United States exempt . 154

tonnage taxes on foreign vessels entering

United States from ...

154

coastwise restrictions of United States on

foreign vessels from or to, not appli-

cable until April 11 , 1909 .

154

regulation of harbor business by Philippine

Commission.....

155

rules to be issued by Secretary of Com-

merce and Labor..

155

continuance of navigation laws in force ". 155

Philippine Islands, Government of,

guarantee of income upon capital of agri-

cultural bank by, authorized ..

1282

public documents to be sent library of.......... 850 Philippine Scouts,
appropriation for pay of officers and men, 248, 1164

allowance to army enlisted men of service.

as officers in..

248

Philippine Tariff, 1905, amendments, cotton textiles ; surtax on

false selvage added .. cotton textiles, plain ..

lighter weight ...

cotton textiles, twilled , etc.

lighter weight ..

cotton blankets, etc. , dyed yarns added .

shoes and gaiters, kid and similar leather

added

26

boots and shoes not specified , classified.. 26

copra.....

entries for 60 days under old rate ..

Phillips, Charles A. ,

pension increased.

1587

Phillips (née Kennedy) , Doshia E. , Indian

Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

365

Phillips, Edwin R. ,

pension increased .

2611

Phillips, Guthridge L. ,

pension increased ..

2629

Phillips, Isaac C. ,

pension increased .

2268

Phillips, James H. ,

pension increased ..

2807

Phillips, Juliet K. (widow),

pension..

1922

Phillips, Richard, jr.,

pension increased .

1588

*****g2

3552

INDEX .

Phillips, Seth, pension increased ..

Page. 1562

Phillips, Thomas,

pension increased ..

2654

Phoenix, Ariz.,

appropriation for Indian school ......... 332 , 1021

issue of cadet rifles to Indian school ..

1021

purchase of water plant of Phoenix Water

Company, etc., authorized ..

1414

terms of court ..

283

Phoenix Brewing Company,

appropriation for refund of tax

1221

Photographs, Department of Agriculture,

sale of prints and lantern slides from ; pro-

ceeds ..

684, 1281

Physical Disabilities, penalty for bringing to United States aliens

subject to certain .

901

Physicians, D. C.,

restriction on prescribing cocaine, etc.

180

use of drugs, etc., by........

175

Piccard, Francis,

pension increased ..

1500

Pick, Levi,

· pension increased .

1679

Pickens, Jacob,

payment to..

1768

Pickens, Malinda,

added to Choctaw final roll ..

340

Picket, Thomas,

pension increased .

1431

Pickett, Maj. George E.,

payment to...

1714

Pickett, Thomas J. ,

pension increased .

1953

Pickle, Jacob M.,

pension increased.

1937

Picotte, Julia D. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

373

Picotte, Peter, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

374

Pieper, Henry,

pension increased ..

2523

Pieper, John,

pension increased .

1449

Pierce, Franklin C.,

pension increased .

1497

Pierce, George W.,

pension increased .

1904

Pierce, Ida E. G. (widow),

pension.

2564

Pierce, Jacob W.,

pension increased .

2522

Pierce, James O.,

pension increased .

2392

'Pierce, Oliver P.,

pension increased .

2289

Pierce, Ruth P. (widow),

pension increased..

1957

Pierce, Simeon,

pension increased ..

2040

Pierre, S. Dak., appropriation for Indian school .. for public building ..

370, 1046 699

Piersell, Joseph N.,

pension increased .

1979

Pigeon Bayou, La. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1089

Pigeon Point Light- House Reservation, Cal.,

right of way across, granted Ocean Shore

Railway Company..

548

Piggott, James I.,

pension increased ..

2716

Pike, Fannie L. (widow),

pension increased ..

2427

Pike, George,

Page.

pension increased..

1489

Pike Monument Association, Colo . , The Zebulon Montgomery,

medallions for, to be made at Philadelphia

mint ..

198

Pike Rapids Power Company,

may dam Mississippi River in Morrison

County, Minn..

209

location modified ..

1219

Pikes Peak Forest Reserve, Colo.,

consolidation of Pikes Peak and Plum

Creek timber land reserves and South

Platte Forest Reserve, into ..

3029

Pikes Peak Timber Land Reserve, Colo.,

consolidated into Pikes Peak, Forest Re-

serve

3029

Pilcher, Elsie Grace, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

356

Pilcher, Harriet L. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Pile, Reanna (widow),

pension increased .

1618

Pillow, Elizabeth (widow), pension increased..
Pilot Chart, Navy,
appropriation for preparing. for North Pacific, monthly .

2655
424, 970 425, 970

Pima Agency, Ariz. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of..

332, 1021

Pima Indians, Ariz.,

appropriation for irrigation, lands of..... 333

use of irrigation funds for Salt River proj-

ect; credit..

1022

Pinal Mountains Forest Reserve, Ariz. ,

proclamation establishing

2991

Pinckney, J. M. , late a Representative in Con-

gress, deficiency appropriation for sister of...... 43

Pine Bluff, Ark.,

bridge authorized across Arkansas River at. 50

construction ofpublic building authorized at 776

appropriation for......

... 791 , 1302

Pine Lake, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of entrance

to ..

1097

Pine Ridge Agency, S. D'ak.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ..... 369, 1046

for paying certain Sioux.....

374

Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, S. Dak.,

appropriation for expenses, surveys .... 371, 1048

deficiency appropriation for surveys ....... 1403

Piney Branch Bridge, D. C.,

appropriation for constructing, on line of

Sixteenth street ....

492

Ping, James M.,

pension..

2485

Pinkham, Orlando C. ,

pension increased .

1642

Pinnacles Forest Reserve, Cal.,

proclamation establishing..

3221

Pinnell, Glavina A. (widow) ,

pension....

1590

Pinney, Edward H. ,

pension increased ..

1602

Pint, Margaret (widow),

pension increased....

2574

Pipe Lines,

for oil , etc., considered common carriers .. 584

water and gas excepted .

584

Piper, Catharine (widow), 2007
pension...
Pipestone, Minn.,

appropriation for Indian school ........ 350, 1033

INDEX.

3553

Pitch, etc.,

Page.

cutting, etc. , trees on public lands for, pro- ,

hibited; penalty .

208

Plant Industry Bureau, Department of Agri- Page. culture Continued.
deficiency appropriation for investigations . 1403

Pitchford,William H., pension increased ..

for grass and forage-plant investigations . 1403 1731 Plated Ware,

Pitchlynn, Peter P.,

requirements for marking gold and silver . 261

claim of heirs against Choctaws referred to

Plato, Florence B. (widow),

Court of Claims ..

345 pension increased .

2262

Pitman, Amanda (widow),

Platt, John,

pension increased...

2012 pension increased..

2072

Pitman, John H. , pension increased .
Pitman, Sarah Ç. (widow) , pension..
Pitt, Chester R., pension increased .
Pitt, Sarah A. (widow) ,
pension.. Pittenger, Winnie C. (widow),
pension increased..

Platt, Mary S. (widow),

2232 pension increased..

2750

Platt National Park, Okla.,

2564 name of Sulphur Springs Reservation

changed to...

837

2579 Platt, Orville H., late a Senator,

deficiency appropriation for payment to

1674

widow .

43

Platt, Sterns D.,

1726 pension increased .

1431

Pittman, Jeremiah F., pension increased..
Pitts, Rebecca, added to Chickasaw final roll...................

2592 340

Platteville, Wis.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1302

Pittsburg, Kans.,

Plattsmouth, Nebr.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

779

appropriation for..

792, 1302

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for.

795

Pittsburg, Pa.,

appropriation for public building, marine

hospital.....

699

for improvement of harbor..

1080

forpneumatic tube, etc., mail service..472, 1211

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for.

795

bridge authorized across Monongahela

River at..

539, 1235

Pittsfield, Mass.,

Plauen, Germany, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire ...

99 294, 924

Playgrounds, D. C.,

appropriation for equipping and maintain-

ing..

495, 1132

for purchase of sites ..

1132

Pletzke, Christopher,

pension increased..

1522

Plimpton, Julia L. (widow),

pension increased .

1641

acquiring site and erecting public build-

Plotner, William McHenry,

ing at, authorized ..

779 pension increased ..

2710

appropriation for.

793, 1302 Plotts, Alexander,

Piute Indian Reservation, Nev.,

pension....

2127

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

Plum Creek Timber Land Reserve, Colo. ,

on...

352, 1040 consolidated into Pikes Peak Forest Re-

Piute Indians, Utah and Ariz..

serve.

3029

appropriation for purchase of lands,etc . , for . 1049 Plumas Forest Reserve, Cal.,

Place, Isaac,

proclamation establishing.

2992

pension increased .

1804 Plumb, Minnie, Indian Allottee,

Place, Susie (widow),

fee-simple title to..

365

pension increased..

1496 | Plumbing Board, D. C. ,

Plansfor Public Buildings,

composition of, changed ....

483

appropriation for.

700, 1306 Plummer, George R.,

Plant Industry Bureau, Department of Agri-

appointment as assistant surgeon, Navy,

culture,

authorized ..

1408

appropriation for salaries

679, 1265 Plumpton, Ephraim,

for general expenses of investigations . 680, 1266 pension increased .

1437

for experimental gardens and grounds 680, 1266 Plybon, James C.,

for farm , Arlington, Va.....

680, 1266 pension increased...

1434

for tea culture, sugar, etc., investiga-

Plymate, Nathaniel W. ,

tions ..

681 , 1267 pension increased .

1892

for preparing reports; examining forage

Plymouth, England,

seeds, etc..

681 , 1207'

100

for contingent expenses..

681, 1267 classification and salary of consul...

for investigation orchard diseases , Ozark

Plymouth, Mass .,

Mountains, Mo. and Ark..

681 acquiring site for public building at , au-

for grain and seed inspection and grad-

thorized ..

782

ing ..

681, 1267

appropriation for .

795

for improving, etc. , roads in Department

grounds..

681

preliminary examination of, harbor to be

made ..

1114

for seed purchase and distribution ... 682, 1267 Pneumatic Tubes, etc.,

for plant introduction garden, Chico, Cal. 683 plans, etc., to be submitted for service be-

for emergency fund, cotton- boll wee-

vil..

695, 1280

tween Printing Office and Capitol ,

etc. , by ...

1368

3554

INDEX.

Pneumatic Tubes , etc. , Postal Service.

Page.

appropriation for mail transmission by;

contracts ...

472, 1211

extension limited to Brooklyn, Cincinnati, Kansas City, and Pittsburg . 472,1211
Baltimore and San Francisco added ... 1211

Pocahontas Bell Association,

donated historic metal of the Navy for bell . 1424

Pocomoke River, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1081

Poffenberger, Hezekiah,

pension increased ..

2764

Pohlers, Sophie (widow),

pension increased .

2042

Poinsett County, Ark. , bridge authorized across Little River, in.... 112 Saint Francis River in Cross County and. 819
Point Arena, Cal.,
appropriation for rebuilding light station.. 710

Point Arguello, Cal. , deficiency appropriation for light station .. 1405

Point Cabrillo, Cal.,

light and fog signal station directed....

323

deficiency appropriation for.........

659

Point Judith Pond, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of entrance

to.

1075

Point Judith, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge; contracts...

739, 1075

examination for additional breakwater.... 1075

Point Pinos, Cal.,

appropriation for rebuilding light station.. 710

Point Pleasant, W. Va.,

inspector of hulls and boilers provided for

port of..

106

Pointe au Pelee, Lake Erie, appropriation for light-vessel.......

713, 1321

Points to State Surveys, appropriation for furnishing..

714, 1322

Poisons, D. C. ,

regulations of the sale of..

175

for use in the arts, permits, etc.

177

Police Court, D. C., appropriation for salaries ..

507, 1147

for witness fees....

507, 1147

for miscellaneous ; jurors...

507 , 1147

deficiency appropriation for jurors, etc. 642, 1379

for condemning land for new building... 642

for furnishing, etc. , new building..

886

warrants of arrests by justices of the peace

returnable to...

126

Police, D. C., appropriation for major, officers , etc .... for rent, Anacostia ; fuel ; repairs . for contingent expenses..
for flags, rent, etc.. for lot for station , Anacostia . for house of detention .. for harbor patrol expenses..

503 , 1142 503, 1143
504, 1143 504, 1143
1143 504, 1143 504, 1144

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses ..

642

reorganization ; subdivision of District in

precincts and districts ...

221

appointments; classification of privates .. 221

promotion of privates..

221

in emergent cases ; waiver of time re-

quirement

1252

appointment of additional privates of

class one to fill vacancies .

1253

officers and privates classified .

221

duties of officers ..

221

status of present force ..

221

Police, D. C.-Continued .

Page.

rules and regulations ; authority of Com-

missioners ..

221

removals; additional privates and spe-

cials....

222

regulation of charges..

222

trial boards; creation, powers, etc

222

review of findings..

222

administering oaths, etc.; pending pro-

ceedings ...

222

rules in force ratified ; changes...

222

desk sergeants made privates, class two ... 222

surgeons, appointment , qualifications, and

duties ...

222

salaries; allowance to mounted force...

223

resignations restricted ..

223

former laws continued ; effect .

223

pensions to include mothers of members

who died prior to March 1 , 1905 .... 95

inspectors added to beneficiaries of pen-

sion fund ...

1003

Political Offenses,

of aliens, not involving moral turpitude,

does not exclude admission .....

899

Polk, Blanche C. (widow),

pension...

2487

Polk, Charles G.,

pension increased .

1857

Polk, Ezekial,

pension increased.

1615

Pollard, Allison W.,

pension...

1994

Pollard and Wallace,

payment to..

2310

Pollard, Joseph,

pension increased .

1702

Pollard, Martha W. (widow),

pension...

2257

Polston, Alexander D. ,

pension increased .

1790

Polygamists, Alien,

naturalization denied to ..

598

Polygamists, etc.,

admission of alien, excluded..

899

Polygamy or Plural Marriages,

to be prohibited by constitution of Arizona. 279

Oklahoma...

269

Pomeroy, Fanny G. (widow), pension increased .

2193

Ponca Indian Allottees , Nebr., fee-simple patents authorized to certain... 356

Ponca Indians, Nebr.,

payment of share in Sioux fund; minors,

etc.

356

Ponca Indians, Okla. ,

appropriation for support , etc., of...... 362, 1043 Pontiac, Mich.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for. Pool, James,
pension increased...

795 2644

Pool, Martin, pension increased ..
Pool,Wilson J., pension increased...

2067 1487

Poole, F. M., payment to.

2662

Poor, D. C., appropriation for relief of the.......... 512, 1153

Pope, James V.. pension increased.......
Pope, Simeon D. , pension increased...

1830 2593

INDEX .

3555

Poplar Street, D. C., vacation of; reversion ..

Page. 885

Pork (see also Swine),

appropriation for inspection of........ 673, 1259

deficiency appropriation for microscopic

inspection..

42

Port Angeles, Wash.,

reappraisement of suburban lots in town

site of...

167

Port Antonio, Jamaica,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Port Arthur Ship Canal, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of Sabine

and Neches rivers may be used for . 1090

Port Arthur, Tex.,

made port of entry.

302

Port au Prince, Haiti,

classification and salary of consul..

100

appropriation for clerk hire....

294, 924

Port Bolivar, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1091

Port Chester, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement ofharbor .. 1077

preliminary examination of, harbor to be

made..

1115

Port Clinton, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1094

Port Elizabeth, Cape Colony,

classification and salary of consul ........

99

Port Harford, Cal.,

entry, etc. , of vessels for petroleum, per-

mitted at..

23

Port Hope, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul .........

100

Port Hudson, La.,

appropriation for road to national ceme-

tery ..

1347

Port Huron, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of Black

River at..

1098

Port Jefferson, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1077
Port Lavaca, Tex., preliminary examination to be made of channel from Pass Cavallo to ....... 1117

Port Limon, Costa Rica,

classification and salary of consul .......

100

Port Louis, Mauritius,

classification and salary of consul.....

100

Port Neuf Forest Reserve, Idaho, proclamation establishing.
Port Rowan, Ontario, classification and salary of consul....

3178 100

Port Stanley, Falkland Islands,

classification and salary of consul....

100

Port Wing, Wis., appropriation for improvement of........ 1101

Portage Lake, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor

of refuge..

1097

Portales Forest Reserve, N. Mex.,

proclamation establishing

3178

Porter, Alexander,

pension increased ..

2518

Porter, Frances L. (daughter),

pension increased..

1936

Porter, George,

pension increased ..

2277

Porter, Henry,

pension increased ..

1729

Porter, Horace,

thanks of Congress extended to, for recov-

ering body of John Paul Jones...

829

remarks of, at exercises at Annapolis to be printed in Congressional Record .... 829

Porter, James,
appointment authorized as DeputySurgeonGeneral, Army, retired...
Porter, Jonathan K., pension increased ..
Porter, Richard N., pension increased .
Porter Shoals, Flint River, Ga., dam, etc. , authorized at..
Portland and Seattle Railway Company,

Page. 1255 1893 2589 878

granted right of way through Fort Wright

Reservation, Wash...

927

may bridge Columbia River, Vancouver, Wash..

Portland, Me.,

appropriation for quarantine station,

House Island......

701, 1307

for improvement of harbor..

736, 1344

for public building, court-house ; transfer

of appropriation...

1302

construction of public building authorized

at.

777

appropriation for.

791

Portland, Oreg.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing...

30

Porto Rico,

appropriation for relief and protection of

shipwrecked seamen..

295, 925

for resident commissioner from ; pay-

ment ..

417

for resident commissioner, salary and

mileage...

938

for agricultural experiment stations .. 693, 1279

for quarantine system...

709

for paying claims for loss, etc. , of private

property in..

1165

deficiency appropriation for compensation

of commissioner.

1396

for traveling expenses..

1396

articles may have internal-revenue stamps

affixed before shipment..

620

deputy collector to be appointed ; issue of stamps..
duties ; returns, etc.; bond. construction of wharves, etc. , in waters of;
restrictions ..
proof of ownership of franchise, etc... approval of plans, etc .. prior rights not affected . expenses of examinations of wharves,
harbor lines, etc. , to be paid from river and harbor appropriations ...
head-tax provisions as to aliens in.. light-house tender authorized for waters of.
appropriation for..
local laws not applicable to jurors in Federal district court..
mutual transfer of lands with, to readjust naval reservation...
passenger list of vessel to United States
from, to be given immigration officer of port on arriving...

620 620
234 236 236 236
1111 898 995 1319
466
1410
902

qualification of jurors ; exemptions ; selec-

tion ...

466

waters of, included in second great coasting

district...

190

Porto Rico Provisional Regiment,

appropriation for pay; term of service .. 247, 1164

Porto Rico, Resident Commissionerfrom,

compensation established ..

994

Ports of Entry and Delivery,

entry, Port Arthur, Tex...

302

subport of entry, Sabine, Tex .

302

3556

INDEX .

Portsmouth, N. H.,

Page.

appropriation for public works, navy-

yard ...

564, 1186

deficiency appropriation for naval prison,

navy-yard..

652

Portsmouth, Va.,

construction of public building authorized

at...

777

appropriation for.

791, 1302

Portugal, appropriation for minister to . for secretary of legation ....

287, 917 287, 917

proclamation announcing reciprocal com-

mercial arrangement with .

3268

Portwood, Dudley,

pension increased ..

1793

Posey, James H. ,

pension increased ..

1766

Posey, Maria Elizabeth (daughter),

pension....

1699

Post, Emma M. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

356

Post Exchanges,

appropriation for expenses of... for hospital, Presidio, Cal ..
Post, James E., pension increased ....

253, 1169 253
1462

Post, Lewis J.,

pension increased..

2078

Post-Office Department (see also Postal Serv-

ice) ,

appropriation for Postmaster-General ,

clerks, etc ...

436, 982

for engineers, watchmen, etc.

436, 982

for chief inspector, etc ..

437,982

for purchasing agent, clerks, etc ..

437, 982

for attorneys, clerks . etc. , division of As-

sistant Attorney-General ...... 437, 982

for First Assistant Postmaster-General ,

clerks, etc ...

437, 982

for superintendent salaries and allow-

ances, etc .....

437, 982

for superintendent city delivery, etc .. 437 , 983 for Second Assistant Postmaster-General,

clerks, etc ... ..

437, 983

for superintendent railway adjustments,

etc ...

437, 983

for superintendent foreign mails........ 438, 983

for General Superintendent, etc. , Rail-

way Mail Service ....

983

for Third Assistant Postmaster-General ,

clerks, etc.

438, 983

for superintendent stamps division ,

etc

438, 983

for superintendent classification divi-

sion, etc.....

438, 983

for superintendent registry system , etc. 438 , 983

for per diem, assistant superintendents,

etc ...

438, 984

for superintendent Money Order Divi-

sion, etc...

438, 984

for Fourth Assistant Postmaster-General ,

clerks, etc ..

438, 984

for superintendent rural delivery , etc. 438, 984 for superintendent Dead -Letter Divi-

sion , etc.....

439 , 984

for superintendent post-office supplies,

etc ...

439, 984

for topographer, draftsmen , etc.

439,984

for contingent expenses ..

439, 985

for rent...

439, 985

for Official Postal Guide .
for post-route maps . for postage stamps .. for postal service..

440, 985 440,985 440.985 467, 1205

Post-Office Department-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for printing and binding. 760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for draft horse... 42 for postal service.. 42, 658, 667, 1391 , 1404, 1406

for paying Court of Claims judgments un-

der....

44, 664, 1400

for mail-lock repair shop.

657

for William A. Machen ..

657

for repairs...

657

for John N. Newkirk.

657

for Walter L. Stowell.

658

for file boxes, etc ..

658

for Postmaster-General..

1391

for White Oak Coal Company.

1391

for Annie E. Knight ...

1391

for Augusta H. Sawyer..

1391

Post-Office Department Building, Old,

appropriation for employees, care of..... 428, 974

Post-Office Inspectors,

appropriation for salaries..

467, 1205

rural delivery division, superintend-

ents and inspectors of agents to be.. 467

rural agents to be; limit...

467

for per diem; allowances ..

467, 1205

for clerks, etc. , division headquarters. 468, 1205

for traveling expenses, etc ....

468, 1205

for livery hire, rural delivery duties. ? . 1205

for expenses, division headquarters .. 468, 1205

for rewards, etc ...

468, 1205

for securing information..

468. 1205

Post-Office Supplies,

appropriation for expenses, shipping by

freight or express..

473, 1215

Post-Office Supplies Division,

appropriation for superintendent, assist-

ant, etc.....

439, 984

Post-Offices,

appropriation for postmasters...

468, 1206

for assistant postmasters first and second

class offices...

468, 1206

clerks and carriers first and second class

offices, grading and promotions ... 1206

limit second-class offices....

1206

efficiency records for promotions and reduction...
eligibility for higher positions ... transfers of clerks and carriers ; limit ;
promotion of present force..

1206 1206
1206 .

pay of auxiliary employees; eligibility

for promotion....

1207

pay of substitutes ; eligibility for pro-

motion .....

1207

for clerks, etc. , first and second class

offices...

468, 1207

additional for $600 clerks immediately

available...

1209

appointments restricted .

470, 1209

for substitutes for clerks on vacation.. 471 , 1209

for temporary clerks ; service in busy

hours ....

471-

for temporary and auxiliary clerks.

1209

for separating mails, third and fourth

class offices..

471, 1209

for unusual conditions, third and fourth

class offices..

471 , 1209

for clerical services, third-class offices ;

allowance ...

471 , 1209

for building, New York, on Pennsylva-

nia Railroad site...

1210

for rent, light , and fuel ; allowances ;

leases ....

.... 471 , 1210

for miscellaneous, first and second class .. 471 , 1210

for canceling machines.. for city delivery...

471 , 1210 471, 1210

INDEX.

3557

Post-Offices-Continued . deficiency appropriation for additional clerks in first and second class .. for clerk hire...
for rent, light, and fuel..

Page.
42 668 668

useless papers in, to be disposed of; pro-

ceeds.

186

Post-Route Maps,

appropriation for publishing................

440, 985

Postage Stamps, appropriation for manufacture ... limitation on contracts ..

475, 1214 475

Postal Cards,

appropriation for manufacture ; distribu-

tion....

475, 1214

Postal Commission, Joint,

to examine and report on second-class mail

matter...

477

existence continued , reports, etc.

1420

report ordered printed

2838

Postal Commission , Joint Congressional,

composition ; duties ....

1216

employment of necessary assistance..

1216

powers, authority, etc..

1216

report to Congress of conclusions , etc.

1216

appropriation for expenses; immediately

available

1217

Postal Convention (see also Parcels-Post Con-

ventions) ,

with Panama ..

2879

Postal Guide, Official,

appropriation for publishing............ 440, 985 Postal Service,

Office of Postmaster-General :

appropriation for advertising .. for post-office inspectors...

467, 1205 467, 1205

rural delivery division superintend-

ents, etc., made inspectors ..

467

rural agents to be inspectors..

467

for per diem inspectors in the field . 467, 1205

for salaries and expenses..

468, 1205

for livery hire, installing, etc. , rural

routes ..

1205

for expenses, division headquarters ... 1205

for rewards, etc ....

468, 1205

for printing, opinions of assistant

attorneys-general for Post-Office De-

partment...

1205

for miscellaneous ..

468, 1205

employee to sign warrants, etc., au-

thorized .

 1205

Office ofFirst Assistant Postmaster-General :

appropriation for postmasters...

468, 1206

for assistants, first and second class

offices ...

468, 1206

grading of clerks and carriers ; promo-

tions..

1206

reductions, restorations, etc.; trans-

fers ...

1206

auxiliary employees, pay, etc.

1207

substitutes, pay, etc ..

1207

for clerks, first and second class offi-

ces ...

468, 1207

appointments restricted .

470, 1209

for substitute clerks ..

471, 1209

for temporary clerks; employment in

rush hours ...

471

for temporary and auxiliary clerks .. 1209

for separating mails, third and fourth

class offices ...

471 , 1209

for unusual business, third and fourth

class offices ...

471

for unusual conditions .

1209

for clerical service, third-class offices;

allotment ....

471, 1209

VOL XXXIV , PT 3- -61

Postal Service-Continued .

Page.

Office of First Assistant Postmaster-Gen-

eral --Continued .

appropriation for commencement of

building at New York on Pennsyl-

vania Railroad site

1210

for rent, light, and fuel ; limit ; term . 471 , 1210

for miscellaneous, first and second class

offices .....

471, 1210

for canceling machines..

471, 1210

for assistant superintendents, salary

and allowance division ...

471 , 1210

for city delivery; carriers ..

471, 1210

substitutes, etc ..

1210

new offices ; carriers ..

471, 1210

allowances; mechanics ..

471, 1210

marine service, Detroit . incidental expenses.

472, 1210 472, 1210

special delivery . for miscellaneous...

472, 1211 471, 1211

Office of Second Assistant PostmasterGeneral:

appropriation for transportation, star

routes.

472, 1211

discontinuance if duplicated by rural

delivery..

472, 1211

Alaska emergency service... for steamboat service..

472, 1211 472, 1211

for mail messenger service ..

472, 1211

for pneumatic tube service..

472, 1211

limitation; exceptions .

472, 1211

for wagon service ..

472, 1211

for mail bags, etc..

472, 1211

for mail locks and keys..

472, 1211

for repair shop...

472

forbuildings for repair shops , supplies,

etc.; contract ; expenses , etc.

1211

for railroad routes...

472, 1212

readjustment of compensation; re-

ductions....

1212

: additional pay for post-office cars.. 1212

fines for delays, etc ..

472, 1212

forfreight or expressage on postal cards,

etc ..

473, 1212

supplies, etc. , to be sent by freight

or express

473, 1212

for recording, etc. , amount of second-

class matter handled....

473

record of penalty matter by Depart-

ments, etc..

473

for postal-car service..

473, 1212

for railway mail service . salaries on entrance, etc.

473, 1212 1213

for electric and cable car service ; com-

pensation....

474, 1213

Chicago underground service........ 475, 1214

for special facilities, Washington to At-

lanta and New Orleans..

475

Kansas City to Newton , Kans ..

475

for foreign mail transportation ..... 475, 1214

pier transportation, New York and

San Francisco..

475, 1214

assistant superintendent, New York. 475, 1214

for balances due foreign countries .. 475 , 1214

for miscellaneous .....

475, 1214

Office of Third Assistant Postmaster-General:

appropriation for postage stamps ..... 475, 1214

contracts .

475

for stamped envelopes and wrappers;

distribution ..

475, 1214

for postal cards ; distribution ... 475, 1214

for ship, steamboat, and way letters . 476, 1214

3558

INDEX .

Postal Service- Continued.

Page. Postal Service- Continued .

Page.

Office of Third Assistant Postmaster-General-Continued .

deficiency appropriation for steamboat

routes ..

658, 1392

appropriation for indemnity, lost regis-

tered letters

476, 1214

for railroad routes for wagon service .

658, 668, 1392 658

for miscellaneous .

476, 1214

for railway mail service

658

for counsel, second-class mail privilege

suits .

476, 1214

for foreign mails .

658, 658

for Adrian Brick and Tile Machine Com-

Office of Fourth Assistant Postmaster-Gen-

eral :

appropriation for stationery.

476, 1214

for official registry and dead-letter en-

velopes..

476, 1215

contracts for all Government service. 476

limit of printing.....

476

pany..

658

for packing boxes....

658

for miscellaneous, first and second class

offices....

658, 668, 1406

for city free delivery .

658

for rural free delivery.

658, 668, 1392, 1404

for star routes ...

658, 668, 1391 , 1404, 1406

for money-order supplies .

476, 1215

for supplies, registry service, etc .. 476, 1215

for city delivery supplies .

476, 1215

for postmarking stamps, etc.

476, 1215

for letter balances, etc.·

476, 1215

for wrapping paper, twine, etc for packing boxes, etc

476, 1215 476, 1215

for facing slips , etc ..

477, 1215

for rubber stamps, type, etc

477

for miscellaneous supplies..

477, 1215

for postmasters . for assistant postmasters .

667, 1404 668

for clerk hire...

668, 1404

for rent, light, and fuel .

668

for indemnity, lost registered mail..

668,

for advertising .

1404, 1406 068

for miscellaneous, Postmaster-General's

Office..

668

for rewards .

668, 1404

for rural-delivery service ; carriers and

clerks .

477, 1215

for stamped envelopes and wrappers . 833, 1392

for Edward F. Jones...

1392

supplies..

477, 1215

for pay of carriers ; leaves of absence.. 1215

clerks in charge of substations ... 477, 1215

for International Time Recording Com-

pany

1392

for W. C. Walsh Company

1392

compensation for water routes by

power boats ...

477, 1215

for expenses, shipment of supplies . 1215

for miscellaneous ...

477, 1215

restriction of matter sent under penalty

change in time of weighing mails, fourth

section, on account of California

earthquake .

830

special delivery by affixing ordinary

stamps after July 1, 1907 .

1244

privilege . use of franks by associations, etc. , prohib-
ited ... not applicable to Congressional commit-
tees..
joint commission to report on second-class

477 temporary employees to be paid for days

of actual service...

1391

477 useless papers to be disposed of; proceeds . 186

Postal Telegraph Cable Company,

477 deficiency appropriation for.

1374

payment to..

2312

matter; authority, appropriation, etc.
joint commission on second-class matter, continued....
record of all mail matter carried from July 1 to December 31 , 1907, to be kept .
special statistics to be prepared . report to Congress by May 1, 1908 appropriation for expenses, immediately
available ...

477
1420
1216 . 1216 1216
1216

Postmarking, etc., Stamps, appropriation for..
Postmaster-General,
appropriation for, clerks , etc... for engineers, watchmen, etc for chief inspector, etc... for purchasing agent, clerks, etc for advertising . for postal service under for inspectors....

476, 1215
436, 982 436,982 437,982 437,982 467, 1205 467, 1205 467, 1205

joint commission of Congress to investigate

postal service...........

1216

employment of necessary assistance, etc. 1216

powers, duties, etc

1216

report to Congress..

1216

appropriation for expenses ; immediately

available ...

1216

no payment to permanently incapacitated

persons .

477, 1217

civil-pension roll, etc. , prohibited ..... 478, 1217
statement of receipts and expenditures to be made with annual report ....... 1217

appropriation for supplying deficiencies .. 478, 1217

for emergencies, California earthquake .. 168

for opinions of assistant attorneys-gen-

eral ..

1205

for travel and miscellaneous ex-

penses..

468, 1206

may designate employees to sign war-

rants , etc

1206

for preparing report on second-class matter handled ..
deficiency appropriation for additional compensation ..
to cause a record made of all mail carried

473 1 1391

from July 1 to December 31 , 1907 ;

report.....

1216

to contract for envelopes for all Govern-

ment service ...

476

deficiency appropriation for additional

clerks, first and second class offices . 42

for special delivery messengers ' fees .

42 ,

668, 1391 , 1404

for repair shops .

42

for money-order supplies .

42

to dispose of useless papers in post-offices ;

proceeds ...

186

to readjust compensation to railroads for

mail transportation ...

1212

to require postal cards, supplies, etc. , to be

sent by freight ...

473

for earthquake emergencies, balance

available .

658

to serve on commission to investigate New

York postal situation ....

786

INDEX .

3559

Postmaster-General-Continued .

Page. Poultry, D. C.,

Page.

to submit with annual report estimates for

ensuing year and statement of re-

ceipts and expenditures of preced-

ing year..

1217

Postmaster, House of Representatives,

appropriation for, assistant, messengers,

etc

396, 942

for horses, mail wagons, etc

396, 942

Postmaster, Senate,

appropriation for, assistant, etc......... 391, 937 Postmasters,

may be sold by head , etc.; weighing.... 316, 854

Pound, Joseph M.,

pension increased ..

2031

Powder Factory, Army,

appropriation for erection and equipment.. 464

Powell, George C.,

pension increased.

2023

Powell, Helen G. (widow),

pension...

2174

Powell, John A. ,

pension increased .

1913

appropriation for compensation ....... 468, 1206 Powell, Julia A. (widow),

for assistant, first and second class of-

pension...

1671

fices ..

468, 1206 Powell, Lucy W. (widow),

deficiency appropriation for compensa-

pension increased ..

2100

tion .

667, 1404 Power, Charles A.,

for assistant..

668 pension increased..

1600

Potomac Electric Power Company, D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for..

1373

Potomac Flats, D. C. ,

deficiency appropriation for counsel ..... 656

Potomac Park, D. C.,

appropriation for care, etc. , Monument

grounds and ....

1341

for care and improvement .

733, 1341

for roadway to Twenty-sixth street

1341

for improvement east of tidal reservoir .. 1342

for electric lights ....... Potomac River,

735, 1343

appropriation for light station, Ragged

Point, Va..

1317

bridge authorized across, at Shepherds-

town, W. Va..

878

Power, etc. , Plantfor Congressional Buildings, appropriation for construction.. límit of cost increased ; contracts ..
Power, Henry, pension increased .....
Power Plants, Niagara River,
regulation of use of waters by...... Power Privileges,
leases for, under reclamation irrigation projects ..
Powers, Alice W. (daughter), pension.
Powers, James, pension increased ..
Powless, Ida, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to

1331 36
2491 626
117 1872 1479 380

light and fog - signal station directed at

Ragged Point..

322

deficiency appropriation for..

659

preliminary examination of, to be made for

channel to Lower Cedar Point, bid .. 1113

at Alexandria, Va...

1117

at Mount Vernon, Va..

1117

below Washington ..

1117

time extended for completing highway bridge, Washington, D. C.... 821, 1419

Potomac River, D. C.,

appropriation for improvement of, tidal

reservoir...

1081

time extended for completing highway

bridge across.. Pott, Zacur P.,
pension increased..

821, 1419 1805

Pottawatomie Indians, Citizen,

7

fee-simple patents to certain allottees..... 365 Pottawatomie Indians, Kans.,

Powless, Jerusha, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ...

380

Prague, Austria, classification and salary of consul.. appropriation for clerk hire...

99 294, 924

Prairie du Chien, Wis.,

change authorized in bridge across Missis-

sippi River at...

615

Prater, James F.,

pension increased ..

1541

Prather, Alonzo S.,

pension increased ..

2267

Pratt, Charles H.,

pension increased .

2518

Pratt, Josiah N.,

pension increased...

2760

Pratt, Lewis,

pension increased .....

1619

Pratt, Louise J. (widow),

pension increased ..

2248

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with. 347, 1030

treaty funds to credit of; per capita pay-

ments ...

1031

shares of minors, etc. , to trust funds may be

paid to guardians ..

356

Pottawatomie Indians of Wisconsin, 1

claims of, to be investigated , etc.

380

Patter, Alice Eddy (widow) ,

pension increased ...

1891

Potter, Anna Z. (widow),

pension increased ....

1547

Potter, John H. ,

payment to...

2307

Potter, Mary G. (widow) ,

pension increased...

2671

Potter, Norman C. ,

pension increased ...

1731

Potter, Page G. ,

pension increased ...

2451

Potts, Annie, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

345

Pratt, Morton A. ,

pension increased..

2762

Preble, Turner J.,

pension increased...

2596

Precious Metals,

appropriation for collecting statistics of . 409, 956

printing extra copies of annual report of

statistics, 1905, ordered ...

1425

number increased ..

1425

Preisinger, Fred,

pension increased .

1458

Prendergast, Joseph H. ,

pension increased ..

2404

Prendeville, Charles,

pension increased.

2754

Prentiss, John M.,

pension increased .

1858

Prentiss, Joseph L.,

pension...

1635

Presbyterian Alliance, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

870

3560

INDEX.

Prescott, Ontario, classification and salary of consul .... rescott, Roswell, pension increased..

Page. 100
2255

/Prescriptions, D. C. , Physicians,

retention of, etc. , by pharmacists ..

181

President of the United States (see also Procla-

mations) ,

appropriation for compensation ..

400, 947

for Secretary, assistants, clerks, etc .... 400 , 947

for expenses, restricting immigration of

alien laborers ....

1330

allowed not exceeding $25,000 for traveling

expenses...

454

appropriation for .

454, 1342

appointment of midshipmen at large and ·

from the District ...

578

approval necessary for dismissal of Reve-

nue-Cutter Service officers ..

201

to acts, etc., of Five Civilized Tribes .. 148

authority for contracts for Isthmian Canal

construction not limited as to total.. 1370

authorized to receive from Cuba reim-

bursement of Army expenses....

1381

may appoint Reuben A. Campbell assist-

ant surgeon, Navy .........

632

James Carroll as surgeon with rank of

major....

1057

Kenneth G. Castleman, lieutenant in the

Navy.

634

Harold D. Childe, ensign in the Navy ... 1417

Midshipman Francis J. Cleary, ensign in

the Navy..

633

Harry McL. P. Huse, commander, Navy. 892

Birchie O. Mahaffey, John A. Cleve-

land, and Traugett F. Keller, as sec-

ond lieutenants ..

1225

James H. Oliver, retired, as commander

on Navy active list .

632

Julian Taylor Miller, assistant surgeon,

Navy ..

892

George R. Plummer, assistant surgeon,

Navy...

1408

Joseph Y. Potter, deputy surgeon-gen-

eral, Army, retired...

1255

may call international conference for regu-

lation of emigration , etc..

909

may direct light-house tenders to be built

at navy-yards...

858

may increase loan of naval equipment to

certain military schools ..

620

may refuse entrance of holders of foreign

passports in cases detrimental to labor

conditions..

898

may restore Leonard Martin Cox as civil

engineer, Navy.......

1407

may use naval stores for relief of Jamaica

citizens ..

850

message on Panama Canal to be printed... 1418

opening ceded Coeur d'Alene Indian land

by proclamation ..

337

requested to negotiate with Great Britain

for preservation of Niagara Falls,

etc ..

628

requested to hold naval and military re-

view at Tampa Exposition....

2835

requested to return bill authorizing dams

at Muscle Shoals, Ala ....

2839

to amend District of Columbia Code ... 2838

to correct military record of John

McKinnon

2838

opening to settlement Kiowa, etc. , reser-

vations .

2830

relating to homestead entries on Co-

lumbia Indian Reservation, Wash.. 2833

President ofthe United States- Continued. requested to return bill to pension Bronson, William N .. Castinette, Louis Dezarn, Hezekiah English, John E .. George, Reuben A. Hammond, John W Harmon, Lorenzo F Hawkins, Nicholas M. Henry, Charles E Hudson, Elijah B.. Ingram, Jolin .. Jones, David A.
McWilliams, John W. May, Byron K. Morrison, Felix G .. Parker, John B...
Sanderson, Helen C.. Smith, Daniel G.
Spangler, Elijah .. to announce admission of State of Arizona .
State of Oklahoma .

Page.
2840 2838 2839 2834 2838 2832 2838 2840 2837 2840 2837 2830 2839 2832 2840 2830 2833 2838 2829
280 271

to appoint commission on waterway be-

tween Delaware and Chesapeake

bays .......

835

three members of joint commission on

immigration ...

909

two additional members of Interstate

Commerce Commission...

595

trustees Industrial Peace Foundation... 1242

to declare setting apart of public lands hav-

ing objects of historic interest ...

225

to designate wild game preserve in Grand

.Canyon Forest Reserve ..

607

to determine royalties to Osages under

mineral leases....

543

to invite meeting of International Congress

of Hygiene and Demography in

Washington.

1422

to open to settlement unallotted lands of

Blackfeet Indian Reservation, Mont . 1035

to prescribe fees for consular certification

of invoices....

101

manner of opening of Colville Reserva-

tion , Wash. , to settlement..

81

to transfer lands to Porto Rico.

1410

Presidential Elections,

money contributions by corporations for,

prohibited ...

846

penalty...

865

·Presidio of San Francisco , Cal.,

appropriation for post hospital, power-

house..

1172

for improving grounds.

1348

Presley, Anthony W.,

pension increased ..

1559

Preston, Aaron,

pension increased ..

2539

Preston, Davis,

pension increased ..

1982

Preston, Francis W., pension increased..

1736 .

Preston, Hannah A. (widów),

pension increased .

1713

Preston, Iowa, condemned cannon granted to ..
Preston, Nelson S., pension increased ..

1422 2110

Preston, Samuel,

pension increased ..

1699

Preston, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased.......

1456

INDEX.

3561

Pretoria, South Africa, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire...
Prettyman, James, pension increased .
Price, Andrew J., pension increased .
Price, Catharine (widow), pension increased ...
Price, George, pension increased .
Price, James A. , pension increased .
Price, James C. pension increased...
Price, John G., pension increased
Price, Joseph W., pension increased
Price, Levi L., pension increased

Page. 99
294, 924 1550* 2796
2029 2329 2128 2627
2650 1444 1995

Priddy, Charles M.,

pension....

1696

Priest River Forest Reserve, Idaho and Wash.,

proclamation enlarging . Prime, Edward B. ,
pension increased .

3257, 3309 2106

Primrose, Thomas H.,

pension increased

2351

Prince, Charles H.,

pension increased .

2213

Prince William Sound, Alaska,

appropriation for light and fog-signal sta-

tion, Hinchinbrook, entrance to . 711, 1318 Princeton Battle Monument Association,

appropriation for aid to erect monument on

Princeton, N. J. , battlefield ...

224

Princeton, N. J.,

appropriation for monument to commemo-

rate battle of..

224

Pringle, David R. ,

pension increased

1527

Printing (see also Public Printing and Bind-

ing), may be done at Indian schools....

330, 1018

Printing Committees (see Joint Committee on

Printing).

Printing Investigation Commission , Congressional,

constitution of; extent of investigations;

reports....

1394

inquiry and report on branch printing

offices...

1394

clerical assistance ..

1394

powers to take testimony, etc..

1394

deficiency appropriation for expenses... 1394

Prioleau, Aaron P.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses ..

661

Prison Commission, International, appropriation for annual contribution ... 291 , 921
Prison, Military, appropriation for, Fort Leavenworth, Kans . 743

Prisoners, D. C.,

appropriation for transporting, to work-

house ....

510, 1150

Prisoners, United States Courts,

appropriation for support of.

756, 1362

deficiency appropriation for support of .

48,

667, 669, 1403

good-conduct provisions extended to exist-

ing sentences.....

149

Pritchard, Jesse L. ,

pension increased .

2437

Pritchard, Parker, pension increased .
Private Cars (see Car Supply, Railroads). Private Claims, House of Representatives,
appropriation for digest of, Fifty- second to Fifty-seventh Congresses...
Private Land Claims,
deficiency appropriation for surveying............ Probation Officers, D. C.,

Page. 1831
393 47

appointment by juvenile court ; duties,

etc...

73

Proceedings in Congress, appropriation for printing and binding . 759, 1366
Proceedings, Legal, may be conducted by Attorney-General, special counsel, etc. , in any district . 816

Prochel, Samuel,

pension increased

2321

Proclamations,

announcing death of John Hay, Secretary

of State...

3112

reciprocal commercial arrangement with Bulgaria..
with Germany.
with Portugal . with Spain . with Switzerland .

3231 3192 3268 3227 3185

asking aid for Valparaiso earthquake suf-

ferers .

3227

consolidating Maury Mountain Forest Reserve with Blue Mountains Forest

Reserve .

3302

Pikes Peak and Plum Creek timber

land reserves and South Platte For-

est Reserve into Pikes Peak Forest

Reserve, Colo .

3029

Tahoe and Yuba forest reserves, Cal.

and Nev. , into Tahoe Forest Re-

serve ..

3232

declaring Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, Ariz., a game preserve
Wichita Forest Reserve, Okla., a game
preserve
designating Thursday, November 30, 1905, as Thanksgiving Day..
Thursday, November 29, 1906, as
Thanksgiving Day. directing entries for Shoshone Reservation
lands to be made at Shoshoni, Wyo . extending copyright benefits to citizens of
Norway granting Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, part of
Fort Sherman abandoned military reservation ..

3263 3062 3184 3242 3222 3111
3004

inviting foreign nations to participate in celebration of Jamestown Tercen-

tenary

2997

militia to participate in Jamestown cele-

bration ...

3205

modifying area of Ashland Forest Reserve,

Oreg...

3196, 3298

Battlement Mesa Forest Reserve, Colo .. 3076

Big Belt Forest Reserve, Mont .

3283

Big Hole Forest Reserve , Mont. and

Idaho ...

3281

Black Mesa Forest Reserve, Ariz ..

3218

Bitter Root Forest Reserve, Idaho and

Mont .

3044

Cascade Forest Reserve, Oreg..

3300

Cascade Range Forest Reserve, Oreg... 3270

Chiricahua Forest Reserve , Ariz ....

3244

Diamond Mountain Forest Reserve, Cal . 3241

Fish Lake Forest Reserve, Utah ..

3189

Gallatin Forest Reserve , Mont ..

3193

Gila Forest Reserve

3123

3562.

INDEX.

· Proclamations -Continued .

Page.

modifying area of Grand Cañon Forest

Reserve, Ariz ..

3009

Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, Ariz .... 3223

Hell Gate Forest Reserve , Mont..... 3213, 3230

Holy Cross Forest Reserve , Colo ..

3286

Jemez Forest Reserve, N. Mex ..

3261

Kootenai Forest Reserve, Mont. and

Idaho...

3253

Lewis and Clark Forest Reserve , Mont .. 3304

Lincoln Forest Reserve, N. Mex ... 3175, 8216

Little Belt Forest Reserve , Mont ..

3180 ,

Lolo Forest Reserve , Mont.. Madison Forest Reserve, Ariz .. Manti Forest Reserve, Utah .

3254, 3277 3260
2995, 3148 3188

Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, Colo. and

Wyo....

3039, 3303

Montezuma Forest Reserve, Colo..

3307

Olympic Forest Reserve, Wash ..

3306

Park Range Forest Reserve , Colo .

3285

Payson Forest Reserve, Utah .

3127

Priest River Forest Reserve, Idaho and

Wash.

3257, 3309

Rainier Forest Reserve , Wash .

3296

San Isabel Forest Reserve, Colo . San Jacinto Forest Reserve, Cal.. San Juan Forest Reserve , Colo .. Santa Barbara Forest Reserve, Cal . Sawtooth Forest Reserve, Idaho .. Sevier Forest Reserve , Utah . Shasta Forest Reserve , Cal .. Sierra Forest Reserve, Cal . Siskiyou Forest Reserve, Oreg .. Stanislaus Forest Reserve, Cal .

3083 3276 3308 3238 3260 3187 3235 3133 3280 3229

Tahoe Forest Reserve, Cal . and Nev ... 3163

Uintah Forest Reserve, Utah and Wyo .. 3116,

3186, 3207, 3240

Uncompahgre Forest Reserve, Colo... 3282

Washington Forest Reserve, Wash.. 3088, 3297

Weiser Forest Reserve, Idaho..

3199, 3294

Wenaha Forest Reserve, Oreg. and Wash. 3279

Wichita Forest Reserve, Okla.

3207

Yellowstone Forest Reserve,Wyo. , Mont . ,

and Idaho ..

3049, 3291

offering for sale asphaltum, etc., lands in

Uncompahgre Reservation, Utah ... 3214

opening to entry ceded lands of Crow In-

dian Reservation , Mont..

3200

Shoshone or Wind River Reservation,

Wyo....

3208

Uintah Indian Reservation , Utah..

3119

provisions for drawings, modified...... 3140

reserving agricultural and reservoir

lands for Indians .

3141

additional

3143

reservoir site diminished

3143

Walker River Indian Reservation, Nev . 3237

opening to homestead entry certain Indian

pasture and wood reserves in Okla-

homa ..

3233

prohibiting export of arms, etc., to Santo

Domingo..

3183

reserving town-site lands, Uintah Indian

Reservation, Utah..

3139

lands for town site entries under reclama-

tion act, Hailey, Idaho, land dis-

trict ...

3216

restoring to public domain two lots in Uin-

tah Indian Grazing Reserve , Utah .. 3228

two sections reserved for Mission Indians,

Cal

3037

setting apart Baboquivari Forest Reserve ,.

Ariz..

3251

Bear Lodge Forest Reserve. Wyo .... 3287

Proclamations-Continued .

Page.

setting apart Bear River Forest Reserve, Idaho and Utah....
Beaver Forest Reserve, Utah .
Big Belt Forest Reserve, Mont. Big Burros Forest Reserve, N. Mex... Big Hole Forest Reserve, Mont .. Blue Mountains Forest Reserve, Oreg.. Cabinet Forest Reserve , Mont. and
Idaho...

3206 3189 3151 3274 3254 3194
3295

Caribou Forest Reserve, Idaho and Wyo . Cassia Forest Reserve, Idaho. Charleston Forest Reserve, Nev .. Chesnimnus Forest Reserve, Oreg. Cochetopah Forest Reserve, Colo Coeur d'Alène Forest Reserve , Idaho .. Colville Forest Reserve, Wash. Coquille Forest Reserve, Oreg . Crazy Mountains Forest Reserve, Mont .. Diamond Mountain Forest Reserve, Cal . Dixie Forest Reserve, Utah Ekalaka Forest Reserve, Mont .. Elkhorn Forest Reserve, Mont . Fillmore Forest Reserve, Utah Fremont Forest Reserve, Oreg.. Fruita Forest Reserve, Colo . Gallinas Forest Reserve, N. Mex .. Garden City Forest Reserve, Kans Gila River Forest Reserve , N. Mex.. Glenwood Forest Reserve, Utah .. Goose Lake Forest Reserve, Oreg. Gunnison Forest Reserve, Colo .. Helena Forest Reserve, Mont .. Hell Gate Forest Reserve, Mont Henrys Lake Forest Reserve, Idaho . Heppner Forest Reserve, Oreg.. Holy Cross Forest Reserve, Colo . Huachuca Forest Reserve, Ariz ... Imnaha Forest Reserve , Öreg. , in place
of Wallowa and Chesnimnus. Independence Forest Reserve , Nev .. Jemez Forest Reserve, N. Mex Klamath Forest Reserve, Cal.. Kootenai Forest Reserve, Mont.. La Sal Forest Reserve, Utah and Colo .. Las Animas Forest Reserve, Colo .. Lassen Peak Forest Reserve , Cal . Leadville Forest Reserve , Colo Lemhi Forest Reserve , Idaho . Little Rockies Forest Reserve, Mont Lolo Forest Reserve , Mont Long Pine Forest Reserve, Mont . Magdalena Forest Reserve , N. Mex Manzano Forest Reserve, N. Mex Maury Mountain Forest Reserve, Oreg . Missoula Forest Reserve, Mont . Monterey Forest Reserve, Cal Montezuma Forest Reserve, Colo Monticello Forest Reserve , Utah . Mount Taylor Forest Reserve, N. Mex . North Platte Forest Reserve, Nebr .. Otter Forest Reserve , Mont Ouray Forest Reserve, Colo Palouse Forest Reserve, Idaho . Park Range Forest Reserve, Colo Payette Forest Reserve, Idaho .. Peloncillo Forest Reserve , N. Mex . Pinal Mountains Forest Reserve , Ariz .. Pinnacles Forest Reserve , Cal... Plumas Forest Reserve , Cal.. Port Neuf Forest Reserve, Idaho . Portales Forest Reserve , N. Mex .. Pryor Mountains Forest Reserve, Mont. Raft River Forest Reserve, Idaho and
Utah .....

3267 3099 3252 3022 3101 3256 3288 3299
3224 3113 3147 3255 3024 3200 3231 3191 3243 3131 3126 3275 3226 3025 3196 3168 3052 3222 3144 3255
3284 3251 3182 3001 3225
3190 3289 3063 3013 3248 3290 3234 3235 3245 3257
3066 3259 3218 3106 3272 3239 3193 3305 3271 3293 3079 3067 3248 2991 3271 2992 3292 3178 3258
3247

INDEX.

3563

Proclamations-Continued .

Page.

setting apart Ruby Mountains Forest Re-

serve, Nev

3198

Salmon River Forest Reserve, Idaho ... San Juan Forest Reserve, Colo ...
San Luis Obispo Forest Reserve, Cal ... San Mateo Forest Reserve, N. Mex .. Sawtooth Forest Reserve, Idaho .. Sevier Forest Reserve , Utah . Shasta Forest Reserve, Cal .. Short Pine Forest Reserve, S. Dak. Sierra Madre Forest Reserve, Wyo ..
Siskiyou Forest Reserve, Oreg. SnowyMountains Forest Reserve, Mont . Stony Creek Forest Reserve, Cal.... Taos Forest Reserve, N. Mex .. Tillamook Forest Reserve, Oreg. Toiyabe Forest Reserve, Nev . Tonto Forest Reserve , Ariz .. Trinity Forest Reserve, Cal . Tumacacori Forest Reserve, Ariz .
Umpqua Forest Reserve, Oreg . Uncompahgre Forest Reserve, Colo.. Vernon Forest Reserve, Utah. Wallowa Forest Reserve, Oreg. Wasatch Forest Reserve, Utah . Weiser Forest Reserve , Idaho .. · Wenaha Forest Reserve, Oreg . and Wash. Wet Mountains Forest Reserve, Colo ... Yuba Forest Reserve, Cal... setting aside Devils Tower National Monu-
ment, Wyo. El Morro National Monument, N. Mex .. Montezuma Castle National Monument,
Ariz . Petrified Forest National Monument,
Ariz .
suspending discriminating tonnage dues, etc. , on imports from Panama...
Proctor, Alexander, Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed

3250 3070 3217 3249 3058 3020 3157 3129 3242 3239 3246 3273 3262 3310 3278 3166 2998 3263 3301 3109 3197 3004 3225 3055 3010 3096 3184
3236 3264
3265
3266
3038
345

Proctor, Daniel A. ,

pension increased

1692

Proctor, Manda , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed from lands

of...

346

Proctor, Toney E.,

appropriation for..

339

Professions, Learned,

aliens belonging to, not excluded admis-

sion .

899

Professors of Mathematics, Navy,

allowances for.....

555

two additional, to be appointed ; rank...

579

Progreso, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul .......

100

Propagation of Food Fishes, appropriation for.....

720, 1328

Property, D. C.,

penalty for willfully defacing, etc. , public

or private, increased ..

126

penalty for taking away another's, in-

creased ..

127

Property Yard, D. C.,

appropriation for purchase, etc ........ 489, 1126

Proprietary Foods,

provisions of pure-food act as to.

771

Proprietary Medicines, D. C.,

sale of, permitted ; exception ..

175

Prose, James S. ,

pension increased ..

1989

Prospect Hill Cemetery, D. C.,
appropriation for purchasing land from, to extend W and Adams streets ...... 1008

Prosser, Thomas, pension increased
Prost, Richard, pension increased .
Prostitutes, etc.,
admission of alien, excluded ..
deportation of alien, illegally entered .. Prostitution,

Page. 2342
2602
899 900

importation of alien females for, pro-

hibited ..

899

punishment .

900

Protecting Public Lands , etc.,

appropriation for expenses ..

724, 1332

deficiency appropriation for expenses..... 666 .

Prout, Lizzie H. (widow),

pension....

2009

Prouty, Thomas J. ,

pension increased .

2532

Providence Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for isolating wards, minor

contagious cases..

506, 1146

for support of destitute patients .. 745, 1350

for reimbursing for reconstruction ex-

penses; condition...

1350

Providence, R. I.,

appropriation for public building..

699, 1302

for improvement of harbor and river . 1076, 1345

Providence River, R. I.,

appropriation for improvement of...... 739, 1076

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1116

Province, David,

pension increased

2474

Provincetown, Mass. ,

appropriation for aid to monument at , to

first landing of the Pilgrims, etc .... 225

for improvement of harbor....

1074

Proving Ground, Army (see Sandy Hook, N. J. , Army Proving Ground) .
Provisions, Army (see Subsistence Depart-

ment, Army).

Provisions, Marine Corps, appropriation for....

580, 1201

Provisions, Navy, appropriation for.. rations modified .
issue of rations; reappropriation ..

570, 1192 570 1193

deficiency appropriation for.... 47, 648, 666, 1386 . Provo, Utah,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for...

794, 1302

Prucha, F. G.,

payment to.

2662

Prudence Island, R. I.,

appropriation for additional land for light

station..

1317

Pruit, Nancy (widow) ,

pension increased .

1955

Pruitt, Deborah J. (widow),

pension increased

2180

Prunkard, David,

pension increased .

2787

Pryce, James A. ,

pension increased .

2570

Pryor Mountains Forest Reserve, Mont. , proclamation establishing ..
Public Buildings, appropriation for Allentown , Pa .. for Baltimore, custom-house .. additions to post-office.. rent .
for Battle Creek, Mich . for Biloxi, Miss..
for Buffalo, N. Y. , marine hospital .

3258
697 697 697, 1295 697 697 697 697

3564

INDEX.

Public Buildings-Continued.

Page.

appropriation for Burlington, Vt for Cedar Rapids, Iowa, rent

697 697, 1296

for Cheyenne, Wyo ...

697

for Chicago, Ill. , interior decorations ..

697

post-office and court-house

1296

for Cleveland, Ohio ..

697, 1296

rent ....

698, 1296

for Colorado Springs, Colo.

698, 1297

for Columbus, Ohio, rent

1297

for Deadwood , S. Dak .

698

for Dekalb, Ill...

698

for Elizabeth City, N. C.

698

for Evanston, Ill ..

698

for Evanston, Wyo .

698

for Fargo, N. Dak.

698

for Fresno, Cal ..

1298

for Geneva, N. Y.

698

for Hammond, Ind .

698

for Huntington, W. Va.

698

for Laredo, Tex ..

698, 1300

for Lebanon, Pa ..

698

for Los Angeles, Cal. , rent .

698, 1300

for Macon, Ga...

698, 1300

rent ..

698, 1300

for McKeesport, Pa.

698

for Muncie, Ind..

698

for Muskegon, Mich .

698

for Nashville, Tenn ..

698, 1301

for Newcastle, Pa..

698

for New York, N. Y. , custom-house

698

furnishing .

1314

rent...

699

for New York post-office, special repairs . 698

for Niagara Falls, N. Y....

699, 1301

for Ogden, Utah..

699

for Peoria, Ill..

1302

rent .

1302

for Pierre, S. Dak. for Philadelphia, Pa. , mint . for Pittsburg, Pa. , marine hospital . for Providence, R. I..

699 699 699 699, 1302

for San Francisco, Cal. , custom-house . additional for site..
heating plant.. subtreasury. for Sherman , Tex..
for Spartanburg, S. C .. for Superior, Wis. for Washington, Pa. for Watertown, N. Y., rent .

699, 1303 1303 699
1303 699, 1304
699
699, 1304 699 1305

for Wheeling, W. Va ... for Youngstown, Ohio, rent for Treasury building, D. C. for repairs and preservation..

699, 1305 1305
699, 1305 699, 1306

buildings on acquired sites may be

temporarily rented ..

1306

for heating, etc. , apparatus ..

700, 1306

for vaults, safes, and locks ..

700, 1306

for plans, etc. , for...

700, 1306

for electrical protection for vaults ... 700 , 1306 for buildings for State, Justice, and Com-

merce and Labor Departments ... 700

repealed..

840

for marine hospitals .

1306

for assistant custodians and janitors .. 707, 1313

for general inspector of supplies ..... 707 , 1313

for inspector of furniture, etc. , assist-

ant .

707, 1314

for furniture and repairs .

707, 1314

for furnishing New York custom-house 707 , 1314

for fuel, light, and water...

707, 1314

restriction on pneumatic mail tubes .. 708

for Agricultural Department, D. C ... 758, 1364

Public Buildings-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for commencing post-office,

Pennsylvania Railroad site, New

York, plans, etc

1210

deficiency appropriation for vaults, safes,

and locks...

28, 45

for furniture and repairs . 28 , 45, 665, 1374 , 1401

for Denver, Colo . , mint ..

30

for Norwich, Conn...

30

for Pekin, Ill...

30

for Philadelphia, Pa. , mint .

30

for Portland, Oreg..

30

for repairs and preservation. for heating apparatus ... for Springfield, Ill ... for Treasury building, D. C. , repairs .. for Kansas City, Mo.. for Nashville, Tenn.. for Rome, Ga.... for Los Angeles, Cal .. for Chicago, Ill . , post-office, etc for assistant custodians and janitors ...
for fuel, lights, and water.. for New York, custom -house, rent .. for Salt Lake City, Utah.. for San Francisco, post-office, etc.. for Savannah, Ga. , marine hospital .. for Toledo, Ohio ....

30, 45 30, 1401
31 31 31 31 31 31 31, 638 45, 832 45 638 638 638 639 639

for repairs, etc., earthquake damages,

San Francisco post-office and court-

house..

639

San Francisco, mint .

639

subtreasury ..

639

appraiser's stores .

639

San Jose, Cal.

639

Oakland , Cal.

639

for Louisiana, Mo ..

1375

for Hartford , Conn ..

1375

Denver, Colo. , plans, etc. , for new build-

ing to be prepared...

1277

land in Hilo, Hawaii, set apart for.

302

part of Fort Brady Reservation, Mich ., re-

served for Sault Sainte Marie .....

180

site and building authorized at Athens,

Ohio ......

1294

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act,

limit of cost increased , Allentown, Pa .... 773

appropriation for.

789

Atlantic City, N. J.

773

appropriation for..

789

Baraboo, Wis ..

774

appropriation for .

789

Burlington, Vt....

774

appropriation for.

789

Colorado Springs, Colo ..

773

Columbia, Mo ....

773

appropriation for.

789

Crawfordsville, Ind .

773

appropriation for .

789

Dallas, Tex ..

774

appropriation for.

789

Deadwood, S. Dak .

773

appropriation for.

789

Decatur, Ill...

773

appropriation for.

1297

Eau Claire, Wis ..

774

Elizabeth , N. J.

773

appropriation for.

1298

Evanston, Wyo ..

774

appropriation for .

790

Flint, Mich ..

773

appropriation for.

1298

Gainesville , Fla..

773

appropriation for.

1298

INDEX.

3565

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act- Cont'd .

Page.

limit of cost increased , Gloversville , N. Y. 773

appropriation for..

789

Green Bay, Wis ..

774

appropriation for.

1298

Ithaca, N. Y ..

773

appropriation for.

1299

Kingston , N. Y ...

773

appropriation for .

1299

Littlefalls, N. Y.

773

appropriation for.

1300

Meriden, Conn..

773

appropriation for.

1301

Montgomery, Ala..

773

appropriation for .

789

Nevada, Mo ..

773

appropriation for .

1301

New York, N. Y. , custom-house.

773

appropriation for..

789

Ogden, Utah

774

appropriation for.

1302

Owosso, Mich ..

773

appropriation for.

1302

Perth Amboy, N. J.

773

appropriation for .

789

Reno, Nev ..

773

appropriation for. Rochester, N. Y.
appropriation for. rent.

1303 773 789, 1303 1303

Saint Joseph, Mo ..

773

appropriation for ..

789

Saint Paul, Minn.. appropriation for ..

773 789, 1303

Saratoga Springs, N. Y.

773

appropriation for.

1303

Selma, Ala...

773

appropriation for.

1304

Spokane, Wash ..

774

appropriation for.

1304

Takoma, Wash..

774

appropriation for.

1304

Warren, Ohio ..

773

appropriation for. Wausau, Wis........
appropriation for. West Chester, Pa..
appropriation for.

1304 774 789, 1305 773 789

Winston-Salem, N. C ..

773

appropriation for.

789, 1305

Yankton, S. Dak..

774

appropriation for.

789

enlargement, etc. , of, authorized at Ashe-

ville, N. C..

774

appropriation for.

790, 1295

Aurora, Ill...

774

appropriation for.

790

Brooklyn, N. Y ..

774

appropriation for.

790

Chattanooga, Tenn . appropriation for.

775 790, 1296

Columbus, Ohio..

774

appropriation for..

790, 1297

Council Bluffs, Iowa..

774

appropriation for.

790

Denver, Colo ...

774

appropriation for.

790

Detroit, Mich..

774

appropriation for. Fort Worth, Tex ..

790, 1297 775

appropriation for... Gainesville, Tex ...

790, 1298 775

appropriation for .

790

Jackson, Miss

774

appropriation for .

790, 1299

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Cont'd

Page.

enlargement, etc. , of, authorized at Lynch-

burg, Va...

775

appropriation for.
New York, N. Y. , assay office . appropriation for..
Newbern, N. C.

790, 1300. 774
790, 1301 774

appropriation for.

790

Newport, R. I ...

775

appropriation for.

790

Ottumwa, Iowa..

774

appropriation for.

790, 1302

Petersburg, Va.... appropriation for.
Rome, N. Y. appropriation for.

775 790, 1302
774 790

Salem, Oreg.. appropriation for.
San Antonio, Tex.. appropriation for.
Sheboygan, Wis... appropriation for.
Toledo, Ohio......

775 790
775 790, 1303
775
790, 1304 775

appropriation for. Trenton, N. J...

790, 1304 774

appropriation for . Tyler, Tex..

790, 1304 775

appropriation for . Waldoboro, Me..
appropriation for . Washington, D. C. , custom-house .
appropriation for.. Wichita, Kans..

790, 1304 774 790 775 790 774

appropriation for. Youngstown, Ohio..

790, 1305 775

appropriation for.

790, 1305

acquiring land for, and extending, Butte,

Mont..

775

appropriation for.
Cedar Rapids, Iowa. appropriation for.
Duluth, Minn ..

790 . 775 790, 1296 775

appropriation for. Erie, Pa..
appropriation for. Greenville, S. C..
appropriation for. Kalamazoo, Mich .
appropriation for. Knoxville, Tenn .

790, 1297 775
791, 1298 776 791 775 790
776

appropriation for . Lafayette, Ind ..

791, 1299 775

appropriation for. Lancaster, Pa..

790, 1299 775

appropriation for. Nebraska City, Nebr..
appropriation for . Peoria, Ill.

791 , 1299 775 790 775

appropriation for.

790

Roanoke, Va..

776

appropriation for. Rockford, Ill ..

791, 1303 775

appropriation ior. San Francisco, Cal. , subtreasury.
appropriation for.. South Bend, Ind ..

790, 1303 775 790 775

appropriation for. rent .

790, 1304 1304

Springfield, Mass .

775

appropriation for.. Springfield, Ohio...

790, 1304 775

appropriation for..

791, 1304

authority to secure by purchase, condem-

nation , etc...

776

changes, etc. , included in limits of costs.. 776

3566

INDEX .

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Cont'd

Page.

limit of cost increased for site and build-

ing, Saint Louis, Mo ..

776

appropriation for ..

191 , 1303

site for post-office and construction , a `-

thorized at Jefferson Barracks, Mo .. 776

appropriation for.

791

construction authorized of, at Albuquerque,

N. Mex ..

777

appropriation for.

791

Ann Arbor, Mich..

.777

appropriation for. Baker City, Oreg..
appropriation for. Bar Harbor, Me .
appropriation for. Bedford, Ind..

791, 1295 777
791, 1295 777
791 , 1295 776

appropriation for. Bessemer, Ala...
appropriation for. Bluefield, W. Va..
appropriation for.. Calais, Me..
appropriation for. Chippewa Falls, Wis .
appropriation for. Corning, N.Y ...
appropriation for . Crookston , Minn ..
appropriation for. Des Moines, Iowa..

791, 1295 776
791, 1295 777
791, 1295 777
791, 1296 777
792, 1296 777
791, 1297 777
791, 1297 777

appropriation for . Dixon, Ill..
appropriation for. East Liverpool , Ohio .
appropriation for.. Florence, Ala .
appropriation før . Gainesville, Ga..
appropriation for .

791, 1297 776
791 , 1297 777
791, 1297 7.76
791 , 1298 776
791, 1298

Grand Island , Nebr.

777

appropriation for . Hamilton, Ohio ..

791, 1298 777

appropriation for.
Little Rock, Ark .. appropriation for .

791, 1299 776
.... 791, 1300

Marinette, Wis... appropriation for.
Marion , Ind...
appropriation for.
Mason City, Iowa... appropriation for.. for additional land .

777 792, 1301
777 791, 1301
777
· 791 , 1301 .... 1301

Muscatine, Iowa ... appropriation for .
Ocala, Fla. appropriation for.
Pine Bluff, Ark..

777 791, 1301
776 791, 1302
776

appropriation for. Portland, Me..
appropriation for . Portsmouth, Va ..
appropriation for.. Quincy, Mass...
appropriation for . San Juan, P. R..
appropriation for. Sault Sainte Marie, Mich .

791, 1302 777
791, 1302 777
791, 1302 777
791, 1302 777
791, 1303 777

appropriation for.. Toledo, Ohio ....
appropriation for . Tuscaloosa, Ala..

791, 1303 777
791 , 1304 776

appropriation for. Valdosta, Ga..
appropriation for.

791, 1304 776
791, 1304

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Cont'd .

Page.

construction authorized of, at Webster

City, Iowa .

777

appropriation for.

791, 1305

York, Nebr..

777

appropriation for..

791, 1305

construction authorized if cost of site nom-

inal , at Clarinda, Iowa...

778

appropriation for.

792, 1296

Fayetteville , Ark..

778

appropriation for.

792, 1298

Gonzales, Tex ...

778

appropriation for..

792, 1298

Lancaster, Ohio .

778

appropriation for.

792, 1299

Ruston, La...

778

appropriation for.

792, 1303

acquiring site and erection of, authorized

at Albany, Ga...

778

appropriation for. Alexandria, Minn ..

792, 1295 779

appropriation for.

793, 1295

Alpena, Mich..

779

appropriation for.

793, 1295

Alton , Ill..

778

appropriation for.

792, 1295

Americus, Ga......

778

appropriation for . Anderson, S. C.

792, 1295 781

appropriation for .

793, 1295

Auburn, Me... appropriation for.

779 792, 1295

Barre , Vt..

781

appropriation for.

794, 1295

Belleville, Ill ... appropriation for..

778 792, 1295

Belvidere , Ill ... appropriation for..
Boston, Mass ., appraisers' stores . appropriation for.
Boulder, Colo ...

778 792, 1295
779 792, 1296
778

appropriation for..

792, 1296

Bowling Green, Ky.

779

appropriation for..

792, 1296

Bridgeton, N. J. appropriation for .

* 780 793, 1296

Canandaigua, N. Y.

780

appropriation for.

793, 1296

Cape Girardeau, Mo ..

780

appropriation for.

793, 1296

Carlisle, Pa.

780

appropriation for.

793, 1296

Carthage, Mo ...

780

appropriation for. Charleroi, Pa

793, 1296 780

appropriation for. Chester, S. C ....

793, 1296 781

appropriation for. Clifton Forge, Va..

793, 1296 781

appropriation for. Coldwater, Mich ..

794, 1296 779

appropriation for.

793, 1297 .

Columbia, Tenn ...

781

appropriation for .

794, 1297

Columbus, Miss..

779

appropriation for. Corsicana, Tex ..

793, 1297 781

appropriation for . Dalton, Ga

794, 1297 778

appropriation for .

792, 1297

Danville, Ky..

779

appropriation for .

792, 1297

Denison, Tex ...

781

appropriation for .

794, 1297

INDEX.

3567

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act- Cont'd .

Page.

acquiring site and erection of, authorized

at Devils Lake, N. Dak .

780

appropriation for....

793, 1297

Dothan, Ala..

778

appropriation for .

792, 1297

Dover, N. H ..

780

appropriation for.

793, 1297

Eagle Pass, Tex...

781

appropriation for. East Saint Louis, Ill

794, 1297 778

appropriation for. Escanaba, Mich ..

792, 1298 779

appropriation for.
Eugene, Oreg.. appropriation for.
Eureka, Cal ... appropriation for .
Fairmont, W. Va.. appropriation for.

793, 1298 780
793, 1298 778
792, 1298 781
794, 1298

Fayetteville, N. C .. appropriation for.
Fernandina, Fla..

780 793, 1298
778

appropriation for. Fredericksburg, Va.
appropriation for .

792, 1298 781
794, 1298

Gadsden, Ala... appropriation for..

778 792, 1298

Great Falls, Mont

780

appropriation for.. Greenville, Miss..

793, 1298 779

appropriation for. Greenville, Ohio ...

793, 1298 780

appropriation for..

793, 1298

Greenville, S. C. , appropriation for.. 793, 1298

Greenville, Tex.....

781

appropriation for.

794, 1299

Greenwood, S. C.....

781

appropriation for. Gulfport, Miss...

793, 1299 779

appropriation for. Hagerstown, Md ..

793, 1299 779

appropriation for. Hazleton, Pa...

792, 1299 780

appropriation for. Hudson, N. Y

793, 1299 780

appropriation for.

793, 1299

Iola, Kans..

779

appropriation for. Johnson City, Tenn .
appropriation for.. Johnstown, Pa ..

792, 1299 781
794, 1299 780

appropriation for. Kearney, Nebr...

793, 1299 780

appropriation for. Kenosha, Wis ..

793, 1299 781

appropriation for..

794, 1299

Kewanee, Ill ..

778

appropriation for..

792, 1299

Kinston, N. C...

780

appropriation for.

793, 1299

Lake Charles, La..

779

appropriation for..

792, 1299

Lead, S. Dak

.781

appropriation for.

793, 1300

Lebanon, Ky...

779

appropriation for.

792 , 1300

Lincoln, Ill..

778

appropriation for. Logan, Utah..

792, 1300 781

appropriation for. London, Ky .
appropriation for.

794, 1300 779
792, 1300

Manchester, Va..

781

appropriation for.

794, 1300

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Cont'd.

Page.

acquiring site and erection of, authorized

at Manhattan, Kans

779

appropriation for........... Manistee, Mich ..

792, 1300 779

appropriation for. Manitowoc, Wis...
appropriation for. Marietta, Ga..
appropriation for. Marietta, Ohio .....

793, 1300 781
794, 1300 778
792, 1300 780

appropriation for. Marion, Ohio....

793, 1301 780

appropriation for. Mayfield, Ky ....
appropriation for. Meadville, Pa...
appropriation for. Michigan City, Ind .
appropriation for. Milford , Del..

793, 1301 779
792, 1301 780 .
793, 1301 779
792, 1301 778

appropriation for . Mitchell, S. Dak..

792, 1301 781

appropriation for. Moline, Ill..

794, 1301 778

appropriation for. Moscow, Idaho..

792, 1301 778

appropriation for. Murfreesboro, Tenn .
appropriation for . New Britain, Conn.
appropriation for. New Ulm, Minn .
appropriation for. Newark, Ohio ...

792, 1301 781.
794, 1301 778
792, 1301 780
793, 1301 780

appropriation for . Newton, Kans...

793, 1301 779

appropriation for. Niles, Mich...

792, 1301 779

appropriation for. North Adams, Mass..

793, 1301 7779

appropriation for. Olean, N. Y ..

793, 1302 780

appropriation for .
Owensboro, Ky. appropriation for..
Paris, Ill..

793, 1302 779
792, 1302 779

appropriation for. Paris, Ky.
appropriation for. Paris, Tenn..
appropriation for. Pittsburg, Kans...
appropriation for. Pittsfield, Mass .

792, 1302 779
792, 1302 781
794, 1302 779
792, 1302 779

appropriation for. Platteville, Wis.

793, 1302 781

appropriation for.. Provo, Utah..

794, 1302 781

appropriation for . Rawlins, Wyo ...

794, 1302 781

appropriation for. Red Wing, Minn ..
appropriation for..

794, 1302 780
793, 1302

Saint Charles, Mo ..

780

appropriation for.

793, 1303

Salisbury, N. C ... appropriation for.

780 793, 1303

San Angelo, Tex.. appropriation for .

781 794, 1303

San Diego, Cal.......

778

appropriation for.

792, 1303

Santa Rosa, Cal..

778

appropriation for.

792, 1303

3568

INDEX .

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act- Cont'd .

Page.

acquiring site and erection of, authorized at

Schenectady, N. Y ...

780

appropriation for..

793, 1304

Sharon, Pa..

780

appropriation for. Sheridan, Wyo...
appropriation for. Sumter, S. C...

793, 1304 781
794, 1304 781

appropriation for. Texarkana, Tex...

793, 1304 781

appropriation for. Trinidad, Colo....

794, 1304 778

appropriation for... Versailles, Ky..
appropriation for. Washington, N. C ..

792, 1304 779
792, 1304 780

appropriation for.

793, 1304

Watertown, S. Dak .

781

appropriation for. Waukegan, Ill...
appropriation for. Willimantic, Conn ..
appropriation for. Winchester, Ky..
appropriation for.

794, 1305 779
792, 1305 778
792, 1305 779
792, 1305

Winchester, Va...

781

appropriation for. Woonsocket, R. I.

794, 1305 781

appropriation for.
Yazoo City, Miss . appropriation for.

793, 1305 770
793, 1305

Yonkers, N. Y ...

780

appropriation for. restrictions as to sites..

793, 1305 781

acquiring site for, authorized at Aiken,

S. C...

784

appropriation for.

795

Amsterdam, N. Y.

783

appropriation for.

795

Appleton, Wis...

784

appropriation for.

796

Ashtabula, Ohio.......

783

appropriation for.

795

Austin, Minn ...

783

appropriation for.

795, 1295

Bellingham , Wash .

784

appropriation for .

796

Beloit, Wis...

784

appropriation for.

796

Beverly, Mass ..

782

appropriation for .

795

Bloomington, Ind .

782

appropriation for.

794

Bradford, Pa..

783

appropriation for.

795

Brainerd, Minn..

783

appropriation for.

795

Carbondale, Pa...

783

appropriation for.

795

Carrollton, Mo...

783

appropriation for.

795

Catlettsburg, Ky..

782

appropriation for

795

Centralía, Ill .

782

appropriation for.

794

Chambersburg, Pa

783

appropriation for.

795

Cleveland, Tenn ..

784

appropriation for .

795

Clinton, Mo..

783

appropriation for.

795

Columbus, Ind ..

782

appropriation for .

794

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Cont'd.
acquiring site for, authorized at Columbus, Nebr ..
appropriation for. Concord, N. C.
appropriation for. Connellsville, Pa..
appropriation for.. Connersville, Ind .
appropriation for. Davenport, Iowa..
appropriation for. Decorah, Iowa....
appropriation for.. Delaware, Ohio..
appropriation for.. Demopolis , Ala ..
appropriation for.. Denver, Colo. , post-office .
appropriation for.. Easton, Pa...
appropriation for. Estherville, Iowa..
appropriation for. Grafton, W. Va...
appropriation for.. Greencastle, Ind ..
appropriation for. Greensburg, Pa..
appropriation for.. Greenwich, Conn..
appropriation for.. Griffin, Ga...
appropriation for.. Hattiesburg, Miss ...
appropriation for.. Henderson, N. C ..
appropriation for.. Highpoint, N. C ....
appropriation for.. Hinton, W. Va...
appropriation for.. Honolulu, Hawaii.
appropriation for.. Independence, Mo ..
appropriation for. Jeffersonville , Ind .
appropriation for.. Jersey City, N. J..
appropriation for. Johnstown, N. Y..
appropriation for. Keene , N. H..
appropriation for.. Kokomo, Ind...
appropriation for.. Lewiston, Idaho..
appropriation for.. Lexington, Mo ..
appropriation for.. Litchfield , Ill...
appropriation for.. Lander, Wyo..
appropriation for. Macon, Mo ....
appropriation for .. Malone, N. Y.
appropriation for . Marlboro, Mass...
appropriation for.. Middletown, N. Y.
appropriation for. Minneapolis, Minn.
appropriation for.

Page.
783 795 783 795 784 795 782 794 782 794 782 794 783 795 782 794 782 794 784 795 782 794 784 796 782 794 784 795 782 794 782 794 783 795 783 795 783 795 784 796 782 794 783 795 782 794 783 795 783 795 783 795 782 794 782 794 783 795 782 794 784 796 783 795 783 795 782 795 783 795 783 795

INDEX.

3569

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Cont'd .

Page:

acquiring site for, authorized at Missoula, Mont..
appropriation for. New London, Conn ..
appropriation for . North Tonawanda, N. Y.
appropriation for. North Yakima, Wash .
appropriation for. Newnan, Ga...
appropriation for. Palestine, Tex..
appropriation for. Peru, Ind ..
appropriation for. Pittsburg, Pa..
appropriation.for. Plattsmouth, Nebr ..
appropriation for. Plymouth, Mass
appropriation for . Pontiac, Mich...
appropriation for . Punxsutawney, Pa.
appropriation for . Rochester, Minn ..
appropriation for. San Marcos, Tex ..
appropriation for. Santa Cruz, Cal..
appropriation for . Sewickley, Pa ...
appropriation for.
Shamokin, Pa... appropriation for .
Shenandoah, Iowa.. appropriation for.
South Chicago, Ill . appropriation for .
Syracuse, N. Y .. appropriation for.
Temple, Tex .. appropriation for .
Troy, Ala. appropriation for .
Warrensburg, Mo ... appropriation for.
Watertown, Wis... appropriation for .
Waukesha, Wis. appropriation for.
Waycross, Ga.. appropriation for .
Webster, Mass .. appropriation for .
West Point, Miss .. appropriation for .
Woburn, Mass .. appropriation for.
York, Pa.. appropriation for .

783 795 782
794 783 795 784 796 782 794 784 796 782 794 784 795 783 795 782 795 783 795 784 795 783 795 784 796 782 794 784 795 784 795 782 794 782 794 783 795 784 796 782 794 783 795 784 796 784 796 782 794 782 .795 783 795 783 795 784 795

size to be sufficient for accommodation of

offices, etc .....

784

sale of old mint, Denver, Colo .; proceeds

for new building..

784

limit of cost increased, Denver, Colo . ,

mint.....

784

sale of old building, Los Angeles ; pro-

ceeds for new building..

785

sale of site

1238

limit of cost increased, Los Angeles , Cal ... 785

appropriation for .

1300

Public Buildings, Omnibus Act-Cont'd.

Page.

at Watertown, N. Y. , to be taken down,

and new one erected on site ; use of

materials..

785

appropriation for..

796, 1305

reconstruction and enlarging authorized

of, Richmond, Va..

785

appropriation for..

796, 1303

rent ..

1303

disposal of, Grand Rapids, Mich. , and

erection of new one on site..

785

appropriation for... rent ...

796, 1298 1298

construction of new building, New Orleans,

La.; cost..

786

appropriation for.

796, 1301

construction of new, Atlanta ; cost .

786

appropriation for..

796, 1295

disposal of old building on completion of

new one ....

786

commission to investigate postal situation,

New York..

786

continued .

1231

appropriation for expenses...

786

sale of portion of site of, Marblehead, Mass . 786

purchase of site, authorized , at Oklahoma

City, Okla.; former appropriation

available..

787

appropriation for..

796

construction of, authorized, at Houston,

Tex.; cost...

787

appropriation for..

796, 1299

contracts authorized ; sale of present

building on completion of new one . 787

sales of certain lands in Washington, D. C.,

to Sidney Bieber, authorized ..

787

condemnation of certain triangles for reser-

vations in District of Columbia, au-

thorized ...

787

permission granted for monument by volunteer firemen, Washington , D. C... 788
offers for sites to be presented in writing.. 788

rent of buildings standing; exposure to

streets ....

788

commission on additions to Rock Creek

Park, D. C ......

788

proposals to be invited ; examinations, etc. 788

exposure for protection from fire..

789

quarters for all branches of Government

service to be provided in buildings

under...

1236

changes, etc., to be within limit of cost .. 1236

Clarinda, Iowa, allowance for site ...

1236

Lancaster, Ohio, purchase of site author-

ized ..

1236

Ocala, Fla., enlargement of site..

12.'6

Owosso, Mich. , enlargement of site .

1236

Washington Parish, D. C. , property restric-

tions repealed....

1236

Perry, Okla. , acceptance of post-office

building and site...

1237

Des Moines, Iowa, acceptance of land.

1239

Mason City, Iowa, additional land .

1237

Reno, Nev., cession of strip of land .

1237

Cedar Rapids, Iowa, sale of former build-

ing..

1237

Washington, D. C. , sale of land on Anacos-

tía River..

1237

Duluth, Minn. , extension of present build-

ing, etc.....

1238

Public Buildings , Omnibus Bill, 1906, conference committee on deficiency appropriation bill authorized to insert

appropriations to carry out ........ 2834

3570

INDEX.

Public Buildings and Grounds, D. C. ,

Page.

appropriation for additional pay, officer in

charge

245, 1163

for assistant engineer, clerks, etc

421, 967

for foremen, gardeners, etc. for watchmen ..

421, 967 421 , 967

for watchman, Washington's birth-

place .....

422, 967

for contingent expenses..

422, 968

amount from District revenues .

422, 968

for improvement and care of grounds . 733, 1341

for propagating gardens . for Potomac Park..

733, 1341 733, 1341

half from District revenues .

734, 1342

maximum, concrete, etc. , pave-

ments ..

734, 1342

for grounds of Executive Depart-

ments....

734, 1342

for trees, etc. , Library and Capitol

grounds...

734, 1342

for Executive Mansion grounds .

734, 1342

for employing engineer.. for steam roller....

734, 1342 734

for repairs, etc. , Executive Mansion . 734, 1342

for fuel, Executive Mansion...

734, 1342

for greenhouses, etc for lighting; maximum ..
part from District revenues.

734, 1342 734, 1342 734, 1343

for electric lights...

735, 1343

Potomac Park..

735, 1343

for Washington Monument for Lincoln's death place..

735, 1343 735, 1343

for Washington's birthplace .

1344

for Grant memorial ..

735

for McClellan statue.

736

Public Convenience Stations, D. C.,

appropriation for ; reappropriation..

495

for maintenance...

1132

Public Domain (see Public Lands).

Public Health and Marine- Hospital Service

(see also Quarantine, National),

appropriation for Surgeon-General, clerks,

etc..

409, 956

for medical officers and pharmacists.. 708, 1316

for officers and employees..

708, 1316

for freight, transportation , etc ..

708, 1316

for fuel, lights, and water.

708, 1316

for furniture, etc..

708, 1316

for supplies; depot .. for Hygienic Laboratory. for maintenance of hospitals, etc ...

708, 1316 709, 1316 709, 1316

for outside treatment, etc ..

709, 1316

for books, etc ....

709, 1316

for quarantine service..
for prevention of epidemics . for leprosy hospital ..

709, 1316 709. 1316
709

deficiency appropriation for R. H. von

Ezdorf and H. P. Huddleson...

1375

for transfer of appropriations.

1375

custody, etc., of Dry Tortugas for quaian-

tine station given to..

299

examination of alien immigrants by med-

ical officers of; expenses ..

903

Public Lands,

appropriation for surveyors-general . for registers and receivers.

434, 979 723, 1332

for contingent expenses..

723, 1332

for depositing moneys .

724, 1332

for expenses, timber depredations ... 724, 1332

for protecting, from fraudulent entry . 724, 1332

for swamp-land claims, etc.

724, 1332

for hearings in land entries .

724, 1332

for reproducing plats of surveys

724, 1332

for examinations of desert lands .

724, 1332

Public Lands- Continued .

Page.

appropriation for restoring lands in forest

reserves .

724, 1333

for transcripts from records.

724, 1333

for opening Indian reservations. for surveying...

1333 725, 1333

for reimbursement to Utah.

726

for survey of certain, in Louisiana..

726

deficiency appropriation for surveyor-gen-

eral, Nevada ...

37

for surveyor-general , Alaska.

47, 654

for contingent expenses . for surveying..

47, 1388, 1402 47, 667, 1402, 1403

for private land claims..

47

for surveyor-general , Montana .

654

for surveyor-general, New Mexico .

654

for protecting, etc ..

666

for receivers ...

667, 1402

for depositing public moneys .

885

for hearings in entries...

886

for Orville H. Southmayd .

1388

Alabama, to be reclassified ; homesteads ...

appropriation for expenses...

88

agricultural lands in forest reserves, may

be opened to homestead entries..... 233

Battle Mountain Sanitarium Reserve, es-

tablished ....

83

Billings land district, Mont. , established .. 11

cemetery grant to Keystone Camp, Modern

Woodsmen, S. Dak..

128

Scandinavian Lutheran, etc., congrega-

tion, Butte County, S. Dak...

122

certain entries, etc., on lands of ceded Fort

Berthold Indian Reservation, N.

Dak., validated ..

894

Chamberlain, S. Dak., district , certain

final proofs in Stanley County ac-

cepted..

121

containing antiquities to be reserved, etc. 225

conveyance to Lyman Ballou, Buffalo Gap,

S. Dak...

891

credit for time , etc. , to homesteaders dis-

possessed from St. Paul, Minneapolis

and Manitoba Railway grants ..

120

to make new entry in two years..

121

persons not entitled ...

121

cutting, etc., trees on, for pitch, etc. , pro-

hibited; punishment ..

208

desert-land selection in Montana by Charles

T. Rader, authorized ..

2309

entries, etc., on former Columbia Indian

Reservation, Wash. , before withdrawal for irrigation projects, confirmed ...
ceded Shoshone lands to be made at
Shoshoni, Wyo ... ceded Yakima Indian Reservation,

934 . 3222

Wash., confirmed...

1420

entry of certain, authorized by Mancos,

Colo ...

459

exchange of certain lands by Wyoming

authorized...

1055

five per cent of proceeds of sales granted to California for common schools .... 518

fruit and garden farm provisions under reclamation act..
Glasgow, Mont. , land district created . grant to Albuquerque , N. Mex., for park..
Arizona, for common schools.. for universities, additional .
Biloxi, Miss. , for park, etc .. Boulder, Colo. , for water supply. Canon City, Colo. , for park, containing
the Royal Gorge....

519 929 227 280 282 149 1223
238

INDEX.

3571

Public Lands Continued. grant to Clay, heirs of James W.

Page. 2823

Colorado, of desert lands in former Southern Ute Reservation ; payment... 1056
Colorado State Agricultural College.. 1246

Durango, Colo., for water supply ; price . 1053

Episcopal Church in Utah, from former

Uintah Reservation..

611

Minnesota for consumptive sanitarium. 195

flowage rights reserved..

195

Nez Perces County, Idaho, school dis-

trict No. 57 ..

549

Oklahoma for common schools ..

272

for universities, etc ...

273, 932

indemnity...

274

University Preparatory School ; sale,

etc ....

623

Tincup, Colo., cemetery...

796

Wisconsin for forest reserve ; reversion .. 517

sale of agricultural lands, proceeds for

reforestation .....

518

homestead allotments to Alaska natives ... 197

entries allowed on certain lands in Yel-

lowstone Forest Reserve .....

62

entry of Larvan Gordon confirmed ..

2817

laws extended to abandoned Fort Rice Military Reservation, N. Dak ...... 808

homesteaders allowed temporary leaves of

absence in certain States...

1419

granted extension of time to establish

residence, etc. , in certain States .... 1421

in Alabama given lands for entries can-

celed by railroad grants ....

1408

to be repaid excess of lawful purchase

money ..

1248

to make cash entry payments only after

approval..

1245

hunting, etc., birds and eggs, in game pre-

serves unlawful ; penalty...

536

not applicable to Black Hills Forest Re-

servation, S. Dak.....

537

irrigable lands Yakima Reservation ,Wash. , open to entry under reclamation act . 53

isolated tracts to be sold at public auction;

vested rights reserved ..

517

888

La Plata County, Colo . , leased to P. F. U. Rubber Company...

lands excluded from Baker City Forest

Reserve, Oreg., open to entry..

3195

Battlement Mesa Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

open to entry .

3078

Big Belt Forest Reserve , Mont. , open to

entry .

3283

Bitter Root Forest Reserve , Mont. , open

to entry...

3049

Grand Canyon Forest Reserve, Ariz. ,

open to settlement ..

3223

Little Belt Forest Reserve, Mont. , open

to entry ..

3277

Madison Forest Reserve, Ariz. , open to

entry ..

2997

Lincoln Forest Reserve, N. Mex. , open

to entry ...

3177

Park Range Forest Reserve, Colo. , open

to entry..

3285

Uinta Forest Reserve, Utah and Wyo. ,

open to entry ..

3208

Washington Forest Reserve , Wash . , open

to entry.

3096, 3297

Weiser Forest Reverse, Idaho, open to

entry

3294

Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyo. ,

Wash., and Idaho, open to entry ... 3291

Public Lands-Continued.

Page.

laws extended to abandoned Fort Critten-

den Military Reservation, Utah ... 808 Fort Shaw Military Reservation, Mont.. 228
reservations for Indian school and irri-

gation...

229

Shoshone and Arapaho lands in

Wyoming....

78

lease of, to Montana College of Agriculture,

etc., for dry land farming experi-

ments .

552 .

lots in Uintah Indian Grazing Reserve,

Utah, restored to public domain . 3228

Louisiana, confirmation of titles to lands

within private land claim of Isaac

Crow...

896

unsurveyed, to be surveyed ....

199

Mesa Verde National Park, Colo. , created .. 616

Montana may exchange certain school in-

demnity for other...

150

National monument set aside, Devils

Tower, Wyo...

3236

El Morro, N. Mex.

3264

Montezuma Castle, Ariz

3265

Petrified Forest, Ariz .

· 3266

Nebraska arid land provisions extended ... 1224 Nome and Fairbanks districts, · Alaska,

created ..

1232

officers, fees, surveys, etc ..

1232

North Dakota, lands exchanged for State

Historical Society..

1241

opening diminished Colville Reservation, Wash. , to settlement, directed ......
Rosebud Reservation, S. Dak., opened to
entry patent issued to Anna Johnson,
Frank J. Ladner .. Martha Sanders .

80
1230 2818 2824 2822

proclamation opening to entry ceded por-

tion of Crow Indian Reservation,

Mont ....

3200

Shoshone or Wind River Reservation,

Wyo ..

3208

Uintah Indian Reservation, Utah.

3119

modifying provisions for drawings... 3140

reserving agricultural and reservoir

lands for Indians

* 3141

reservoir site diminished . town sites reserved ..

3143 3139

additional..

3143

Walker River Indian Reservation, Nev . 3237

proclamation opening to homestead entry

certain Indian pasture and wood re-

serves in Oklahoma ....

3213

reappraisement of suburban lots, Port An- .

geles, Wash. , town site ...

.167

receivers to deposit unearned fees and un-

official money in Treasury after five

years ....

1245

payment to parties entitled ; time limit! 1245

receivers refunded for expenses of hearings and depositing paid out of private funds ...
limitation .... reservoir lands in Minnesota restored to
homestead entry..
resurvey of certain townships, Arizona .. Baca County, Colo .. in Colorado .. in Nebraska

1245 1245 ·
195 726 459 868 518

right of settlers on Northern Pacific Rail-

road lands to make other selections

extended .....

197

3572

INDEX.

Public Lands-Continued .

Page.

right of way to Los Angeles, through certain, in California..
sales of lands authorized .
granted over, in Colorado .. rights of way through, forfeited by railroads
failing to construct in five years .... sale to Buffalo, Wyo. , for park, etc ..
Johnson County, Wyo. , for poor farm, authorized..
Mena, Ark..
Minnesota, of tract in Dakota County. Rock Sink, Fla. , Missionary Baptist
Church..

801 802 1227
482 930
186 518 78
634

sales for cemetery purposes authorized ;

limit, etc..

1052

San Diego County, Cal. , time for making

settlement, etc. , extended ..

1052

sections reserved for Mission Indians, Cal.,

restored to public domain .:

3037

selections by North Dakota in lieu of

erroneous entries in school lands ... 1218

by owners, etc. , of lands relinquished

within Red Rock Lakes Reservoir

site, Mont .

151

reconveyed lands restored to public domain...
soldiers ' additional homestead rights as signed to M. J. Wine, validated...
subdivisions and sale of certain, in Washington....
survey of certain townships in Montana... -time extended for establishing residence on
ceded lands of Crow Indian Reservation, Mont... Shoshone Indian Reservation, Wyo .....
Uinta ceded lands, Utah... final proofs desert land entries in Benton
County, Wash.

151 49 229 726
843 849
9
* 1057

opening Shoshone Indian Reservation,

Wyo....

825

town sites reserved under irrigation proj-

ects ...

116

tract for buffalo pasture, to be leased in

Stanley County, S. Dak...

61

Umatilla Reservation, Oreg. , grazing lands

may be patented to purchasers..

611

unallotted lands Blackfeet Indian Reserva-

tion opened to settlement....

1037

Williston, N. Dak., land district created .. 148

Wyoming may exchange certain grants of.. 92

lands reconveyed restored to public do-

main .

93

Public Library, D. C. , Free, appropriation for salaries..

487, 1124

for Sunday and holiday opening..... 488, 1124

for books, fuel, etc ....

488, 1124

deficiency appropriation for contingent ex-

penses ...

640

Public Printer,

appropriation for, clerks .

397

for, deputy, clerks, etc

943

deputy, qualification and duties.

943

to submit estimates for all clerks, etc.... 397

Public Printing and Binding,

appropriation for Public Printer, clerks ... 396

for Public Printer, deputy, clerks, etc

943

deputy, appointment, qualifications,

and duties ...

943

estimates for clerks, etc. , to be sub-

mitted .....

397

for superintendent of documents, etc ... 943

for foremen of divisions; superintendent

of supplies......

943

Public Printing and Binding Continued . Page.

appropriation for captain of the watch, etc. 943

estimates for clerks, etc.; limitation on

use of funds ...

943

for opinions of Assistant Attorneys-Gen-

eral, Post-Office Department ..

1205

for expenses of.

759, 1366

for Congress.

759, 1366

recommendation from printing com-

mittee...

760, 1366

for Departments, etc division of allotments ..

760, 1366 761 , 1368

for leaves to employees...

761, 1368

estimates, etc. , for pneumatic tube

service to Capitol , etc ..

1368

iron bridges connecting upper floors 1368

deficiency appropriation for...... for leaves to employees..

48, 665, 1405 44, 120, 1398

transfer of appropriation.. for advertising sale of documents..

44, 1398 1398

for night messengers at Congress..... 663, 1398.

for Hydrographic Office....

1398

for Court of Claims ..

1398

for Bureau of American Republics .

1398

authority to print proceedings of unveiling Rochambeau statue, continued ..... 2830

ordered; annual report 1905, beet sugar in-

dustry; future reports.....

839

Charters and Constitutions, new edition. 759

compilation of river and harbor improve-

ments laws ...

1119

Comptroller of the Currency Report;

number increased .:

1425

Diseases of Horses, Report......

1425

eulogy on Representative John W. Cran-

ford ...

.826

extra copies, Digest of Customs Laws and

Decisions ..

840

hearings on railroad rates bill

2830

Fourth Annual Report, Reclamation Service....
hazing at Naval Academy, hearings . Hinds' Parliamentary Precedents index to reports of Commission to Five
Civilized Tribes . John Paul Jones exercises, Annapolis,
Md ..

836 2831 1365
2833
2834

Laws and Statutes for Department of

Justice ..

1426

Panama Canal message.

1418

Precious Metals Statistics 1905

1425

preliminary examinations under river

and harbor act, 1905

839

report of Director of the Mint, 1906 ... 1424

report on efficiency of coals used by

United States ships ..

2831

Japanese naval medical features of

Russo-Japanese war..

2831

Postal Commission..

2838

Treasurer, 1905 ..

2837

second-class mail matter document

1426

testimony, grain elevators, etc., investi-

gations

2837

estimates for all, to be submitted in annual

estimates of Departments...

762

no other fund to be used after fiscal year

1907 ....

762

cost of composition , illustrations, etc., of

documents to be charged to Depart-

ment, etc., preparing...

825

printing, binding, etc. , to be charged to

allotments in proportion to copies

delivered ..

825

documents otherwise distributed

825

INDEX .

3573

Public Printing and Binding-Continued: annual estimate to be made of probable cost of regular publications....... allotment to be set aside solely for such purpose; use of balance..
in effect July 1 , 1906 .

Page.
825 826 826

documents for Congress may be printed in

two or more editions; maxímum ..

826

for Departments, etc. , may be supplied

intwo or more editions; maximum.. 826

full quota authorized if required

826

Joint Commission to examine, continued. 762

to report on abolition of branch printing

offices in Departments, etc ..

762

expenses of superintendent of documents to

be specifically appropriated for .... 1014

postponed one year; estimates, etc., to

be made.

1399

copies of publications to designated depositories, State and Territorial libra-

ries; allotment..

1014

land-grant colleges constituted deposi-

tories

1014

orders to print to lapse after two years; sub-

sequent editions limited ..

1014

repeal provisions ..

1015

Joint Committee on Printing to remedy

delays, etc...

1012

reprinting of documents for Congress ; re-

striction .....

1012

printing for committees limited .

1012

printing of extra copies ; estimates required 1013

not applicable to Horse and Cattle Dis-

eases reports ..

1013

"extra copies " construed .

1013

estimates to accompany orders to print

documents ..

1013

reports from Departments to Congress;

exception...

1013

documents to be paid for from Congress

allotment ...

1013

stationery, forms, etc. , for Congress, com-

mittees, etc., to be furnished by

Public Printer...

1013

binding for Senators and Representatives .. 1013

publications of Congress classified as Re-

ports and Documents; numbering.. 1013 designation of Departmental reports, etc.. 1014

bindingof numbered documents and reports

of general public character...

1014

not of general public character; distribu-

tion ...

1014

documents to be sent to library of Philip-

pine government ..

850

Public Property, etc.,

money arising from proceeds of, to be re-

ported annually..

763

Public Roads, Director of,

appropriation for improving roads in De-

partment grounds .

681

Public Roads Office, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries .

694, 1279

for expenses of inquiries, etc.

694, 1280

Public Schools , D. C. (see also Education of

Children) ,

appropriation for officers ..

498, 1135

board of education to serve without

compensation ..

498

for teachers ..

498, 1135

filling vacancies .

500

division of salaries prohibited .

500, 1138

unused balances available; restriction . 1138

teachers not to be used as clerks or

librarians

1138

Public Schools, D. C. -Continued.

Page.

appropriation for night schools and kinder-

gartens . for janitors and care of buildings .

500, 1139 500, 1139

for engineers , technical schools .

501, 1139

for medical inspectors ..
for rent, repairs, etc .. for plumbing repairs; estimates for manual training expenses.. for fuel, light, and power. for furniture, new buildings . for contingent expenses..

501 , 1140 501 , 1140 501 , 1140 501 , 1140 501, 1141 501 , 1141 502, 1141

service as cadets required ; exception . 1141

for free lectures .

502

for pianos...

502, 1141

for text-books, etc. , flags; playgrounds ;

telephones ..

502, 1141

for school gardens .

1141

for commission on consolidation of school,

etc ..

1141

for buildings, sites, etc

502, 1142

limit of cost; plans, etc ..

1142

for extending manual training school .

502

for site for future normal, etc. , schools .. 502

for additional to McCormick

502

for Brightwood Park..

503

for Deanwood ..

503

deficiency appropriation for fuel .

31

for janitors....

31

for contingent expenses..

641

for furniture, etc. , manual training school 641

for adjusting accounts of teachers ..

1377

general regulations of salaries, etc ..

316

scholars above second grade to have

whole day sessions .

316

board of education to control ; appoint-

ment; to serve without pay.

316

meetings ; secretary...

316

appointments, etc. , subject to recom-

mendation of superintendent..

317

general duties; estimates ..

317

appointment of superintendent ; term,

duties, etc....

317

assistant superintendent for white

schools: duties...

317

assistant superintendent for colored

schools; duties..

317

director of intermediate instruction;

duties ..

317

supervision of manual training

317

salaries classified ...

318

allotment to grades, etc ..

318

classification of high and technical schools . 319

teachers to be arranged in classes and

groups.

319

appointment and promotion..

319

annual increase in salaries

320

principals: pay, authority, etc.

320

directors' salaries ..

320

pay of officers, superintendent , assistants ,

etc....

321

teachers on trial, etc. , entitled to presence

of counsel and a friend .

321

commission to report plan for consolidating

schools, etc ..

321

free tuition if pupils or parents are taxpayers 113

Publications Division, Department of Agricul ture,

appropriation for salaries.. for general expenses.

689, 1275 690, 1275

farmers' bulletins: distribution of .

690

for distribution etc

690

for assistant editors, artists, etc ..

690

VOL XXXIV, PT 3--62

3574

INDEX .

Publications, Government (see Documents, Page. Public).

Puckett, Benjamin J.,

pension increased .

2589

Pueblo Indians, N. Mex.,

appropriation for special attorney ...... 359, 1041

Puerto Cabello, Venezuela,

classification and salary of consul .....

100

Puerto Cortez, Honduras,

classification and salary of consul ......... 100 Puerto Plata, Santo Domingo,
classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Puget Sound Navy- Yard, Wash. ,

appropriation for public works ; stone dry

dock ..

566, 1188

for public works, naval magazine..

1190

for naval hospital, construction..

1191

for marine barracks ..

1191

Puget Sound, Wash. , appropriation for lighting

713, 1320

for improvement of waterway connect-

ing Lakes Union and Washington ... 1108

survey for lock canal..

1108

forimprovement of, and tributary waters. 1109

construction of revenue cutter for duty in,

authorized ..

1010

appropriation for.

1309

ship canal from Lake Washington to,

authorized ...

231

modification allowed .

1108

preliminary examination to be made for

ship canal to Grays Harbor..

1118

Pugsley, Frank,

pension increased .

1920

Pulsifer, Pitman,

deficiency appropriation for preparing

Navy Yearbook....

1395

Pulsifer, Woodbury,

deficiency appropriation for extra services . 1396

Pultneyville, N. Y.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor... 1078

Pungoteague Creek, Va.,

light station directed at..

322

appropriation for......

711

Punxsutawney, Pa., acquiring site for public building at, authorized .. appropriation for .
Purcell, Robert, pension increased .

784 795"
1516

Purchasing Agent, Post-Office Department,

appropriation for, clerks, etc ..

437, 982

Purdy, George E. ,.

pension increased .

2733

Pure Food Act,

manufacture of adulterated or misbranded

food or drugs in Territories or Dis-

trict of Columbia unlawful....

768

penalty ....

768

introduction or shipment of adulterated or

misbranded food or drugs prohibited ;

punishment ....

768

uniform regulations ; collection of speci-

mens .

768

chemical examinations; hearings, etc

769

certificate of violations..

769

prosecutions for violations..

769

definition of "drug " and " food

769

adulterations of drugs ..

769

of confectionery..

770

of food .....

770

definition of " misbranded ".

770

misbranded drugs..

770

failure to state narcotics, etc. , used ... 770

Pure Food Act-Continued . misbranded food .... failure to state narcotics, etc. , used ... exceptions; articles under distinctive names, not deceptive, etc .. blends, etc., so stated .. meaning of blend ..
proprietary foods provision . protection of guaranty from manufacturer ;
requirements ... seizure ofunlawful articles in transit,etc ...
disposal of condemned articles .. return to owner if not to be sold, etc.;
bond required ........
condemnation proceedings; jury trials allowed ..
examination of imported foods and drugs . admission denied adulterated, mis-
branded, or unwholesome goods .... destruction or exportation of articles con-
demned ...

Page. 770 770
771 771 771 771
771 771 771
771
771 772 .
772
772

delivery to consignee pending examina-

tion of samples; bond .

772

charges, etc. , on goods condemned

772

insular possessions included ...

772

corporations liable for acts of officers,

agents, etc ...

772

in effect January 1, 1907 ..

772

appropriation for expenses, carrying into

effect ..

1272

deficiency appropriation for expenses

under..

841

Pure Food Law,

appropriation for investigation ofadultera-

tions, etc.

685

Purkapile, John, military record corrected .
Purvis, George W., pension increased .
Pusey, James E., pension increased .

2063 1490 2752

Putnam, William W.,

pension increased .

2453

Puyallup Agency, Wash.,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

at ..

377, 1050

Puyallup Indian School , Wash. ,

sale of lands; proceeds for industrial, etc. ,

school..

377

Puyallup River, Wash., preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1118

Pyramid Lake Indian Reservation, Nev .,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

on ..

358, 1040

Q.

Quapaw Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 344, 1028

Quarantine Districts for Live Stock, appropriation for establishing....

673, 1259

Quarantine, National,

control of all stations, etc. , given to Secre-

tary of Treasury..

299

stations on the coast to prevent introduc-

tion of yellowfever..

299

detention grounds, etc. , at Dry Tortu-

gas, etc., for disinfection ....

299

title of land to be transferred from other

department

299

to be secured from owner.

299

condemnation proceedings .

300

notice of establishment of station , rules,

etc ..

300

INDEX.

3575

Quarantine, National-Continued .

Page.

notice requirements for vessels with yel-

low fever

300

hospitals, disinfecting plants, etc..

300

unauthorized entry to , or departure from,

station a misdemeanor .

300

punishment ..

300

punishment of master or owners of vessels

violating quarantine laws and regu-

lations....

300

purchase of State or local stations .

301

cession of jurisdiction ...

301

appropriation for expenses..

301

Quarantine Service (see also Public Health

and Marine-Hospital Service),

appropriation for.........

409, 956

for expenses...........

709, 1316

emergency printing

709, 1316

for Biscayne Bay, launch .

701

for Portland , Me. , House Island .

701, 1307

for Boca Grande ...

701, 1307

for San Francisco ..

701

for Savannah, Ga..

1307

for San Diego..

1307

for Delaware Breakwater.

1307

for Santa Rosa..

1307

for Ship Island .

1307

deficiency appropriation for .

45

for Honolulu, Hawaii ; change of allot-

ment .

29

for reclamation of Quarantine Island ,

Honolulu ...

29

right of way granted through, in Washing-

ton....

926

Quarantine Stationsfor Neat Cattle, etc. , appropriation for maintaining, etc ........ 673, 1259

Quartermaster-General's Office, War Depart-

ment,

appropriation for clerks, etc..

419, 967

for employees, paid from Army appro-

priations.

419

for rent, depot ....

421 , 967

Quartermaster's Department, Army,

appropriation for quartermaster-sergeants ;

longevity...

242, 1160

for pay ofofficers; longevity .

244, 1162

for regular supplies...

250, 1166

ice machines, laundries, etc.

250, 1166

post bakeries, schools, etc .. forage, stationery, etc.
printing... fuel to commissioned officers ; rate

250, 1166 250, 1166 250, 1166
250

heat and light for quarters. printing contracts .

1167 250, 1167

use of ice machines, etc. , for outside

work .....

251, 1167

for equipping officers ' post schools ... 251 , 1167

for incidental expenses

251, 1671

extra-duty pay, etc.. restriction at West Point.

251, 1167 1167

interments, furniture, etc. for care, etc., of horses..

251, 1167 252, 1168

for purchase of horses; limit, etc. for barracks and quarters..

252, 1168 252, 1168

commutation restriction

1168

assignment of rooms to officers ; com-

mutation

1168

limit to civilian employees..

252, 1169

purchase of land, Fort Sam Houston

and San Antonio , Tex ..

252

additional land, Fort Taylor, Fla.. 1169

use of embankment, etc. , Key West

Barracks ....

1169

Quartermaster's Department , Army-Cont'd . Page.

appropriation for post exchanges, etc .. 253 , 1169

hospital, Presidio of San Francisco,

Cal ....

253

for transportation . division of estimates..

253, 1169 1169

transport service ; sales restricted .. 253, 1170

due land - grant roads not bond

aided ...

253, 1170

rates ; conditions .

253, 1170

limit of draft animals .

254, 1170

restrictions on use of transports . 254, 1170

for roads, etc. , Alaska ..

254, 1171

for shelter, etc., Army in the Philip-

pines..

254, 1171

for clothing, and camp and garrison

equipage

254, 1171

for post hospitals; Hot Springs, Ark . 254, 1171

Fort D. A. Russell, Wyo. , Columbus Barracks, Ohio, and Jefferson Bar-

racks , Mo ..

255

for hospital stewards' quarters .

255, 1172

for shooting ranges, etc.

255, 1172

for Army War College .

255, 1172

for headstones for soldiers ' graves .... 740, 1346

for additional supplies, relief of earth-

quake sufferers ....

827

for further relief; extra expenses...

828

for extra-duty pay enlisted men , at West

Point....

1064

deficiency appropriation for regular sup-

plies ...... 33, 46, 645, 666, 1381 , 1401 , 1404

for incidental expenses...

46 ,

645, 666, 668, 1382, 1401, 1404

for transportation ..

46,

646, 666, 668, 1382, 1401 , 1404

for clothing, and camp and garrison

equipage

46, 646, 666, 1401

for barracks and quarters..

46,666, 1401

for headstones for soldiers' graves ..

46,

666, 1380, 1401 , 1404

for hospitals .....

646

for reimbursing, stores furnished Marine

Corps in China...

649

for horses...

1382

officer to be designated on commission on

commercial use of surplus waters of

the Mississippi in Minnesota..

457

Quarters, Army,

appropriation for..

252, 1168

assignment of rooms to officers ; com-

mutation ....

1168

for hospital stewards Quebec, Quebec,
classification and salary of consul .. Queens Creek, Va.,

255, 1172 99

preliminary examination of, to be made.. 1117

Queenstown, Md.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1081

Queman, Isaiah,

pension increased .

1585

Quentin, Josephine E. (widow),

pension increased

1563

Quermbeck, Peter,

pension increased .

1841

Qui-nai-elt and Quil- leh-ute Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of ............. 377 , 1050

Quick, Homer,

granted honorable discharge .

2821

Quien, George,

pension increased

2557

Quigg, David H.,

pension increased

1432

3576

INDEX.

Quigley, William C., pension increased .

Page. 1847

Quigley, William S.,

pension increased .

2289

Quill, Michael,

pension increased

1946

Quimby, John J.,

pension increased

1621

Quincy, Ill.,

additional term of court .

882

Quincy, Mass.,

construction of public building author-

ized at..

777

appropriation for .

791 , 1302

Quinn, Bridget (widow) ,

pension increased .

2146

Quinn, Jennie, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

373

Quinn, Samuel, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

373

Quinn, Timothy,

pension increased

2627

Quinton, John M. ,

pension increased .

2104

Quist, Andrew P.,

pension increased .

2124

Quitman County, Miss. ,

bridge authorized across Coldwater River, between Coahoma County and ..... 631

Quang Hong Yick ,

reimbursement to ..

2412

- .

Raccoon Creek, N. J. ,

appropriation for improvement of; restric-

tion

1080

Racine, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1100

Rader, Charles T., authorized to select 480 acres in Montana

under desert-land laws ...

2309

Rafferty, Ann (widow),

pension increased ..

2474

Rafferty, Florence D. (widow), pension .
Raft River Forest Reserve, Idaho and Utah,
proclamation establishing Ragan, Alice E. (widow),
pension increased .......

1515 3247 2553

Ragan, Mary Jane (widow),

pension increased .

2244

Rahway River, N. J., preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1115

Raigle, George W.,

pension increased .

1430

Railroad,

term to include bridges and ferries used in

connection with

584

all the roads owned or operated under

contract, etc

584

switches, terminal facilities, etc

584

freight depots, yards, etc ...

584

Railroad Rates (see Interstate Commerce

Regulations ). Railroad Routes, Postal Service,
appropriation for mail transportation by. 472, 1212 reduction in rates after July 1 , 1907 ... 1212

additional pay for post-office car serv- 1212

ice ...

1212

fines for failures to maintain schedule

time..

472, 1212

for freight or express on postal cards,

empty bags, etc.

473, 1212

withdrawal of supplies , etc., from

mails at weighing periods .

1212

Railroad Routes , Postal Service - Cont'd.

Page.

deficiency appropriation for mail transpor-

tation by.

658, 668, 1392

Railroads (see also Transportation),

appropriation for enforcing safety appli-

ances on ...

705, 1312

for examination of block systems, etc ... 1312

deficiency appropriation for enforcing

safety appliances on

13

forbidden to carry products in which inter-

ested, etc.

585

hours of labor by train, etc., employees

limited ....

1415

investigation ordered as to ownership , etc. ,

by, of coal or oil carried, or in coal or.

oil lands, etc....

823

by officials, and persons furnishing cars,

etc ..

823

combinations to monopolize trade in coal

or oil..

823

car supply facilities for coal or oil...

823

investigations ordered on block-signal systems and automatic train control... 838

liability for injuries to employees through

neglect of officers, etc .....

232

rights of way granted through public lands

forfeited on failure to construct in

five years....

482

Railway Adjustments, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent, assistant,

etc ...

437, 983

Railway Congress, International,

appropriation for annual quota ..

292, 921

Railway Discriminations,

appropriation for regulating, etc ...

1311

Railway Employees,

appropriation for arbitration of differ-

ences ..

705, 1311

liability of common carriers for injuries to. 232 provisions limiting hours of labor by.... 1415

Railway Employees, Hours of Labor, correction in enrollment of act, directed .. 2840

Railway Mail Service,

appropriation for General Superintendent,

assistant, etc.....

473,983

for division superintendents, assistants,

etc ....

473, 1212

entry and advancement of clerks..

1213

sick leaves ..

474

appointments, etc. , limited ....... 474, 1213

transfer of civil-war veterans to office

duty .....

474

for emergency service ..

474, 1213

for substitute clerks ; vacations .

474, 1213

for acting clerks in place of injured;

death allowance.....

474, 1213

for traveling expenses..

474, 1213

for miscellaneous expenses....

474, 1213

for per diem, etc. , assistant superintend-

ents .

474, 1213

deficiency appropriation for assistant su-

perintendents ..

658

Railway Post-Office Car Service, appropriation for.....

473, 1212

Railway Rates, Discriminations,

appropriation for examinations, etc

705

deficiency appropriation for examinations,

etc ..

119

Railway Rates Hearings , Senate,

deficiency appropriation for extra services

of clerks, etc

43, 1396

Rainier Forest Reserve, Wash.,

proclamation enlarging Mt. Rainier Forest Reserve, and changing name to.... 3296

INDEX.

3577

Rains, John P., pension increased .

Page. 1897

Rainy River Bridge Company,
may construct bridge , etc. , over Rainy River at Pethers Point, Minn ..... 103

Rainy River, Minn., bridge authorized across, at Pethers Point. 103

Raker, Matthew D., jr.,

pension increased .

1557

Raleigh, N. C.,

terms of court

1224

Ralston, William,-

pension increased .

1747

Rambo, James T. ,

pension increased .

2195

Ramsay, Winfield S.,

pension increased .

2259

Ramsey, James, Second North Carolina In-

fantry,

pension increased .

2129

Ramsey, James, Third North Carolina In-

fantry,

pension increased .

2083

Ramsey, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased

2021

Ramsey, Rebecca (widow),

pension increased ..

1750

Ramsey, Robert,

pension increased .

2264

Randall, Darius H. ,

pension increased .

1579

Randall, James S. (son) ,

pension...

1709

Randall, Oakaley,

pension increased .

2230

Randolph, Amelia R. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2454

Randolph, Harrison.

pension increased .

1931

Randolph, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased .

2347

Raney, James E.,

pension increased

2107

Range and Position Finders, Army,

appropriation for purchase, etc .. in insular possessions..

462, 1058 J061

for field batteries

463, 1175

for purchase, etc. , Hawaii fortifications .. 465

Rankin, David, Sixty-first Ohio Volunteer In-

fantry, pension increased .
Rankin, David. One hundred and seventy-eighth Ohio Volunteer Infantry,
pension reased. Rankin, Rid B. ,
pension increased

1660
.1861 2477

Rapid City, S. Dak., appropriation for Indian school . for land for school ; water supply
Rappahannock River, Va. ,

370, 1047 370

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts .

1082

Rardin, Jacob C.,

pension increased .

1582

Rarick, Orrin S.,

pension increased

2214

Raritan Bay, N. J., appropriation for improvement of........ 1079

Raritan River, N. J., appropriation for lighting.. for improvement of..
Raschig, Gustavus F. E. , pension increased ..

713, 1320 1079
2332

Rassbach, John C., pension increased .

2114

Rates, Railroad (see Interstate Commerce Page.

Regulations ) .

Rathbun, George C.,

pension increased

2343

Ration, Navy,

modified, established.

570

substitutions permitted.

571

extra allowance, night duty, etc.
interchange of articles. Rations, Army,
appropriation for.. emergency, to be issued in
regular..

machinists , 571 1193
249, 1165 addition to
1165

Rattray, Charles,

pension increased

1765

Rauch, John,

pension increased .

1649

Raudabaugh, Emanuel,

pension increased .

2370

Rawles, Harriett A. (widow),

pension increased

1942

Rawling, John, pension increased

2165

Rawlings, John W. ,

pension increased

2797

Rawlins, Wyo.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

781

appropriation for .

794, 1302

Ray, Dennis W.,

pension increased

2002

Ray, Isaac N.,

pension increased

1678

Ray, Malcolm ,

pension increased .

2062

Raymond, Charles, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Raymond, Nellie (widow) ,

pension increased .

1550

Raymond, Samuel G.,

pension increased .

1745

Raymond, Seth,

pension increased

1560

Raynor, John W.,

pension increased .

1890

Rea, Emma M. (widow),

pension..

1499

Read, Frank H.,

pension increased

2280

Read, Helen B. (widow),

pension increased .

1648

Reagan, George W. ,

pension increased .

2346

Real Estate, D. C. ,

acknowledgment of deeds, etc. , in Guam.

Samoa, or Canal Zone

552

Ream, Benjamin B., -

pension increased.

2359

Reaney, Annie (widow),

pension increased .

2401

Reavis, Leonidas W.,

pension increased .

2514

Reavis, Sarah Ann (widow),

1

pension increased .

2250

Rebates, Railway Interstate,

forbidden...

587

penalty for giving or receiving.

587

additional penalty for receiving, from car-

riers ...

588

recovery in civil action ..

.588

Reber, Jonathan B.,

pension increased .

2544

3578

INDEX.

Receipts and Expenditures of the Government, Page.

statement for preceding year to be made in

Reclamation Service, Irrigation of Aria Page.

annual report of Secretary of the

Lands-Continued .

Treasury. Receivers ofPublic Moneys ,

deficiency appropriation for rent, payable

949

from reclamation fund.............

appropriation for salaries and commissions ,

allowance to chief disbursing officer, Geo- 663

land offices.... deficiency appropriation for reimbursing 676273,, 11430322 unearned fees and unofficial moneys to be

logical Survey..

employment of Indians on

729

printing ordered of fourth annual report of. 1015

deposited in Treasury after five years;

Recorder of Deeds , D. C.,

836

list, etc. moneys deposited by unknown parties; 1245

appropriation for purchase of book typewriters ; use for recording .

deposit, list, etc .. refund to parties entitled .

recopying old records by, permitted ; limit. 489

1245 Records of the Rebellion, Naval,

994

cash entry payments by homesteaders only 1245 appropriation for publication of...

refundatftoe, rfarpopmrocvoanltibnygreengtisetxeprsenasneds ., .p.a.y- 1245 Recruiting, Navy, 423, 969 appropriation for: restriction as to age. . 555, 1177

ments made for hearings and depos-

Recruiting, Marine Corps,

iting from private funds ... limitation , regulations, etc ..

1245 appropriation for... Rector, Enoch,

581, 1202

Receivers, United States Courts,

1245 pension increased .

appeals to circuit court of appeals from

Rector, James L.,

2004

any interlocutory order appointing.

pension increased

Reciprocal Commercial Arrangements,

116 Rector, Julius,

1478

with Bulgaria with Germany.

pension increased .

3231 Red Cross Society, American National,

2102

with Portugal

3192 appropriation for representatives at con-

with Spain...

3268

ference in London ..

with Switzerland R

3227 Red Cross Conference , International,

1357

eclamation Act , National,

3185 deficiency appropriation for delegates ....

establishment of farm units for fruit and

Red Earth, Henry, Indian Allottee,

118

garden lands subdivision surveys

under. ; entries

of

lesser

areas.

additional entries allowed for lands re-

linquished...: appraisal and sale of town sites within irri-

gation projects ....

fee-simple title to..

519 Red Hook Channel, N. Y.,

373

519 appropriation for improvement of...

modification of improvement of, authorize7d36, 1344

519 Red Lake River, Minn.,

1077

dams, etc. , authorized across ..

rights to settlers, Heyburn and Rupert, Idaho ..
withdrawals, etc. , of town sites in excess of limit..
desert-land entries within irrigation project
not to have time computed while

519 Red Men, Great Council, Improved Order of,

65

incorporated in District of Columbia...

520 Red River, La. , Ark. , Tex. , and Okla.,

117

appropriation for improvement of..

520

for lighting mouth..

1090

preliminary examination of, to be made 7at13, 1320

delayed ..... if projects abandoned , credit allowed for 520

Boyce Landing, La.. time extended for bridging, by Shreve- 1113

improvements, etc ..

port, La..

if carried on, may relinquish excess and 520 Red River ofthe North, Minn. and N. Dak., 9, 1255

obtain patent ...
owning water right need not accept recla- 520 mation conditions .
disposal of lands in Colville Reservation, 520

appropriation for improvement of. preliminary examination to be made for
connecting Minnesota River with ... in North Dakota.......

1102 1114

Wash. , under...

bridge authorized across, in North Dakota 1116

irrigable lands on Yakima Indian Reser- 82

and Minnesota..

vation, Wash., open to entry under..

by Oslo, Minn..........

820

lands in Hailey district , Idaho, reserved 53 Red Rock Lakes Reservoir, Mont.,

467

for town site entries under. provisions extended to Texas.. 3215 sales ofrestricted Indian allotments within 259

lands within site of, restored to public do-
main . selections in lieu , by Montana, owners , 150

projects of, permitted ...

etc..

town sites; withdrawals in connection with 327 Red Wing, Minn.,

150

projects under.. sales; proceeds .. public reservations for towns . water supply; charges .
power privileges; leases... withdrawal of lands on abandoned Fort
Shaw Reservation , Mont . , for projects under Reclamation Fund,
use of, for dam across Rio Grande under irri-

acquiring site and erecting public building

116

at, authorized ........

116

appropriation for....

780

116 Redding, John, 116

793, 1302

pension increased .

117 Redemption of Internal-Revenue Stamps,

2599

deficiency appropriation for...

Redfield, Daniel W.,

29, 638, 1375

229 pension increased

Redic, Oliver C.,

2269

ReclamatigoatniSoenrcviocnev,eInrtriiognatwiiotnhoMfeAxriicdoL.a.n.d..s ,
appropriation for expenses.. for books , etc

1357
728 1336

pension increased Redmond, William E.,
pension increased . Ree, Frances, Indian Allottee,
fec-simple title to....

1817 2271

374

INDEX .

3579

Reece, John, pension increased

Page. 2126

Reed, Andrew C.,

pension increased

1452

Reed, Benjamin D. ,

pension increased .

2767

Reed, Charles,

pension increased .

2613

Reed, Estelle I. (widow),

pension .

2374

Reed, George W.,

pension increased .

1704

Reed, Henry,

pension increased .

2511

Reed, James,

pension increased .

2269

Reed, John W.,

pension increased .

1649

Reed, Sarah J. (widow),

pension increased ..

2790

Reed, Thomas,

pension increased .

1839

Reeder, George H.,

pension increased .

2245

Reeder, George W. ,

pension increased .

1996

Reeder, James,

pension increased ..

2232

Reedy, Peter,

pension increased ..

2292

Rees, L. E.,

payment to .

2662

Reese, Hannah C. (widow),

pension increased .

1883

Reese, Patterson,

pension increased .

2615

Reese, Samuel M.,

pension increased ..

2018

Reese, W. J.,

payment to .

2662

Reese, William ,

pension increased .

2526

Reesequie, Noah,

pension increased .

2253

Reess, Elizabeth S. (widow),

-pension increased

2424

Reeve, Leander C.,

pension increased .

1920

Reeves, Christopher C.,

pension increased .

2032

Reeves, Samuel,

pension increased ..

2718

Reform School , D. C. ,

appropriation for care, etc. , of boys com-

mitted to ..

510, 1150

for new buildings..

751 , 1358

for additional family building. for maintenance..

1358 758, 1364

deficiency appropriation for plans for new

building; limit of cost ..

40

for repairs, etc ..

40

for allowance in accounts of S. W.

Curriden ......

656

juvenile court to make commitments to ..

74

Reform School for Girls, D. C. ,

appropriation for salaries and expenses . 510, 1150 juvenile court to make commitments to ... 74

Refunding Internal- Revenue Taxes,

deficiency appropriation for, illegally col-

lected

29, 638, 665, 1375

Refuse, D. C., City, appropriation for removing..

495, 1132

Reger, Henry Loor,

pension increased

2586

Register ofthe Treasury,

Page.

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc .. 407, 954

Register of Wills, D. C.,

appropriation for card index, etc.

1126

Registered Mail, appropriation for indemnity for lost.... 476 , 1214

deficiency appropriation for indemnity for

lost ...

668

Registered Nurses, D. C. ,

registration required ..

887

nurses' examining board; qualifications

and appointment, etc.

887

certificates of registration ; examinations . 888

fee for registration ; requirements of appli-

cants .

888

examinations, etc. , excepted .

888

revocation of certificates ; hearing, etc

888

expenses, etc ..

889

punishment for violations ..

889

acceptance of registry elsewhere ; condition . 889

limitations ...

889

Registers, Land Offices,

appropriation for salaries and commis-

sions ..

723, 1332

Registry Division, Post-Office Department,

appropriation for superintendent , assist-

ants, etc..

438, 983

for per diem, assistant superintendents . 438, 984

for supplies.

476, 1215

Regulation of Railroad Rates (see Interstate Commerce Regulations).

Rehoboth Bay, Del.,

preliminary examination, to be made for

canal to Delaware Bay.

1112

Reich, Emilie Grace (widow),

pension increased .

1844

Reichburg, Augusta C. (widow),
pension... Reichenberg, Austria,
classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire....

2164
99 294, 924

Reid, Hugh,

pension increased ..

2195

Reid, Nancy G. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2590

Reidy, Bridget (widow),

pension increased .

1782

Reighter, Theodore F.,

pension increased

2388

Reily, Peter,

deficiency appropriation for extra services . 43

Reindeer, Alaska,

appropriation for support, etc ..

730, 1338

transfer to missions

730

sale of surplus males.

1338

deficiency appropriation for.

654

Reisinger, Roe, alias J. Monroe Reisinger,

awarded medal of honor for bravery at bat-

tle of Gettysburg, 1863 .

1420

Relief and Protection of American Seamen,

appropriation for ..

295 , 925

deficiency appropriation for.

27,667, 1405

Religious Properties, D. C.,

refund of taxes erroneously charged on... 869

deficiency appropriation for.....

1380

Remick, John,

pension increased

2300

Remington, Dennis, alias John Baker,

pension increased ..

2537

Remington, Martha A. (widow),

pension .

1796

Renell, Charles W.,

pension increased .

1668

3580

INDEX .

Renick, Oscar F., pension .

Page. 1655

Renner, John W.,

payment to personal representatives ...... 2662 Reno, Nev.,

appropriation for public building .............

1302

deficiency appropriation for furniture, pub-

lic building...

1374

grant of strip of land to , from public build-

ing site...

1237

limit of cost increased , public building at . 773

Rent,

appropriation for Department of State .... 949

for Treasury Department ..

410, 956

for War Department ..

421,967

for Navy Department . for Interior Department.

427, 973 434, 979

for Post-Office Department.

439, 985

for Department of Justice .. for Census Office .....

441, 986 444, 989

for Department of Commerce and La-

bor .

446, 991

for District Government ..

489, 1125

for National Museum...

704, 1311

deficiency appropriation for Reclamation

Service ...

663

Rent of Court Rooms, appropriation for .
deficiency appropriation for.. Renville, Alexis V. , Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to ..

755, 1361 41 , 657, 1391
374

Repayment to Importers,

deficiency appropriation for, excess of de-

posits ..

45

Reporting Proceedings in Congress,

appropriation for House of Representa-

tives...

396, 942

for Senate..

392, 938

deficiency appropriation for House of Rep-

resentatives ..

662, 1398

for Senate..

661, 1396

Reports, Annual,

to be made by carriers to Interstate Com-

merce Commission .....

593

Reports of Departments, etc.,

designation of; printing and binding ...... 1014

Reports, Published,

cost of composition , illustrations , etc. ,

chargeable to Department, etc. , pre-

paring..

825

printing, binding, etc., charged in pro-

portion as delivered ..

825

otherwise distributed ....

825

printed for Congress, may be issued in two

or more editions instead of one ; max-

imum .....

826

Departments may be issued in two or more editions instead of one ; max-

imum ...........

826

full number authorized if necessary..

826

Reports, Senate and House,

classification of: numbering, etc.......... 1014

Reppeto, James,

pension increased ..

2056

Representatives in Congress,

appropriation for compensation and mile-

age .

392, 938

for clerk hire .

396, 942

deficiency appropriation for tion ...
binding of documents for . compensation established . Reproducing Plats of Surveys, appropriation for .

compensa661. 1396 1013 994
724, 1332

Republics , American,

Page.

treaty between, for arbitration of pecuniary claims
Rerick, Isaac L., pension increased .
Reuter, Henry F., pension increased .
Reserve Fund, Treasury, suspension of issuing gold certificates when coin and bullion in, falls below $100,000,000 .......
Reservoir Site,
proclamation reserving, to Indians in Uintah Reservation , Utah ..
area reduced

2845 1695 2725
1289
3141 3143

Reservoirs at Head of the Mississippi River,

appropriation for reconstructing Sandy

Lake dam.....

1105

for dam at Gull Lake ..

1105

for ditches Gull Lake to Round Lake ... 1105

Residence Abroad,

proceedings to cancel citizenship certificates of holders keeping permanent . 601

Restraint of Trade, etc..

investigation ordered of contracts, etc. , in ,

of coal or oil ....

823

Retent on Contracts, D. C., term of, for repairs of construction work... 94 extended to construction of buildings, etc. 929

Retired Judges, appropriation for salaries......

447, 992

Revenue-Cutter Service,

appropriation for expenses.. for seal fisheries, etc. , Alaska ..

702, 1308 702, 1309

for enforcing anchorage regulations , New

York and Chicago .

702, 1309

Kennebec River, Me.

702, 1309

Saint Marys River, Mich..

702, 1309

for depot, Arundel Cove , Md .

702

for improvement of depot...

1309

details of officers in District of Colum-

bia, permitted ...

1309

for steamer, North Carolina waters ....

702

for repairs to vessels .. transfer of " Bancroft "

702, 1309 702

for life-saving tug, North Pacific coast . 702, 1309

for vessel for removal of derelicts .... 703 , 1309

for launch, Norfolk, Va ..

703

for steamer for Maine coast .

1309

for installing wireless telegraphy on ves-

sels .....

1309

for steam cutter, Puget Sound , etc ..

1309

for steam cutter, Savannah, Ga...

1309

for seagoing tug, New Bedford , Mass .

1309

for boarding vessel , New Orleans, La.... 1309 deficiency appropriation for expenses .. 30, 45
for stores, etc. , San Francisco earth-

quake ...

638

for refunding personal loss, San Fran-

cisco earthquake...

1373

for ocean-going tug .

1373

appointment of Webb C. Maglathlin as second assistant engineer authorized ..
construction of four steam vessels authorized ; cost; duty ..
enlistments in, to be for three years..
general regulations to be prepared .......... punishments authorized by commanders ..
by service courts; composition.. specified offenses.....
upon commissioned officers .
upon other persons...

2817
1009 200 200 200 200 200 200 201

INDEX .

3581

Revenue- Cutter Service-Continued.

Page.

punishments; official prosecutor; approval,

etc.. of sentences ..

201

execution of imprisonment sentences.. 201

arrest of deserters ; rewards .

201

deserters disqualified for further service , or

enlistment in Army or Navy.

201

removal of disability .

201

concurrent jurisdiction of civil authori-

ties ..

201

other offenses triable by civil authorities .. 201

number of third lieutenants ; promotion

from cadets .....

452

cadets limited to filling vacancies in third

lieutenants ...

452

examination ; disqualification .

452

to serve at least three years ; dismissals .. 452

second assistant engineers, examinations ;

qualifications ..

452

two civilian instructors; salaries..

453

officers not required to make oath to pay

accounts ..

453

constructor to be selected from chief engi-

neers .

453

office of Captain of Engineers abolished ... 30

Engineer-in-Chief, created ; term ..

30

rank, pay, and allowances ..

30

detail for enforcing anchorage, etc. , rules,

Saint Marys River...

136

to assist enforcing law against illegal

landing, etc., of sponges

314

sea-going tug authorized for life-saving

service north Pacific coast ..

123

use of vessels and supplies for relief of earthquake sufferers, authorized .... 827

vessel for removing derelicts, etc. , by,

authorized ..

190

Revenue from Customs,

appropriation for expenses of collecting;

additional ...

1315

deficiency appropriation for collecting.

28.

45, 636, 665, 1401

amount for detection of frauds upon, etc.,

increased .

1315

fines, fees, charges, etc. , to be covered into .

the Treasury..

1315

payments to collectors, etc. , on account of fees, to be from appropriation for

collecting...

1315

Revised Statutes,

amended, section 192.

449

· section 198 .

219

section 508 .

219

section 510 .

219

section 858 .

618

section 1305 .

246

section 1308.

246

section 1580 .

570

section 1581 . section 1661 .

571, 1193 449

section 1690 . section 1699. section 1700 . section 2536 . section 2578. section 2630 .. section 2730 . section 2844. section 2871 . section 3240 .. section 3528. section 3529 . section 3646 . section 3679 . section 3718 ..

99 101 101 874
302 880
763 539 633 387 132 132
84, 301
49 841

Revised Statutes-Continued. amended, section 3719 .. section 4000 . section 4325 . section 4348 . section 4414 . section 4421 section 4426 . section 4438 . section 4471. section 4472 . section 4502 . section 4819. section 4937 section 5153 . section 5200 . section 5481 . repealed, section 1721 . section 2165 . section 2167 section 2168 . section 2173 . section 2851 . section 4136 . section 4386 . section 4387 . section 4388 . section 4389 . section 4390 . section 5193 .
Revision of the Laws,

Page. 841 68 136 190 106 230 194 864 797 204 137 242 168 1290 451 546 101 603 603 603 603 101 17 608 608 608 608 608 1289

joint committee authorized to submit rec-

ommendations for...

2833

joint special committee to report, etc. , on

work of statutory revision commis-

sion; expenses, etc ..

1423

Revision of the Laws, Commission on,

to complete work by December 15, 1906... 754

Revolution, War ofthe,

records of public and private armed vessels in Executive Departments to be
transferred to Secretary of the Navy. 579

Reynolds, Aletha E. (mother),

pension ...

1488

Reynolds, Hannah O. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2625

Reynolds, Hezekiah J.,

pension increased .

2084

Reynolds, James W. , alias William Reynolds,

pension increased .

1594

Reynolds, John, pension...
Reynolds, Joshua T. ,
granted honorable discharge.... Reynolds, Lizzie G. (widow),
pension increased .
Reynolds, Luke, pension increased .
Reynolds , Mary J. (widow), pension increased .
Reynolds, Michael, pension.
Reynolds, Richard, pension increased .

1712 2215 1448 2562 1821 2144 1891

Reynolds , Silas A. ,

pension increased .

2255

Rheims, France, classification and salary of consul.... ..... 100

Rhoades, Henry E., transferred on Navy retired list ........

... 1958

Rhoads, Oliver H. P.,

pension increased

2720

Rhoads, William II. ,

pension increased

2256

3582

INDEX .

Rhodd, Zoe, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to... Rhode Island,

Page. Richardville, Thomas F. , Indian Allottee,

365 alienation restrictions removed..

Page.

appropriation for naval training station . 556, 1178 Richey Amanda M. (widow),

346

for naval training station , buildings

pension..

resettlement of claim for expenses, war 1189 Richie, Thomas J.,

1507

with Spain

pension increased .

Rhode Island Avenue, D. C. ,

214 Richland Creek, Tenn.,

2807

proceedings to condemn land for extending ..
deficiency appropriation for extending....... Rhodes, George,
pension increased . Rhodes, Henry J.,

15 1377
2396

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1117 Richmond, Josephine I. (widow),

pension.

Richmond, Va. ,

2289

appropriation for public building; con-

tracts.

pension increased. Rhodes, Hinman,

rent .

1303

2496 reconstruction and enlargement authorized 1303

pension increased Rhodes, Samuel,
pension increased Rice, Daisy, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to.. Rice, Daniel, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to . Rice, Ebenezer E.,
pension increased . Rice, Elizabeth H. (widow),
pension increased Rice, George H.,
pension increased . Rice, Henry J.,
pension increased . Rice, Job,

1610 2501 374 356 1907 2690 1586 2346

of public building at.. appropriation for....... Richter, George,
pension increased Rickard, Jacob S.,
pension increased Rickett, Ebenezer,
pension increased : Ricketts , Andrew,
pension increased . Riddell, Solomon,
pension increased. Riddle, Joseph,
pension increased Rider, Mrs. Josephine, Indian Allottee,
alienation restrictions removed ...

785 796 1785 2097 1860 1612 1870 2768

pension increased Rice, Joseph S.,
pension increased . Rice, Samuel B.,

Riedmüller, Anton,

345

1947 pension increased .

Rifle Contests,

1594

1861 appropriation for national trophy at.... 258, 1175

pension increased Rice, William F. M.,

2136 for medals, prizes , etc. deficiency appropriation for national trop2h5y8, 1175

pension increased . Rich, Jacob,

medals, etc.. 1939 Rifle Practice, National Board for Promotion 32

pension increased Richards, Benjamin F.,
pension increased . Richards, Isaac,

1576

of, appropriation for expenses of meetings..........

Rifle Practice, Organized Militia,

258

2761 annual appropriation available for ex-

pension increased . Richards, James,
pension increased

penses..

2344 Riga, Russia,

450

classification and salary of consul .......

Richards, Oscar F. ,

2149 Riggin, William H.,

100

pension increased

pension increased .

Richards, William E. ,

2700 Riggs, Clay,

2069

pension increased .

pension increased

Richardson County, Nebr.,

2576 Riggs, Lycurgus D. ,

2098

per capita payment to Sac and Fox In-

pension increased.

dians, from tribal funds ....

Right of Way,

2227

payment of drainage assessments .

262 granted through certain public lands and

appropriation for per capita to Indians..

263

forest reserves in California ...

for drainage assessments on tribal lands . 263

Fort Columbia Military Reservation ..

801

for drainage assessment on lands of Iowas. 263

Fort Douglas Reservation , Utah...

926

cost of reclaiming Indian lands may be 263

Fort Keogh Military Reservation, Mont. 927

assessed thereon .....

Fort Marion Military Reservation, Fla .. 187

fee-simple patents may be issued to Indians 263

Fort Niobrara Reservation , Nebr..

1219

in drainage district... Richardson, Edwin P. ,
pension increased Richardson, Nathan B. ,
pension increased .
Richardson, Thomas L.,

263 2669 1532

Fort Sill Military Reservation, Okla. Fort Wright Military Reservation, Wash.
Lock No. 1, Upper White River, Ark....... Natchez, Miss., national cemetery .. Pigeon Point Light-House Reservation ,

297 613 865, 927 1283 1248

pension increased . Richardson, William G.,
pension incro, sed .
Richardson, William H., pension increased .
Richardville, Mary , Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed ..

2791 1610 2119 346

Cal...
public lands in Colorado to Central Colorado Power Company.
quarantine station, Washington . San Pedro Military Reservation, Cal.. Shiloh National Park..
Vicksburg, Miss . , national cemetery . Willoughby Spit Military Reservation ,
Va ..

548
1227 926 915 388 849

1249

INDEX.

3583

Right of Way- Continued .
of railroads through lands reserved to Arizona and Oklahoma, confirmed ..
provisions for electric power companies, Indian Territory..
through public lands forfeited by railroads
failing to construct in five years .... time extended to Alaska Central Railway
for building road in Alaska... Alaska Short Line Railway and Naviga-
tion Company... Council City and Solomon River Rail-
road in Alaska... to railroads in Indian reservations, etc.;
limit for stations increased..

Page. 481 146 482 798 610 6 330

Riley, Albert, pension increased
Riley, James, pension increased

2461 2774

Riley, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased

2241

Riley, William J.,

pension increased

1701

Riley, William L.,

pension increased

2068

Rimouski, Quebec,

classification and salary of consul ...................

99

Riner, Jacob,

pension increased

2793

Ring, Anna (widow),

pension increased

2222

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.............

293, 924

for reimbursing consul-general, navy

claim ......

1291

deficiency appropriation for Pan-American

Conference at ...

118

Rio Grande,

appropriation for irrigation dam , under

convention with Mexico....

1357

convention with Mexico, for equitable use

of, for irrigation

2953

Ripley, Tenn.,

delivery of gun carriage to, for monument,

authorized...

836

Risk, Abisha,

pension increased

1925

Risum, Otto A. ,

pension increased

1952

Ritchie, Amanda W. (widow),

pension increased

2231

Riter, Samuel H. W.,

pension increased .

2766

Rittenberry, Mack,

pension...

2485

Rittenhouse, Henry,

pension increased .

1770

River and Harbor Appropriation Act,

correction in enrollment directed ...

2839

River and Harbor Improvements,

appropriation for improvement of rivers

and harbors ...

736, 1073, 1344

contracts authorized , 35-foot channel ,

Boston, Mass

1074

Ambrose Channel , N. Y

1077

Black Rock Harbor, Niagara River,

N. Y...

1078

Cold Spring Inlet, Cape May, N. J .. 1079

Baltimore, Md ...

1081

Savannah, Ga..

1084

locks and dams, Black Warrior, War-

rior, and Tombigbee rivers, Ala..... 1087

Southwest Pass , Mississippi River .... 1089

River and Harbor Improvements Cont'd.

Page.

appropriation for improvement of rivers

and harbors- continued .

contracts authorized , Galveston Harbor,

Tex ...

1090

Ohio River..

1095

Detroit River.

1098

Saint Marys River Falls, Mich. , new

lock and canal..

1098

location of dam on Fox River

changed ...

1102

power station Rock River, Ill . , au-

thorized ..

1103

Mississippi River..

1103

engineer commission on 14-foot

channel..

1104

Columbia River, Oreg. and Wash ..... 1107

for dredges, Oregon and Washington

waters ...

1107

time extended for improving Snake

River, Alaska ..

1109

for emergencies ; limit.

1110

depth of tidal waters .

1110

payment for repairs, etc.

1110

surveys, etc., to be paid from appro-

priations for improvement..

1110

work by contract or otherwise .

1110

allotment of consolidated items ..

1110

combination of contracts ....

1110

use of insufficient appropriations .... 1111

for preliminary examinations, surveys,

etc.....

1111

no surveys, etc. , unless specially

ordered ..

1111

restriction on supplemental reports, etc. 1111 payment for examination of wharves,

harbor lines, etc. , in Porto Rico .... 1111

preliminary examinations or surveys

ordered ..

1111

review by board ; restriction .

1118

submission of reports; printing ..

1118

compilation of laws ordered printed ;

contents .....

1119

use of dredges authorized on Great Lakes

and North Atlantic coast .

1119

changes in location of bridges over Hudson

River, N. Y. , on approval of Secre-

tary of War

1119

International Waterways Commission , rent

of rooms..

1119

condemnation of land for, at expense of

persons, etc., to obtain title, and

transfer to Government ..

196

extended to locks, dry docks, etc.

632

improvement of seacoast channel, etc. , by

New Jersey, authorized ...

800

payment for dredging channel and anchor-

age basin, Mississippi Sound , Miss .. 833

printing ordered of preliminary examina-

tions and surveys, act of 1905 ..

839

survey of Coney Island channel, N. Y. ,

ordered .

538

use of balance, Mississippi River, between

the Ohio and the Missouri

838

River and Harbor Improvement Laws,

compilation ordered printed to include second session , Fifty-ninth Congress ... 1119
"River Queen, " Steamer,

appropriation for reimbursing owners of... 1293

Rivers,

appropriation for lighting of.
regulations for bridges over. for dams across .

712, 1320 84
386

Rivers, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ....

2248

3584

INDEX .

Riverside, Cal., appropriation for Indian school...

Page. 333, 1022

deficiency appropriation for Indian school . 655 Rives, John C.,

release of title to lands devised by .

2139

Rixey, J. F., late a Representative in Congress,

deficiency appropriation for pay to widow . 1396

Roach, Albert C.,

pension increased

2472

Roache, John W.,

pension increased .

1526

Roads, D. C.,

appropriation for grading.. for condemnation , etc .. for construction of county .
for repairs, county .......... Roads, etc. , Alaska,
provision for constructing, etc ... Roadways, D. C. ,

490, 1128 491 , 1128 491 , 1128 492, 1130
192

appropriation for paving under permit

system ....

1127

condemnation of land for, proceedings un-

der Code .

151

Roanoke River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of...

1083

bridge authorized across, at Weldon ....

197

Roanoke, Va. ,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at , authorized ..

776

appropriation for.

791, 1303

terms of court at ..

547

Robb, Daniel,

pension...

2332

Robb, John, first,

pension increased

2357

Robbe, William P.,

pension increased .

2784

Robbins, Jason,

pension increased .

1461

Robbins, John H. ,

pension increased .

2557

Robbins, John R.,

pension increased .

2795

Roberts, Aaron L.,

pension increased .

2277

Roberts, Edwin L.,

pension increased .

2327

Roberts, Henry, pension increased .
Roberts, Jacob M. F., pension increased .
Roberts, John A. , pension increased .
Roberts, Joseph J., pension increased .
Roberts, Lloyd, pension increased .
Roberts, Richard A. , pension increased .
Roberts, Samuel G., pension increased .

1525 2735 1522 2344 2798 2164 1847

Roberts, Sophronia (widow),

pension increased .

1936

Roberts, Thomas M.,

pension increased .

2284

Robertson, James,

pension increased .

2374

Robertson, Louisa E. (widow),

pension increased ..

2757

Robertson, William B. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .....

373

Robey, Sarah E. (widow),

pension...

2477

Robey, Thomas, pension increased

Page. 1510

Robins, George W.,

pension..

2796

Robinson, George L.,

pension increased

2320

Robinson, George W. , Michigan Volunteers,

pension increased

2762

Robinson, George W. , U. S. Volunteers,

pension..

1737

Robinson, Henry M.,

pension increased

1563

Robinson, Joseph A. ,

pension increased

2465

Robinson, James N.,

payment to ..

2224

Robinson, Joseph C., pension increased
Robinson, Louis C. , pension increased
Robinson, Minerva (widow), pension repealed .
Robinson Point, Wash., light-keepers' dwelling, directed ..
deficiency appropriation for... Robinson, Samuel,

1466 1999 2665 324 660

deficiency appropriation for.......... 663, 1398

Robinson, Stephen,

pension increased .

2534

Robinson, William H. H. ,

pension increased.

1951

Robison, William C. ,

pension...

1705

Rochambeau Statue,

deficiency appropriation for account of

ceremonies, unveiling

644

authority to print proceedings of cere-

monies, unveiling of, continued .... 2830

Roche, Redmond,

pension increased .

2525

Rochester, Minn.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

783

appropriation for .

795

Rochester, N. Y.,

limit of cost increased , public building.... 773

appropriation for..

789, 1303

rent ...

1303

for special repairs..

1303

Rock Creek Park, D. C. ,

appropriation for care and improvement . 497, 1135

Congressional committee on proposed ad-

ditions to..

788

opening of park way from Sixteenth street

to, authorized ...

1000

appropriation for condemnation expenses 1001 Rock Creek Valley, D. C.,

appropriation for expenses of plans for

treatment of, in the city.

1131

Rock Island, Arkansas and Louisiana Railroad

Company,

may bridge Ouachita, etc. , rivers, Ark....

1

Rock Island Arsenal, Ill., appropriation for care, etc. for water supply . for bridge expenses..

731, 1339 732
732, 1339

deficiency appropriation for bridge ex-

penses .

1381

payment for losses, fire at .

2661

Rock Island Rapids , Mississippi River, time extended for dam, etc., on banks of... 876

Rock of Ages, Lake Superior,

appropriation for light and fog-signal sta-

tion....

711, 1316

INDEX:

3585

Rock River, Ill., construction of dam authorized across, near Grand Detour...
dams, etc., at Lyndon .. dams authorized across north and south
branches, Rock Island County, Ill .. power plant by Sterling Hydraulic Com-
pany on, authorized .

Page.
14 933 155 1103

Rock Sink, Fla. , Missionary Baptist Church,

sale of lands to, authorized ..

634

Rockford, Ill.,

acquiring land for and extending public

building at, authorized .......

775

appropriation for .....

790, 1303

Rockhall, Md. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1081

Rockport, Me. ,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made..

1113

Rockwell, Alpheus A. ,

pension increased .

1439

Rockwell, Garrett P. ,

pension increased .

2726

Rockwell, Jacob,

granted honorable discharge..

2821

Rockwell, Matilda (widow),

pension increased .

1742

Rockwood, Aaron L.,

pension increased .

1975

Rockwood, Mary, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Rockwood, Moses S. ,

pension increased .

2204

Rocky River, Ohio,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made ..

1116

Rodefer, George W.,

pension increased .

2536

Rodeheaver, George H.,

pension increased .

2146

Rodenberger, William R.,

pension increased .

2620

Rodgers, Aug. F.,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment .

1393

Roe, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

2026

Roe, Samuel C.,

pension increased .

2340

Roebuck Lake, Miss. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1114

Roessler , Christian,

pension increased .

2498

Rogers, E. B.,

payment to .

2307

Rogers, Eliza (widow),

pension increased .

2076

Rogers, Eustace B.,

appropriation for allowance in accounts ... 1291

Rogers, George,

pension increased .

2024

Rogers, Josephine (widow),

pension increased .

1715

Rogers, Julius D.,

pension increased .

1569

Rogers, Maria (widow),

pension ...

2214

Rogers, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2569

Rogers, Ruth E. (widow),

pension increased .

2666

Rogers, Stephen H., pension increased .

... 2336

Rogers, Susan J. (widow),

pension...

2735

Rohr, Annie (widow), pension....

Page. 1523

Rolfe, Eugene W.,

pension increased .

2756

Rollins, Georgia A. (widow),

pension..

1496

Rome, Ga.,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing .

31

Rome, Italy, classification and salary of consul-general.. 99

appropriation for clerk hire...

294, 924

deficiency appropriation for quota, etc. ,

International Institute of Agricul-

ture .

635

Rome, N. Y.,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ..

774

appropriation for.

790

Rondout, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1077

Rone, Nathaniel H.,

pension increased.

1765

Roraback, George R.,

pension increased

2459

Rosario, Argentine Republic,

classification and salary of consul ..................... 100

Rosbrugh, Michael,

pension increased .

2440

Roschdiantzky, Frederick,

pension increased .

2287

Rose, Allan S.,

pension increased .

2615

Rose, Daniel M.,

pension increased .

1522

Rose, Henderson,

pension increased ...

1609

Rose, Joseph,

pension increased

2398

Roseberry, John S. ,

pension increased .

2332

Rosebud Agency, S..Dak.,
appropriation for Indian agent at . RosebudIndian Reservation, S. Dak.,
disposal of part of unallotted lands of.. reservation of school sections..
opening to entry; prices, sales, etc. town sites reserved ..

369, 1046
1230 1230 1230 1231

disposal of proceeds ; per capita distribu-

tion ...

1231

purchase of school sections for South Da-

kota ...

1231

appropriation for, and expenses .

1231

liability of United States limited .

1232

treaty rights of Indians retained ..

1232

Rosencrans, John L.,

pension increased .

2535

Ross, D. Laning,

pension increased .

2681

Ross, David,

pension increased .

2026

Ross, Edward,

pension increased ..

1987

Ross, Edward G. , Indian Allottee.

alienation restrictions removed .

345

Ross, George E.,

pension increased .

1512

Ross, George F.,

pension increased .

1487

Ross, Henry, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Ross, James,

pension increased

2167

Ross, John, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ....

357

3586

INDEX.

Ross, John J., pension increased .

Page. 2505

Ross, Joseph P. W. R. ,

granted honorable discharge.

2414

Ross, Maud W. , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

345

Ross, Wilkison B. ,

pension increased

2730

Ross, William I.,

pension increased

2431

Ross, William P. , of Bartlesville, Indian Al-

lottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

345

Ross, William P. , of Tahlequah, Indian Allottee,
alienation restrictions removed ...................... Rostraver Township, Pa.,
time extended for bridging Monongahela River between North Charleroi and .
Rothrock, Bronson, pension increased .
Rothrock, George W. , pension increased .

345
884 2073 2637

Rotterdam, Netherlands,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire..............

293, 924

Roubaix, France,

classification and salary of consul ....

100

Rouen, France,

classification and salary of consul ......

100

Rouge, Joseph,

pension increased

2634

Rouge River, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1098

Rouillard, Eliza, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

357

Rouillard, Julia, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Rouillard, Thomas, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ....

357

Roumania,

trade-marks convention with

2901

Roumania and Servia, appropriation for minister to . for secretary of legation.....

287, 917 287, 917

Round Valley Agency, Cal. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of..

333, 1022

Round Valley Indian Reservation , Cal.,

appropriation for removing obstructions ,

branch of Eel River..

333

correction ....

1022

for payment to Indians of, for lands erro-

neously entered .

1022

Rounds, Susan J. (widow) ,

pension..

1467

Rourk, Alice (widow),

pension..

1682

Rourke, Garrett,

pension increased

1651

Rouse, German M.,

payment to.

2412

Rouse, Mary S. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ...

373

Rouse, Oren S.,

pension increased .

2796

Rousseau, Esther,

claim referred to Court of Claims .

2408

Rout, James,

pension increased

2372

Rowan, John G.,

pension increased .

1532

Rowan, Thomas,

pension increased .

1795

Rowe, Emma (widow), pension increased .
Rowe, Samuel, pension increased
Rowe, William T., pension increased .
Rowell, Moses, pension increased
Royal Gorge, Arkansas River,

Page. 1435 2323 2464 2431

grant to Canon City, Colo. , public lands containing .
Royal, Luther M., pension increased
Royer, John A., pension increased .
Rubber Experimental Farm, lease of Colorado lands to P. F. U. Rubber
Company for.. Rubert, Martin A.,
pension increased .
Ruby, James S., pension increased .
Ruby Mountains Forest Reserve, Nev. , proclamation establishing
Ruch, Solomon R., pension increased .
Rucker, Margaret A. (widow), pension increased .
Ruddick, Scott, pension increased .

238 1843 1900
88 2693 2046 3198 1644 1911 2042

Ruddock, Nathan S.;

pension increased.

1897

Rühle, George,

pension increased

2536

Rules and Specifications for Grading Lumber Adopted by Various Lumber Manufacturing Associations of the United States,

protection of copyrighted matter appearing

in ....

836

Rules of the House ofRepresentatives, Digest of,

appropriation for compiling...

392, 938

Rulo, Zally, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

357

Rum ,

withdrawal for denaturing only.......

1250

Rumrill, Lucius,

pension increased .

2267

Runkel, Amos M. ,

pension increased .

1634

Runnels, Charles F.,

pension increased .

1800

Rupert, Idaho,

privileges of settlers, for entries under rec-

lamation act .

520

Ruppeenrsti,oJnosiencprhe, ased .

1718

Ruppert, Hon. Jacob, jr., permitted to sign conference report on

immigration act, as one of the House

Managers

2839

Rural Delivery, Postal Service,

appropriation for superintendent , assistant,

etc.

438, 984

for rent

440

for carriers ; substation clerks .

477, 1215

for supplies...

477, 1215

deficiency appropriation for.. 658, 668, 1392, 1404

salary of carriers ..

1215

leaves of absence ; payment to substi-

tutes

1215

substation clerks, allowance .

1215

water routes with power boats ..

1215

Rush, Otis E.,

pension increased .

2389

INDEX.

3587

Russ, Maggie D. (widow), pension increased .
Russell, Amanuel, pension increased .

Page. 1710
1471

Russell, Capt. Charles E.,

payment to estate of.

2410

Russell, Henry,

pension increased .

1631

Russell, James W.,

pension..

2234

Russell, Milton,

pension increased

2394

Russell, Ransom C. ,

pension increased.

2142

Russia , appropriation for ambassador to .
for secretary of embassy . for second secretary .... for third secretary..

286, 916 287, 917
287, 917 287, 918

Russo-Japanese War, report on Japanese naval medical and san-

itary features of, ordered printed .. 2831

Rust, Franklin,

pension increased .

2694

Ruston, La.,

construction of public building authorized

at; nominal site ....

778

appropriation for..

792, 1303

Ruth, James,

pension increased .

1658

Rutherford, Carrick,

pension increased .

1848

Rutherford, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased...

1654

Rutledge, Hugh R. ,

pension increased

2102

Rutter, John,

pension increased

2030

Ryan, Albert M.,

pension....

1966

Ryan, James W.,

pension increased

1454

Ryan, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

1546

Ryckman, William H. ,

pension increased .

2004

Rykard, Mary Isabella (widow),

pension increased .

2249

S.
S Street, D. C. ,
deficiency appropriation for extending .... Sabine Customs District, Tex.,
established; boundary. : Port Arthur port of entry, and Sabine
subport.... acceptance of Port Arthur Ship Canal ;
additional land .. use before transfer.
charges ... collector at Port Arthur ; salary, etc.
Sabine made subport with immediate transportation delivery privileges ..-
officers, duties, etc .. Sabine Pass, Tex. and La.,
appropriation for improvement of; contracts ..
Sabine River, La., preliminary examination of, to be made...
Sabine River, Tex., appropriation for improvement of......... for improvement of channel to Taylors Bayou; use for Port Arthur Ship Canal, etc.

641 1
302 302
302 303 303 303 303 303
1090 1113
739
1090

Sabine River, Tex.-Continued .

Page.

bridge authorized across, between Newton

County, Tex., and Calcasieu Parish,

La..

7

Sabine, Tex.,

made subport of entry....

302

granted immediate transportation delivery

privileges ..

303

Sac and Fox Indian Reservation , Iowa,

appropriation for Indian school ..

347, 1029

Sac and Fox Indians of the Mississippi,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 363, 1045

per capita payment to .

363

Sac and Fox Indians of the Mississippi, Iowa,

may bring suit against the United States

and the Sac and Fox Indians in Okla-

homa ..

1055

Sac and Fox Indians ofthe Mississippi in Oklahoma,

claims of Sac and Fox Indians in Iowa

against, to be brought in Court of

Claims...

1055

Sac and Fox Indians of the Missouri,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 348, 1031

treaty funds to credit of; per capita

payments ..

1031

fee-simple patents may be issued to , allot-

tees in Kansas and Nebraska ..

349

to certain allottees

349

surplus lands to be allotted to members born since completion of allotments . 349
payment of per capita to , in Richardson

County, Nebr..

262

appropriation for drainage assessments on "

lands of .

263

shares of minors, etc. , in trust funds may be

paid to guardians.

356

Sackett, George C.,

pension increased .

1739

Sacramento River, Cal.,

appropriation for lighting .

713, 1320

for improvement of..

1107

diversion of, for irrigation, authorized ; con-

ditions ..

185

preliminary examination of, to be made to

Feather River..

1112

Saeger, Milton A. ,

pension increased ..

1613

Safety Appliances, Railway,

appropriation for enforcing use of... 705, 1312

deficiency appropriation for enforcing .

31

investigation directed on necessity for au-

tomatic brake control , etc ..

838

Sag Harbor, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1077
Saginaw River, Mich

appropriation for improvement of ......... 1097

Saigon, Cochin China,

classification and salary of consul...

100

Sail Vessels,

license required of masters of, over 700 gross tons, etc.; penalty for violations 864

Sailing Vessels,

space, etc. , requirements for emigrant pas-

sengers on ...

910

Saint Andrews Bay, Fla.,

bridge authorized across , in Washington

County...

18

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1112

Saint Ann's Infant Asylum, D. C.,

appropriation for care, etc. , of children in :

contract....

... 512, 1153

Saint Anthony's Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded ...

870

3588

INDEX .

Saint Augustine, Fla.,

Page.

deed of"The Lines " for school purposes to

Saint Johns County .

913

Saint Charles County, Mo.,

Saint John's School, Okla.,

Page.

reservation of lands for, on Osage Reserva-

tion; deed ..

542

Saint Johnsbury, Vt.,

bridge authorized across Missouri River,

appropriation for fish hatchery ; auxiliary

between Saint Louis County and... 818

station....

721

Saint Charles, Mo.,

Saint Jones River, Del.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized

780

appropriation for

793 , 1303

Saint Christopher, West Indies,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1081 preliminary examination of, to be made.... 1112 Saint Joseph, Mich., appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1096

classification and salary of consul .. . . . . . . 100 Saint Joseph, Mo..

St. Clair, Benjamin,

limit of cost increased , public building ... 773

pension increased

2378

appropriation for..

789

Saint Clair River, Mich.,

Saint Joseph River, Mich. ,

preliminary examination to be made of channel between Russell Island and

appropriation for improvement of......

1096

dam authorized across, near Berrien

Grand Point ...

1114

Springs, Mich..

102

Saint Cloud Electric Power Company,

Mottville, Mich ..

1254

may dam, etc., Mississippi River, Minn... 537 Saint Josephs Bay, Fla.,

Saint Croix River, Minn. and Wis., appropriation for improvement of..

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1112 1101 Saint Juliens Creek Naval Magazine, Va.,

Saint Cyprian's Church, D. C., taxes refunded ..

appropriation for galvanized-iron store-

869

house...

567

Saint Cyr, Alexander , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to
Saint Cyr, David, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..

Saint Louis Bay, Lake Superior, 356 appropriation for lighting channel..... 713, 1320
Saint Louis County, Mo. , 356 bridge authorized across Missouri River

Saint Cyr, Louis , Indian Allottee,

between Saint Charles County and.. 818

fee-simple title to .

376 Saint Louis Electric Bridge Company,

Saint Etienne, France,

may bridge Mississippi River at Saint

classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Louis, Mo ....

892

Saint Francis River, Ark.,

Saint Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Rail-

appropriation for improvement of.......

1093

way Company,

bridge authorized across, in Clay County .. 19, 20 granted right of way through lands of dam

Cross and Poinsett counties ..

819

No. 1, Upper White River, Ark .... 1283

Madison , Ark....

90 Saint Louis, Mo. ,

Saint Gall, Switzerland,

classification and salary of consul -general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire....

294, 924

appropriation for warehouse, Indian sup-

plies .....

329, 1018

for assistant treasurer's office ..

413, 960

Saint Helena Parish, S. C.,

free school fund transferred to South Caro-

lina ..

893

appropriation for.

893

for assay office at .

416, 962

limit of cost increased for site and building,

new post-office..

776

appropriation for..

791, 1303

Saint Hyacinthe, Quebec, classification and salary of consul .....

bridge authorized across Mississippi River

100

at .

892

St. John, Harriet E. (widow), pension...
St. John, Montezuma, pension increased .

may bridge Mississippi River

461

1597

acquire property in Illinois and Missouri

for approaches, etc ..

462

2401

time extended for ..

883

Saint John, New Brunswick, classification and salary of consul ..
Saint John River Commission,
appropriation for expenses of.. Saint Johns County, Fla.,
deed of "The Lines " for school purposes to.

| Saint Louis School, Okla.,

100 reservation of lands for, on Osage Reserva-

tion; deed ..

542

292 Saint Lucia Inlet, Fla.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1112 913 Saint Luke Parish, S. C.,

Saint Johns Light and Power Company.

granted right of way through Fort Marion

Reservation , Fla..

1219

free school fund transferred to South Caro-

lina ...

893

appropriation for..

893

Saint Johns, Newfoundland,

Saint Mark's Parish, D. C.,

classification and salary of consul ..

100 taxes refunded

869

Saint Johns, Quebec, classification and salary of consul ..

Saint Marks River, Fla., 100 preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1112

Saint Johns River, Fla.,

Saint Marys Falls Ship Canal,

appropriation for lighting.

713, 1320

for improvement of, Jacksonville to the

settlement of claim against Michigan for

constructing, etc..

187

ocean..

739, 1086

at Orange Mills Flats .

1086

at Jacksonville ..

1086

at Volusia Bar..

1086

preliminary examination of, to be made

from Jacksonville to Sanford ..

1112

Saint Marys River, Mich.,

appropriation for enforcing anchorage regu-

lations ...

702, 1309

for improvement of..

739

for improvement of Middle and West

Neebish channels ..

737, 1344

Sanford to Lake Harney...

1112

for improvement of, at the falls..

1345

INDEX.

3589

Saint Marys River , Mich.-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for construction of new lock

and canal at the falls ; contract ...... 1098

Salesmen, Traveling or City,

Page.

priority, in bankruptcy, of wages due.... 267

Saline River, Ark. ,

work to proceed without prejudice to

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1111

litigation ....

1098 Salisbury, Henry G.,

proceedings to acquire lands and waters

pension increased .

1492

necessary to project ..

1098 Salisbury, N. C.,

purchase from owners.

1098 appropriation for approaches to national

condemnation proceedings; apprais-

cemetery ...

259

al, etc...

1099 acquiring site and erecting public building

suits for damages in Court of Claims .. 1099

at, authorized ..

780

remedial works for Michigan Lake Superior

appropriation for..

793, 1303

Power Company ....

1100 Sallade, Thomas W. ,

Secretary of Commerce and Labor to make

pension increased .

1679

rules for anchorage, etc. , in .

136 Sallee, William T. ,

penalty for violations modified

136 pension increased .

2360

Saint Matthew's Church, D. C., taxes refunded ...

Salmon Fisheries, Alaska (see also Alaska Sal-

869

mon Fisheries) ,

Saint Michael Canal, Alaska,

appropriation for protecting..

appropriation for improvement of; con-

regulations for protecting..

tracts ..

1109 Salmon River Forest Reserve, Idaho,

721, 1329 478

Saint Michaels, Alaska,

proclamation establishing

3250

inspector of hulls and boilers provided for

Salmon, Sarah (widow),

port of...

106 pension increased .

2385

Saint Michaels, Azores,

Salsberry, James S.,

classification and salary of consul ...................... 100 pension increased .

2237

Saint Paul, Minn.,

Salt Lake City, Utah,

construction of bridge authorized across

Mississippi River between Fort

Snelling and .

66

appropriation for construction..

1346

control of expenses of bridge across Missis-

deficiency appropriation for public building ...
may construct boulevard through Fort Douglas Reservation..
salary of surveyor of customs increased

638
927 . 452

sippi River to Fort Snelling from... 1418 Saltar, Martha E. (widow),

examination, etc. , on use for power of sur-

pension increased .

1496

plus waters of the Mississippi be- · Salter, Horace,

tween Minneapolis and....

456 pension..

2072

limit of cost increased , public building.

773 Saltillo , Mexico,

;

appropriation for..

789, 1303 classification and salary of consul ...

100

Saint Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Rail-

Saluda River, S. C. ,

way Company,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

homesteaders erroneously entering indem-

Salvador, Honduras and

nity grants to, allowed credit , etc. ,

appropriation for minister to..

916

on making new entries ....

120

for secretary of legation....

917

Saint Paul's English Lutheran Church, D. C. ,

Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and

taxes refunded..

869 appropriation for minister to..

286

Saint Petersburg , Russia,

for secretary of legation..............

287

classification and salary of consul-general.. 99 Samoa,

Saint Pierre, Saint Pierre Island, classification and salary of consul..
Saint Stephen, New Brunswick,

acknowledgment of deeds, etc. , affecting

100

lands in District of Columbia or Ter-

ritories..

.... 552

classification and salary of consul ..

100 Samoan Claims,

Saint Thomas, West Indies, classification and salary of consul ..
Sakonnet Harbor , R. I.,

deficiency appropriation for paying Ger- .

100

many .

635

Denmark.

635

appropriation for improvement of........ 1075

France ..

635

Salaries,

Sampson, Franklin,

computation of monthly and yearly.

763 pension increased

2594

Salaries and Allowances, Post-Office Depart-

Samuels, Joseph, Indian Allottee,

ment,

fee-simple title to.....

357

appropriation for superintendent , assistant ,

etc.

437,982

for assistant superintendents; per diem,

etc.

471 , 1210

San Angelo, Tex.;

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for.

794, 1303

Salat, Jacob,

San Antonio, Tex.,

pension increased ...

2613 appropriation for land, military post near.. 253

Salem, Mass.,

enlargement of public building at , author-

fog signal established at Baker Island ..... 322

ized ..

775

Salem, Oreg.,

appropriation for..

790, 1303

appropriation for Indian school ............. 369, 1045 San Bernardino Forest Reserve, Cal.,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ...

775

appropriation for.

790

permit to occupy land, etc. , for power

plants in, by Edison Electric Com-

pany .

163

Salem River, N. J., appropriation for improvement of......

San Carlos Agency , Ariz., 1080 appropriation for Indian agent at ........ 332, 1021

VOL XXXIV, PT 363

3590

INDEX .

San Diego, Cal.,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of harbor . 1106

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

778

appropriation for....

... 792, 1303

preliminary examination to be made of har-

bor entrance.

1112

San Diego County, Cal.,

deficiency appropriation for resurvey of

certain townships .......

120

time extended for making settlement, etc. ,

on public lands in certain townships

of...

1052

San Diego Quarantine Station,

appropriation for fence...

1307

San Francisco, Cal.,

appropriation for post exchange, Presidio

army hospital..

253

for dispatch agent.

289, 919

for warehouse, Indian supplies .. for mint at..

329, 1018 414, 961

for reimbursing officers and men of Navy. and Marine Corps for losses by fire.. 554

for pneumatic tube, etc. , mail service . 472, 1211

for public building, custom-house ... heating, etc. , plant.. subtreasury. additional, for site .
for quarantine station . for immigrant station , Angel Island .

699, 1303 699 1303 1303 701
710

for repairing monument , in national cem-

etery..

1347

for reconstructing military prison .

1348

deficiency appropriation for mint ..

31, 665

for post-office , etc.

638

for earthquake damages , post-office and

court-house ..

639

mint building..

639

subtreasury.

639

appraisers' stores ..

639

acquiring land for, and extending subtreas-

ury at, authorized ..

775

appropriation for..

790, 1303

cooperation with mayor, relief of earth-

quake, etc. , sufferers ..

827

minor coins to be coined at mint ; distribu-

tion..

132

preliminary examination to be made of har-

bor for removing rocks ..

1111

San Francisco Collection District, Cal. ,

entry, etc. , of vessels for petroleum, per-

mitted at San Luis Obispo , Port

Harford, and Monterey..

23

San Francisco Earthquake, appropriation for naval and postal service . 168

for reproducing land records destroyed

by

429, 1336

for rebuilding light stations, etc. , dam-

aged by..

710

deficiency appropriation for repairing, etc. ,

aids to navigation destroyed by..

842

for internal-revenue cutter service ..

638

for repairs to public buildings ..

639

for losses, California Débris Commission. 644

for replacing military stores destroyed

by..

645

for Marine Corps losses....

650

for reproducing surveyor-general's plats,

etc., destroyed by..

653

for postal emergencies ...

658

purchase of additional army supplies to

issue to sufferers from....

827

cooperation with State and municipal.

authorities :...

827

San Francisco Earthquake-Continued. use of naval vessels, revenue cutters, etc., authorized..
appropriation for purchases, etc ..... made available for medical supplies .
for further relief; extra expenses....

Page.
827 827 827 828

use of relief fund extended to personal

services, etc...

644

change in weighing of mails authorized on

account of..

830

San Gabriel Forest Reserve, Cal. ,

permit to occupy lands, etc. , for power .

plants in, by Edison Electric Com-

pany .

163

San Gabriel Timber Land Reserve, Cal. , right of way through, to Los Angeles ......
San Isabel Forest Reserve, Colo . ,
proclamation enlarging.. San Jacinto Forest Reserve, Cal.,
proclamation enlarging ..

801 3083 3276

San Joaquin River, Cal., appropriation for lighting.. for improvement of harbor..

713, 1320 1106

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1112 San Jose, Cal. ,

deficiency appropriation for repairs to post-

office ...

639

San Jose, Costa Rica,

classification and salary of consul .............

100

San Juan de Mayaras Hill, Cuba,

use of transport " Sumner " to convey Com-

mission, etc., to dedication of battle

monuments ..

821

San Juan del Norte, Nicaragua,

classification and salary of consul..

99

San Juan Forest Reserve, Colo . ,

proclamation establishing .. enlarging

3070 3308

San Juan Pah Ute Indians, Utah,

appropriation for lands and sheep for...... 376

San Juan, Porto Rico,

appropriation for land, post cemetery..

741

for improvement of harbor; contracts . 1110

for Army hospital....

1172

construction of public building authorized

at..

777

appropriation for.

791, 1303

San Juan Ridge, Cuba,

use of transport " Sumner" to convey Com-

mission, etc. , to dedication of battle

monuments

821

San Luis Obispo, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

contracts ....

1106

entry, etc., of vessels for petroleum permitted at...
San Luis Obispo Forest Reserve, Cal., .
proclamation establishing.. San Marcos, Tex.,

23+ 3217

acquiring site for public building at, authorized ...
appropriation for. San Mateo Forest Resevve, N. Mex. ,
proclamation establishing.. San Pablo Bay, Cal.,
appropriation for. improvement of........

784 796 3249
736

San Pedro, Cal., appropriation for improvement of harbor 736, 1344

preliminary examination to be made of

breakwaters ..

1112

San Pedro Military Reservation, Cal.,

right of way granted to Los Angeles Inter-

Urban Railway Company..

915

San Salvador, Salvador, classification and salary of consul-general : 99

INDEX.

3591

Sanborn, Corydon W. , pension increased .
Sanborn, Henry, pension increased .

Page. 2114
1721

Sanborn, True, jr.,

pension increased .

2721

Sancrainte, Charles F. ,

pension increased .

2320

Sandakan, Borneo,

classification and salary of consul..

100

Sanders, Harriet P. (widow),

pension...

2139

Sanders, John V. ,

pension increased

1440

Sanders, Joseph B. ,

pension increased .

2017

Sanders, Martha (widow),

land patent issued to ..

2822

Sanders, Mary S. (widow),

pension increased

2550

Sanders, Seldon R. ,

pension increased

2793

Sanders, William,

pension increased .

1758

Sanderson, Helen C. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1901

return from President requested of bill to

pension ..

2833

Sanderson, Job B.,

pension increased .

2015

Sands, John H. H. ,

pension increased .

1698

Sandusky, Emanuel,

pension increased .

2606

Sandusky, Ohio,
appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 739, 1094,1345

Sandy Bay, Cape Ann, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor of

refuge; contracts .

739, 1074

Sandy Hook, N. J. , Army Proving Ground,

appropriation for current expenses .. 464, 1060

for expenses of officers .

464 , 1061

for repairs to railroad tracks..

464, 1061

for repairs, etc.; fire protection . for barracks for enlisted men..

732, 1339 732

for shops, power plant, etc. Sandy Lake Reservoir Dam, Minn.,
appropriation for reconstructing . Sanford, Aaron C. ,
pension increased .

732, 1339 1105 2780

Sanford, Martha E. (widow) ,

pension increased ...

2603

Sanitarium for Consumptives,

land granted to Minnesota for..

195

Sanitary Bureau, International,

appropriation for annual contribution .. 292, 921

Sannar, Jacob,

pension increased .

1892

Sanspeur, Anthony,

pension increased .

2067

Santa Barbara Forest Reserve, Cal.,

proclamation modifying area of......

3238

right of way through, to Los Angeles ..

801

Santa Cruz, Cal.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

782

appropriation for........

794

Santa Fe, N. Mex.,

appropriation for Indian school .

359, 1040

for additional buildings, Indian school. 359

convention to make constitution for Arizona

to meet in..

279

to be capital of State of Arizona till 1915 .. 280

Santa Monica, Cal. ,

Page.

appropriation for expenses Volunteer Soldiers' Home; additions ...... 742, 1354

deficiency appropriation for Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ..

1401

Santa Rosa, Cal.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized...

778

appropriation for .

792, 1303

Santa Rosa Quarantine Station, Fla.,

appropriation for reconstruction , etc ..... 1307

Santee River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of....... 1084

Santee Sioux Indian Allottees, Nebr. ,

fee-simple patents authorized to certain .. 357 Santee Sioux Indians, Nebraska,

payment of share in Sioux fund ; minors,

etc.

356

Santiago de Cuba,

classification and salary of consul..

99

appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

Santiago de Cuba Battlefield,

use of transport " Sumner" to convey commission to dedication of battle monu-

ments at.

821

Santo Domingo (see also Dominican Repub-

lic),

appropriation for minister resident and consul -general to..
for secretary of legation . proclamation prohibiting export of arms ,
etc. , to .

287 287
3183

Santos, Brazil, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire..
Saphar, William, honorable discharge granted ..

99 293, 924
2220

Sar Sarp Kin, Margaret, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

379

Sarasota Bay, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1086

Saratoga Springs, N. Y.,

appropriation for public building .

1303

limit of cost increased, public building... 773

Sarnia, Ontario,

classification and salary of consul ......

100

Sargent, George,

pension increased .

1514

Sargent, Samuel P.,

pension increased

2015

Sarlls, Edward,

pension increased .

1583

Sarvis, John,

pension increased

1589

Sasanoa River, Me.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1073

Satterlee, Nelson R.,

pension increased .

2291

Satterthwait , William H.,

pension increased ..

1492

"Saturn " vs. " Newchwang ,"

appropriation for paying costs of defendant

in suit of..

1291

Saugatuck, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1097

Saugatuck River, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1076

Saugerties, N. Y. , appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1077

Sauk Rapids, Minn., time extended for dam across Mississippi

River, at

1058

Sauk Rapids Water Power Company.

time extended for dam across Mississippi

River, by....

1058

3592

INDEX .

Saul, George C., pension increased

Page. Sawyer, Moses H. ,

Page.

2706 pension increased .

1454

Sault Sainte Marie, Mich.,

Sawyer, Nathaniel C.,

construction of public building authorized

pension increased

2042

at....

777 Saxe, George,

appropriation for..

791 , 1303 pension..

1697

part of Fort Brady Reservation reserved

Saxton, Amasa B. ,

for public building .

190 pension increased

2337

Sault Sainte Marie, Ontario,

Sayles, William B.,

classification and salary of consul .

100 pension increased .

2442

Saumty, Emma, or Tah lah to ti, Kiowa Al-

Saylor, Thomas J. ,

lottee, may sell part of allotment..

pension increased .

2471

364 Scandinavian Evangelical Lutheran Little Mis-

Saunders, Charles B. , pension increased .
Saunders, Rowland, pension increased
Saunders, Walter, pension increa ed
Saunderson, Jamis T. , alias Sanderson, pension increased .
Savage, George W.,

souri River Congregation,

2678 lands for cemetery granted to, in Butte

County, S. ak.

122

2675 Scandlyn, William T. ,

pension..

1671

1989 Scannell, Michael,

pension increased

1824

2162 Scarlet Fever, D. C.,

provisions to prevent spread of..

889

pension increased .

2374 Scattergood, Joseph,

Savage, John,

pension increased

2203

pension increased

1488 Schadler, Frank,

Savage, Russell,

pension increased

2542

military record corrected ....

2219 , Schaffner, Bernhard,

Savannah, Ga.,

pension....

1558

appropriation for improvement of; con-

Schaffner, Daniel,

tracts; dredge, jetties, etc. 739, 1084, 1345 pension...

2697

for quarantine station; power boat .

1307 Schedules of Interstate Railway Rates, etc.,

for revenue cutter.....

1309 provisions for public inspection of, etc ... 586

for improvement of waterway between

Scheele, Minnie (widow),

Fernandina, Fla . , and .

1085 pension.

2483

deficiency appropriation for marine hos-

Scheldt, Emilie (widow),

pital...

639 pension increased .

1726

revenue cutter authorized for duty at, etc. 1010 .

appropriation for.....

1309

Savannah River,

appropriation for lighting...

713, 1320

Schenectady, N. Y.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for..

793, 1304

for improvement of, below Augusta..

1085 Scherer, Frank,

above Augusta..

1085 pension increased .

2380

dam, etc. , authorized across, at Anderson- ·

Schloesser, Philip,

ville Shoals .

1240 pension increased .

2020

Calhoun Falls ..

1240 Schlosser, Christian,

Cherokee Shoals .

1255 pension increased .

2082

Gregg Shoals . Hattons Ford

876 Schlosser, Henry,

1240 pension increased .

2450

McDaniel Shoals .

1238 Schmidt, J. F.,

Middleton Shoals:

1239 payment to.

2662

Trotters Shoals .. Turner Shoals ..

1241 Schmidtke, Amelia (widow) ,

1239 pension..

2752

1two dams , etc. , authorized across, above Schmitt, Nannie L. (widow), Augusta, Ga.. 1000 pension increased. 1871

preliminary examination of, to be made,

Schmutz, George S.,

below Augusta..

1112 pension increased

2551

Savannah River Power Company,

Schneller, John J. ,

may dam Savannah River at Gregg Shoals. 876 pension increased

2163

Savings Banks , etc. , D. C.,

Schnure, Mary Jane (widow),

all , to make and publish reports as required

pension increased ..

1836

of national banks ...

458 Schofield, John W. ,

power of Comptroller to take possession... 458 pension increased .

2061

semiannual reports from foreign companies 458 School Attendance, D. C.,

printing publications ..

459 provisions forcompulsory.

219

examinations by comptroller..

459 School Street NW. , D. C., .

Sawtooth Forest Reserve, Idaho,

condemnation proceedings for extending. 882

proclamation establishing

3068

appropriation for.

882

enlarging Sawyer, Mrs. Augusta H. ,
deficiency appropriation for..

3260 | Schooling, Thomas H. B. ,

pension increased .

2323

1391 Schools, D. C. (see Public Schools , D. C. ).

Sawyer, Hannah A. (widow), pension increased .

Schoonmaker and Rice, 1718 refund of fines imposed on certainbarges .. 2361

Sawyer, Joel M., pension increased .

Schoonmaker, Moses,

1546 pension increased .

1470

INDEX .

3593

Schoske, Mary (widow), pension..
Schramm, Theodor, pension increased .

Page. 2469
1748

Schreiner, Charles J. ,

pension increased .

2652

Schroeders, Edgar,

pension increased

1684

Schroyer, George W.,

duties refunded ..

2816

Schue, Nicholas,

pension increased

2198

Schultz, Frederick,

pension increased .

1464

Schultz, Jacob,

pension increased

2077

Schultz, Ludwig,

pension increased

2,669

Schultz, Martin,

pension increased

2264

Schwab, Barbara E. (widow),

pension increased .

2403

Schwab, Louis,
payment to. Schweizer, Gottlieb,
pension increased Schwenker, George,
payment to . Schwenker, O. W.,
payment to.

2662 2530 2662 2662

Scientific Literature, International Catalogue

of, appropriation for cooperation in work of. 704, 1310

Scott, Alexander M.,

pension increased

1553

Scott, Cyrus W.,

pension increased

2807-

Scott, Eliza M. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2529

Scott, George R.,

pension increased

1895

Scott, George S.,

pension increased ..

1760

Scott, James,

pension increased ...

1971

Scott, John, alias William John Stewart,

pension increased

1523

Scott, John M.,

pension increased .

1512

Scott, John W.,

pension increased .

1821

Scott, Joseph,

pension increased

2190

Scott, Joseph E.,

pension increased

1666

Scott, Manson B. ,

pension increased

1622

Scott, Mary E.,

pension...

1586

Scott, Mary H. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2058

Scott, Robert A. ,

pension increased

2166

Scott, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1883

Scott, Sarah C. A. (widow),

pension increased.

2246

Scott, W. T.,

title to certain lands in Texas relinquished

to heirs of..

1285

Scranton, Clara N. (widow),

pension....

1878

Scroggs, Joseph A. ,

pension increased

2334

Scrogum, James, pension increased .
Scrutchfield, James A. , pension increased .
Scudder, Caroline D. (widow) , pension increased .
Scullen, William H. , pension increased'.

Page. 1524
1997 1756 2358

Scuppernong River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1083

"Sea Lion," Foreign-Built Dredge,

to be documented as vessel of the United

States...

204

Sea Travel, Army,

allowance to officers, etc., of expenses,

when under orders.

247

land rates for travel in Philippines, Hawaii,

waters of United States and Alaska . 247

Sea Walls, Fortifications,
appropriation for constructing... Seabold, Josiah H.,
pension increased

462, 1059 1796

Seabury, J. Morgan,

pension increased .

1984

Seacoast Artillery, Army,

appropriation for altering, etc insular possessions . .
for boats for.
Seacoast Batteries,

463, 1060 1062 1171

appropriation for constructing, in Hawa-

iian and Philippine Islands ..

1061

Seacoast Cannon, Army,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture ,

etc.

1059

insular possessions .

1061

Seacoast Defenses,

appropriation for barracks and 'quarters for

artillery ...

1348

Seal Fisheries (see also Alaskan Seal Fisheries),

appropriation for protecting .. deficiency appropriation for janitors . Seal, Isaac N., pension increased ....

702, 1309 42, 1393
1767

Seal, United States Commissioners,

to be provided; use, etc.

546

Sealer of Weights and Measures, D. C. ,

appropriation for, assistants, etc ..

.485, 1122

duties, receipts from farmers, etc. , street

markets ..

485

guaranty of bonding company allowed .

94

Sealey, George P., pension increased .

, 1956

Seamen,

enticing intoxicated persons on board, etc.,

to serve as, punishable ...

551

punishment for inducing intoxicated or drugged, to go on board vessel............ 551

extended to high seas and navigable

waters ....

1233

to agree to serve on vessel.

551

detaining on board, etc ..

551

aiding and abetting ..

551

wages provisions, extended to oyster ves-

sels .

551

Seamen, American,

appropriation for life-saving testimonials,

rescuing shipwrecked .

290, 919

forrelief and protection ofshipwrecked . 295, 925

deficiency appropriation for relief, etc.,

of..

27, 667, 1405

for services to vessels and .

48, 667, 1403

Searles, Samuel W.,

pension increased .

2392

3594

INDEX .

Searchlights for Harbor Defense, appropriation for purchase, etc. for insular possessions ...

Page. 462, 1058
1061

Sears, Alfred F.,

pension increased .

1819

Sears, William R. ,

pension increased .

2302

Seattle, Wash.,

appropriation for assay office at .

416, 962

for master, in case of George Edward Adams, embezzling gold dust from. 755

Seaver, Orlena F. (widow) .

pension increased .

1465

Seaver, Robert A. ,

pension increased .

2056

Seavey, Daniel L.,

pension increased .

2488

Sebewaing River, Mich. ,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1098

Secheverell, Hamilton,

pension increased

1521

Second Assistant Postmaster-General,

appropriation for, superintendents, etc. 437, 983

for postal service, office of

472, 1211

for transportation ...

472, 1211

for rent of buildings for repair shops , sup-

plies, etc ...
for power, light, etc. for installation ... ' for railroad transportation..
reductions in rates, etc ..

1211 1211
1211 472, 1212
1212

fines for nondelivery on time by rail-

roads ..

472, 1212

for freight on postal cards, etc.; with-

drawal from mails at weighing peri-

ods ..

473, 1212

for railway post-office car service . 473, 1212

for Railway Mail Service

473, 1212

for foreign mails ...

475, 1214

for travel and miscellaneous expenses . 475, 1214

Second- Class Mail Matter,

appropriation for counsel, suits affecting. 476, 1214

for ascertaining and report on amount of,

handled ....

473

joint commission of Congress to investigate

and report on.....

477, 1420

appropriation for expenses..

477

printing of document on, ordered ; distri-

bution ....

1426

report of Postal Commission on, ordered

printed ....

2838

Second Street NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extend-

ing, from Elm to Bryant ..

845

appropriation for...

845

Secret Service Division, Treasury Department, appropriation for chief, clerks, etc .. 409, 955

Secretaries of Embassies and Legations, appropriations for salaries ..

287, 917

Secretaries of Executive Departments,

compensation established .

993

Secretary of Agriculture,

appropriation for, Assistant, clerks, etc. 670, 1256

for charwomen , laborers, etc ..

670, 1256

for printing and binding Annual Report

of..

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation..

1392

duties of, agricultural experiment stations

in States and Territories ..

63

meat inspection regulations .. over national forests ...

674, 1260 1269

made a trustee, Foundation for Promotion

of Industrial Peace .

1242

Secretary of Agriculture-Continued .

Page.

may use part of Fort Keogh Reservation,

Mont. , as experimental horse-breed-

ing station .

252

printing of annual reports of beet-sugar in-

dustry, 1905 ; future reports discre-

tionary .

839

to issue rules, permits, etc., for excavating

for antiquities on public lands under

his jurisdiction .

225

rules for Grand Canyon Forest Reserve

wild animal breeding place .

607

rules, etc. , rights of way in certain forest

reserves, California ...

166

regulations to carry out pure-food act.. 768

to prepare list of agricultural lands in for- est reserves for homestead entries.. 233

to submit detailed statement of persons,

expenses, etc. , of meat-inspection

law .

1265

detailed statements of annual receipts

and expenditures .

1282

to supervise, etc. , new edition of Diseases

of the Horse ...

1425

Secretary of Agriculture, Annual Report,

appropriation for printing and binding . 760, 1367

Secretary of Commerce and Labor, appropriation for, Assistant, clerks, etc. 441 , 987

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation ..

1392

appointment, etc. , of immigrant inspectors,

etc. , by .

906

special employees ; expenses .

906

duties enforcing act regulating salmon ,

etc., fisheries in Alaska ..

480

under general bridge act .

85

under immigration act..

898

made a trustee , Foundation for Promotion

of Industrial Peace .

1242

may convey former Hog Island, Va. , light

station to Broadwater Club ..

997

may waive collection of fees for inspection

of foreign steam vessels .

68

to direct consolidation of enrollment and

license of domestic vessels .

136

to enforce illegal landing, etc., of sponges

law .

314

to enforce Philippine shipping act..

155

to investigate condition of woman and child

workers ...

866

patents issued to officials for inventions

in Government use .

1422

to make regulations to carry out pure-food

act ..

768

for anchorage, etc. , in Saint Marys River. 136

to prevent illegal fishing by aliens in

Alaska .

264

to prescribe, etc. , bond of shipping com-

missioners

137

to prescribe fishways on dam, Crow Wing

River, Minn...

296

Mississippi River, Clearwater, Minn .

266

Morrison County, Minn ...

210

Rock River, Ill., north and south

branches .

156

to prescribe lights, etc. , on bridge across Arkansas River, Van Buren, Ark ... 22

to prescribe lights, fishways, etc. , on

dam across Bear River, Tishomingo

County, Miss

131

Coosa River, Ala ..

184

Mississippi River, Bemidji, Minn

210

Pend d'Oreille River, Wash ..

206

Tennessee River, Muscle Shoals , Ala ... 53

INDEX .

3595

Secretary of Commerce and Labor-Cont'd. to prescribe rules, etc. , governing aids to navigation . to use vessels and supplies for relief of earthquake sufferers .

Page. 324 827

Secretary of State, appropriation for, Assistants, clerks, etc. 402, 948

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation..

1371

authorized to issue additional Benjamin

Franklin memorial medals ...

615

to issue temporary passports to persons declaring intention to become citizens . 1228
to prepare plan and estimates for consular buildings, China, Korea, and Japan . 292
Secretary of State John Hay, proclamation announcing death of ........ 3112

Secretary of the Interior,

appropriation for, Assistants, clerks, etc.. 427, 973

for completing work of Commission to

Five Civilized Tribes...

340

for dam , Rio Grande, under irrigation

convention with Mexico..

1357

further allotment from reclamation

fund

1357

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation ..

1387

for completing work of Commission to

Five Civilized Tribes...

39

duties allotting lands to Stockbridge and

Munsee Indians..

382

allotments, etc. , Columbia and Colville

Reservation , Wash....

55

disposing irrigable lands on Yakima Res-

ervation , Wash..

53

distributing lands, etc. , to Osages ..

540

final disposition of affairs of Five Civi-

lized Tribes...

137

opening Blackfeet Indian Reservation to

settlement, etc ..

1035

Colville Reservation , Wash..

80

Kiowa, Comanche, and Apache pasture

and wood reserves, Oklahoma ..

213

part of Lower Brule Reservation

124

over relinquished lands of Jicarilla In-

dians, New Mexico....

1413

permits for rights of way, forest reserves, California, to Edison Electric Com-

pany .

163

under withdrawals for town sites , etc. ,

under reclamation act ....

116

may apportion pro rata share of tribal funds

to individual Indians ; conditions .. 1221
may authorize leasing of large areas of lands in New Mexico , if deemed advisable . 460

may cancel certain patents for allotments,

Devils Lake Reservation .................

361

may issue fee-simple patents to competent

Indian allottees .

183

may lease lands for buffalo pasture, South Dakota ..
may permit teachers, etc., in Alaska to assign pay..
to approve location, etc. , of right of way for irrigation, etc. , in Colorado ..

61. 824 1227

to cause repayment to homestead entrymen

excess of lawful purchase money . 1248

to declare certain lands in forest reserves

open to homestead entry...

233

to investigate claims of Chinook, etc. , In-

dians ...

369

claims of Pottawatomies of Wisconsin..

380

to issue rules, permits, etc. , for excavati

for antiquities on public lands unde

his jurisdiction ...

225

Secretary ofthe Interior-Continued. to issue leases, etc. , in Yellowstone Park.. to lease lands, La Plata County , Colo. , to P. F. U. Rubber Company as experimental rubber farm .......... to prescribe rules, etc. , for control of Mesa Verde Park, Colo .... to reappraise suburban lots, Port Angeles, Wash., town site...
to report on reduction of pension agents to one agency..
to sell lands in Dakota County, Minn. , to Minnesota...
to set aside town sites on lands of Kiowas, etc. , Oklahoma..
to subdivide and sell certain lands in
Washington..

Page. 207
89 617 167 1407 78 80 229

Secretary of the Navy,

appropriation for, Assistant, clerks, etc .. 422, 968

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation .

1383

authorized to pay from lump appropria-

tions classified employees at navy-

yards, etc.; report...

1383

duties of, in cases of hazing at Naval

Academy..

104

notifying of vacancies and appointment

of midshipmen....

578

may accept certified checks as guaranty

for bids and contracts for supplies;

amount...

841

gift of sailboat for midshipmen at Naval

Academy...

916

may deliver condemned historic metal to

Pocahontas Bell Association for

Jamestown Exposition ....

1424

records of armed vessels of Revolution in

Executive Departments to be trans-

ferred to....

579

to approve, etc. , plans for Great Lakes

Naval Training Station...

567

to define anchorage grounds, Hampton

Roads, for Jamestown Exposition . 1383

to direct seizures of vessels, etc. , illegally

fishing in Alaska...

264

to loan vessel to Philippine government for

nautical schools ...

817

to present bell of late sloop of war Ger-

mantown" to Site and Relic Society,

Germantown, Pa ...

828

to serve on Barry Monument Commission . 224

John Paul Jones Monument Commission. 224

to transfer " Bancroft " to Revenue-Cutter

Service ...

702

to use naval vessels and supplies for relief

of earthquake sufferers....

827

Secretary ofthe President,

appropriation for, assistants, clerks, etc .. 400, 947

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation..

1393

Secretary ofthe Senate,

appropriation for, assistant, clerks , etc .. 389, 935

restriction on orders for reprinting bills,

resolutions, etc ......

1012

Secretary ofthe Treasury,

appropriation for, Assistants, clerks, etc. 402, 949

for divisions in office of..

403, 950

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation ..

1372

for changing bookkeeping methods .

1372

use of force of bookkeeping and war-

rants division ....

1372

authorized to construct vessel for removing

wrecks, etc...........

190

3596

INDEX .

Secretary ofthe Treasury-Continued. may rent buildings on sites acquired for public buildings .. to appoint, etc. , deputy collectors of customs, etc.. to approve location , etc. , of right of way, quarantine station, Wash .. to coin gold bullion in reserve fund in excess of $50,000,000 ..

Page. 1306 880 926 202

to control quarantine stations to prevent introduction of yellow fever, etc.... 299

to designate electrical engineer on commission on commercial use of surplus

waters of the Mississippi in Minne-

sota...

457

to direct seizure of vessels, etc. , illegally

fishing in Alaska..

264

·

to prescribe regulations for admission of

imports, Jamestown Exposition ... 767

to carry out pure-food act

768

for government of Revenue-Cutter Serv-

ice .

201

to provide quarters for all branches of service, in buildings under omnibus act.. 1236

to readjust claim of Rhode Island for ex-

penses, war with Spain .....

214

to report proceeds from property, etc. , not

turned into the Treasury..

763

to review, etc. , sentences of Revenue-

Cutter Service courts ...

201

to submit estimate of receipts and expendi-

tures, etc , in annual report, and

statement of preceding year...

949

to transfer land for site of court-house and

jail , Nome, Alaska, to Department

of Justice....

1358

to use revenue cutters and supplies for

relief of earthquake sufferers..

827

Secretary of War,

appropriation for, Assistant, clerks, etc .. 417, 963 for Princeton battlefield monument

under; design..

224

for monument at Provincetown, Mass. ,

under; design, etc ..

225

for monument Kings Mountain battle

ground, S. C. , under direction of;

approval, etc..

286

for survey of trail, Fairbanks to Council

City, Alaska ...

316

for pier, etc., Jamestown Island .

766

for Sloat monument, Monterey, Cal. ,

under; approval , etc ..

1408

for monument at Chalmette, La., in

memory of battle of New Orleans,

1812 ...

1411

deficiency appropriation for additional

compensation...

1380

approval necessary to allow building to

project beyond building line on land

adjoining public reservations, D. C .. 385

of Chief of Engineers and, required for

plans, etc., of dams...

386

authorized to grant right to build wharves,

etc. , in Porto Rican waters ..

234

sell coal to citizens of Nome, Alaska ..

59

directed to construct bridge across Missis-

sippi River, Saint Paul, Minn ..........

66

contribution by Saint Paul and rail-

road companies .

67

limit of cost, etc.

68

survey, etc. , Duluth, Minn. , harbor .... 2832

duties, controlling use of waters of Niagara

River....

626

Secretary of War-Continued .

Page.

duties, proceedings to acquire lands , etc. , for new canal , Saint Marys Falls ... 1098
respecting arms, etc., issued to militia .. 450

locating, etc., graves of Confederates

who died in northern prisons and

hospitals....

56

under act regulating bridges .

84

expenditure for channel at Foys Flats ,

Trent River, N. C. , authorized .

1424

may admit to Military Academy José Mar-

tín Calvo

834

José March Duplat..

1423

authorize change of location of bridges

across Hudson River at New York,

N. Y ..

1119

grant right to complete and use Lock No.

4, Coosa River, Ala .; conditions .... 211

issue obsolete ordnance to State and Ter-

ritorial schools, etc ...

817

modify improvement of harbor, Milwau-

kee, Wis..

819

restrict navigation of Ambrose Channel ,

N. Y. , by deep-draft vessels........

1077

printing of river and harbor surveys, act of

1905, under discretion of..

839

to acquire lands for remedial works , Saint

Marys River, Michigan- Lake Su-

perior Power Company..

1100

title to lands, etc. , for river and harbor

improvements, at private expense .. 196

extended to locks, dry docks, etc ..

632

to appoint Alaska road commissioners .

192

to approve location, etc. , of dams across

Bear River, Miss ..

130

Choctawhatchee River, Dale County,

Ala ..

102

Coosa River, Ala. , near Lock 2 .

183

Lock and Dam No. 12

1288

Crow Wing River, Minn .

296

Mississippi River, Bemidji, Minn . ,

210

Clearwater, Minn ..

266

Monticello , Minn ..

265

Morrison County, Minn .

209

Saint Cloud , Minn ...

537

Missouri River, Mont .

111

Niobrara River, Nebr.

297

Pea River, Ala ...

18

Red Lake River, Minn..

66

Rock River, near Grand Detour, Ill .

14

north and south branches ..

155

Saint Joseph River, Mich ..

103

Tennessee River, Muscle Shoals , Ala... 52

to approve location, etc. , of right of way,

Fort Columbia Reservation, Wash.. 926

Fort Douglas Reservation , Utah..

927

Fort Keogh Reservation , Mont ..

187

Fort Marion Reservation, Fla ..

1219

Fort Niobrara Reservation, Nebr.

297

Fort Sill Reservation, Okla ..

613

Fort Wright Reservation, Wash

865, 927

Lock No. 1, Upper White River, Ark.......... 1283

Natchez, Miss. , national cemetery road-

way.

1248

San Pedro Military Reservation , Cal ..

915

Shiloh National Park..

388

Vicksburg National Cemetery, Miss ..

850

Washington and Western Maryland Rail-

road through Government lands,

D. C ...

533.

Willoughby Spit Reservation , Va.....

1249

to approve plans, etc., of bridge across

Arkansas River, Pine Bluff, Ark ... 50

Van Buren, Ark..

21

INDEX.

3597

Secretary of War-Continued .

Page.

to approve plans, etc., of bridge across

Columbia River, between Douglas

and Kittitas counties, Wash...

110

Franklin and Benton counties , Wash . 108

Vancouver, Wash....

3

Wenatchee, Wash..

6

Cumberland River, Clarksville, Tenn .. 134

Lineport, Tenn ..

58

Nashville, Tenn..

135

Delaware River, Trenton , N. J.

64

Missouri River, S. Dak .

95

Mobile Bay, Ala...

10

Monongahela River, Brownsville, Pa

128

Ouachita, etc. , rivers, Ark..

2

Perdido River, Waters Ferry, Ala .

79

Sabine River, La. and Tex .

8

Saint Andrews Bay, Fla..

18

Saint Francis River, Clay County, Ark . 19, 20

Madison, Ark...

90

Snake River, Lewiston, Idaho .

98

Whitman and Columbia counties,

Wash...

107

Tennessee River, Brandons Mill to

Birmingham, Ky.

57

Tug Fork of Big Sandy River, William-

son, W. Va..

69

Yazoo River, Miss.

112, 618

Yellowstone River, Mont .

97

to approve plans, etc. , of canal, Lake Wash-

ington to Puget Sound , Wash

231

Lock and Dam No. 1 , White River, Ark. 536 to approve plans, etc. , for diversion of

Sacramento River, Cal., for irriga-

tion..

185

to approve plans, etc. , for ship canal between Lake Erie and Ohio River... 812

to approve plans, etc. , of water-power

plant, White River, Ark..

629

to approve plans, etc. , of wharves, etc. ,

into Lake Michigan, Lake County,

Ind ...

829, 834

to award medal of honor to Roe Reisinger. 1420

to cause survey, etc. , of Coney Island

Channel, N. Y..

538

to control funds for bridge over Mississippi

River at Fort Snelling, Minn

1418

to convey land between channel of Ana-

costia River and certain squares,

Washington, D. C., to purchaser.... 1237

to deed "The Lines," Saint Augustine,

Fla. , to Saint Johns County for

school purposes....

913

to deliver obsolete ordnance to Athens

Monument Association ...

1233

General Henry Leavenworth Monument

Committee ...

839

General Howell Post, G. A. R. , Wood-

bury, N. J..

829

Junction City, Kans. , Grand Army Post. 839

Michigan, for statue of late Governor

Stevens T. Mason .

834

Petoskey, Mich...

1293

Preston, Iowa..

1422

South Dakota..

1420

Valley Forge Park Commission, Pa ..

1415

gun carriage to Ripley, Tenn. , for monu-

ment..

836

Vincennes University.

834

to deliver unidentified Confederate battle flags to Southern Historical Society.. 837

to designate disbursing officer, expenses of

roads and trails, Alaska...

193

Secretary of War-Continued. todesignate officer of Engineers and Quartermasters Department on commission on commercial use of surplus waters of the Mississippi in Minnesota ... to determine travel and duty without troops, officers ...

Page.
457 246

to exchange lands of Fort Douglas Reserva-

tion, Utah; with Le Grand Young.. 612

appropriation for..

613

with Minneapolis, Minn. , for Lock and

Dam No. 1 ...

188

to issue medals to volunteers in Spanish

war who served beyond enlistment to suppress Philippine insurrection . 621

to issue rules, permits, etc., for excavating

for antiquities on public lands under

his jurisdiction....

225

to loan tents, etc. , for Jamestown Exposi-

tion; conditions..

1175

to prescribe changes, etc. , in bridge across

Mississippi River, at Prairie d

Chien , Wis ..

615

to procure additional subsistence and quar-

termaster supplies, etc. , for earthquake sufferers, on Pacific coast .. 827

appropriation for purchases, etc ..

827

made available for medical supplies. 827

for further relief; extra expenses al-

lowed...

828

to purchase land on Deer Island , Boston, Mass. , for fortifications ..
to sell certain land in Washington , D. C., to Sidney Bieber ...
to serve on Barry Monument Commission Columbus Memorial Commission .. John Paul Jones Monument Commission....
commission to select site for Longfellow statue...

457
787 224 1413
224
830

to use transport " Sumner" to convey commission, etc., to dedication of monuments, Santiago de Cuba battlefield . 821
Securities, United States,

appropriation for distinctive paper..... 706, 1313

for witness, destruction of.........

706, 1313

for sealing and separating..

706, 1313

for canceling, etc..

. * 706, 1313

for custody of dies, rolls , and plates .. 707, 1313

Seebers, John W. ,

pension increased

1520

Seed, Thomas H.,

pension increased .

2778

Seeds, etc., Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for expenses of distributing,

etc ..

682, 1267

Congressional distribution.. notification of readiness ..

682, 1268 682, 1268

mailing franks ....

682, 1268

report of purchases; diversion forbid-

den ...

682, 1268

distribution : selection as to locality:

southern delivery ..

682, 1268

for collecting, from foreign countries . 682, 1268

Seeley, Aaron P.,

pension increased .

1999

Seelye, Henry E., pension increased .
Seeman, Charles, payment to..
Sees, Jonas M., pension increased
Sees, Louisa M. (widow), pension increased ..

2074 2662 2242 2243

3598

INDEX .

Seismological Association, International,

Page.

appropriation for annual contribution,

etc.

728, 922

Seitz, William, pension increased .
Selders, Sarah E. (widow) , pension..

2648 2776

Selfridge, Susan W. (widow) ,

pension increased .

1601

Selk, Charles,

pension increased .

2526

Sellers, Fidelia (widow),

pension..

2352

Sellers, J. F. ,

deficiency appropriation for extra services . 1396

Selma, Ala. , appropriation for public building....... 1304 limit of cost increased , public building .. 773

Semans, David H. ,

pension increased ..

2352

Seminole Indians (see also Five Civilized

Tribes);

appropriation for tribal schools .. for fulfilling treaties with..

340, 1026 344, 1029

principal chief to issue deeds prior to ex-

tinction of government...

139

payments on account of loyal, ratified .

140

highways on section lines of lands of..

145

Senate,

appropriation for compensation of Sena-

tors ..

389, 935

for mileage..

389,935

for secretary to Vice-President, etc ... 389, 935

for chaplain . for Secretary, assistant, clerks, etc

389, 935 389, 935

for superintendent document room ,

assistants, etc : ....

390, 935

for clerks and messengers to commit-

tees ..

390, 935

for clerks to committees, at $2,100 a

year ..

390, 936

additional to Committee on Rules for

revising Manual...

936

at $1,800 a year..

390, 936

for Sergeant-at-Arms and Docrkeeper,

assistants ...

390, 936

for messengers , laborers, pages, etc. 391, 936

for postmaster, assistant, etc..

391, 937

for superintendent folding room , etc .. 391 , 937

for chief engineer, assistant, etc.

391, 937

for clerks to Senators .....

391, 937

for contingent expenses, stationery, newspapers ...
for postage stamps.. for horses and mail wagons .
for folding materials, folding . for fuel, oil, etc ..
for furniture, repairs, etc. for packing boxes.. for miscellaneous items.
Maltby Building.. for inquiries and investigations .. for reporting debates... for repairs, Maltby Building . for rent, document warehouse .
for equipping post-office.. for office building..

and 391, 937 391 , 937 391, 937 392, 937 392, 937 392, 938 392, 938 392, 938 392, 938 392, 938
392, 938 392, 938 392, 938
723 723, 1330

for joint commission of House of Repre-

sentatives and, to report on second-

class mail matter..

477

for heating, lighting, and power plant for,

etc ..

1331

for additional ventilating fan, etc. for printing and binding..

1331 759 , 1366

Senate-Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for subway from

new office building to Capitol..

37

for widows of deceased Senators

43

for widow of Arthur Pue Gorman ..

661

for widow of Russell A. Alger..

1394

for William B. C. Brown , Thomas B. Car-

roll , and John B. Kelly.

43

for miscellaneous items .

43, 661, 1395

for furniture ..

43

for H. C. Adams..

43

for extra services, Interstate Commerce

Committee ..

43, 1396

for E. C. Goodwin ..

43

for Charles G. Phelps .

43

for kitchen ....

653

for extra month's pay, officers, etc ... 660, 1394

for stationery and newspapers .

660

for fuel, oil , etc.

660

for inquiries and investigations .. for official reporters ...

661, 1395 661, 1396

for Ormsby McHarg and Dennis M.

Kerr..

661 , 1395

for J. H. Jones.

661, 1395

for share of printing investigation ex-

penses ...

1394

for expenses joint committee, opening of

Jamestown Exposition..

1394

for pay of Senators ..

1394

for E. B. Shurter..

1395

for Mary Lajord ..

1395

for clerk, Committee on Ventilation and

Acoustics ...

1395

for Honorable Reed Smoot ..

1394

for Consolidated Index to Statutes at

Large .

1368

for Pitman Pulsifer .

1395

for George R. Butlin, J. B. Haynes, and

Ernst H. Djureen ..

1395

for William M. Malloy .

1305

for clerk to Appropriations Committee, additional.
for William B. Turner.
for Woodbury Pulsifer.. employees to be paid December, 1905, sal-
aries, December 20 .... December, 1906 , salaries, December 20 .. committee authorized to attend Franklin
birthday ceremonies
opening of Jamestown Exposition .. Committee on Printing to serve on Printing
Investigation Commission .....

1396 .1396 1396
821 1418
2830 2840
1394

five members, Sixtieth Congress, to be

appointed on Joint Committee on

Revision, etc. , of the Laws ...

1423

joint committee authorized on proposed additions to Rock Creek Park, D. C. 788

House of Representatives and, author-

ized to submit report, etc. , on re-

vision of the laws

2833

stationery, blanks, etc., pertaining to legis-

lation to be furnished by Public

Printer ....

1013

three members to be appointed on joint

immigration commission....

909

on joint postal commission ; duties ..... 1216

Senate Manual,

appropriation for revising, etc. , biennially. 936

Senators,

appropriation for compensation and mile-

age ..

389, 935

for clerks to ..

391, 937

deficiency appropriation for compensation . 1394

binding of documents for..

1013

compensation established .

994

INDEX.

3599

Senators, Election of,

Page.

money contributions by corporations for,

prohibited .

864

penalty .

865

Seneca Indians, N. Y. ,

appropriation for interest ...

359, 1041

Seoul, Korea, classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for interpreter to consul-

general

288, 918

for clerk hire, consulate-general at 293, 924

Sequoia National Park, Cal., appropriation for management, etc ..... 729, 1337
Sergeant-at- Arms and Doorkeeper, Senate,

appropriation for, assistant doorkeepers,

messengers, etc..

390, 936

Sergeant-at- Arms, House of Representatives,

appropriation for, deputy, etc.

394, 940

Serums, Tuberculin, etc.,

appropriation for purchase, etc., for treat-

ing diseases of domestic animals. 674, 1260

Servia, Roumania and,

appropriation for minister to .

287, 917

for secretary of legation........

287, 917

Service Pensions, allowed at age of 62 for ninety days ' service in civil and sixty days ' in Mexican

war; rating..

879

provisions extended to present pensioners,

etc ..

1406

Service Schools , Army,

appropriation for expenses.. Services, Voluntary Personal,

240, 1158

no Government officer to accept, without

authority by law; exception..

49

Sessions, Willard F.,

pension increased .

2038

Settle, Charles,

pension increased .

2352

Settlement of America, proclamation inviting foreign nations to

participate in tercentenary of, by

English-speaking people at James-

town, Va .

2997

militia of States and Territories

3205

Settlemire, Mattie (widow) ,

pension...

1566

Seventeenth Street NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extending ,

Kenyon to Irving street ..

854

appropriation for .

855

Seventh Light- House District,

tender authorized for..

995

appropriation for..

1319

Seventh Street NE. , D. C. , proceedings to condemn land for extend-

ing, etc..

844

appropriation for ..

844

Severson, Bryngel,

pension increased .

2405

Sevey, Warren J.,

pension increased .

2588

Sevier Forest Reserve, Utah,

proclamation establishing

3020

enlarging

3187

Seville, Spain, classification and salary of consul ......................... 100

Sevin, Rose (widow),

pension increased .

2646

Sewell, Florence A. (widow),

pension increased .

1544

Sewers, D. C. ,

appropriation for cleaning and repairing 494, 1131

for services and supplies...

494, 1131

estimates required hereafter..

494

Sewers, D. C. -Continued .

Page.

appropriation for main and pipe, etc 494, 1131

for suburban.....

494, 1131

for rights of way; funds available . 494, 1131

for pumping station ..

494

for Arizona avenue, continuation , etc... 494

for Falls Branch valley .

494

· for extending east side, to Brookland. 494, 1131

for Broad Branch valley

1131

use of balances ...

494, 1131

for paving approaches to pumping station 1128

Sewickley, Pa.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

784

appropriation for .

795

Sexton, Charles M.,

pension increased .

2222

Sexton, Stephen M.,

pension increased

1873

Seymour, John, pension increased ..
Shacklett, Absalom R., pension increased.
Shacklett, George W., pension increased
Shade, Jacob, pension increased

1462  2790
2650 1434

Shafer, Jacob C.,

pension increased ..

2110

Shaffer, George M.,

pension increased .

2722

Shaffer, James,

pension increased .

1822

Shaffer, William H. H.,

pension increased ..

1938

Shallotte River, N. C., appropriation for improvement of ........................ 1084
Shallow Bag Bay, N. C. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1116

Shallow, Bernard,

pension increased .

2792

Shamokin, Pa.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for .

795

Shanghai, China,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire..

293, 923

for prison expenses .. session of United States court in.

294.925 814

Shanghaiing,

punishment for; aiding, etc ...

551, 1233

extended to vessels on high seas or navi-

gable waters..

1233

Shank, John,

pension increased

2686

Shanks, Stephen B. H.,

pension increased ..

2647

Shannon, William ,

pension increased .

1593

Sharon, Pa. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized..

780

appropriation for..

793. 1304

Sharpley, Daniel, pension increased .

2169

Sharpshooters, Army,

additional pay to..

241

Shasta Forest Reserve . Cal.,

proclam

stablishing.

enlarging

3157 8235

Shattuck, Charles,

pension increased

2720

Sharer, Josiah II..

pension increased .

2527

3600

INDEX .

Shawnee Indian Training Schooi, Okla.,

Page.

sale of land for improvement of, authorized 362

Shaw, James,

pension increased

2619

Shaw, Samuel A.,

pension increased .

1530

Shawver, Samuel,

pension increased

2282

Shea, Cornelius,

pension increased

2643

Sheaff, William L.,

pension increased

1945

Sheak, James M.,

pension increased ..

2362

Shear, John N.,

pension increased

2634

Shearer, Stout,

pension increased .

1604

Shebit Indians, Utah,

sale of lands to Utah and Eastern Copper

Company; conditions...

375

Sheboygan, Wis. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1100

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ...

775

appropriation for..

790, 1304

light-keepers ' dwelling authorized .

323

deficiency appropriation for..

659

Sheckler, William H.,

pension increased .

2446

Shedd, Charles W. ,

pension increased .

1836

Shedd, Lorenzo W.,

pension increased .

2209

Sheehan, Mary (widow),

pension increased

2090

Sheehan, Michael,

granted honorable discharge ...

2408

Sheep, confinement of, in interstate transit with-

out unloading, forbidden; night ex-

tension...

607

provisions for inspection, etc. , of carcasses

and products in interstate and for-

eign commerce..

674, 1260

Sheestal, Charles, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed from part of

allotment ....

378

Sheets, Paul,

pension increased .

2561

Sheffield, England,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

appropriation for clerk hire..........

294, 924

Sheffield, Sallie F. (widow),

pension increased .

1601

Shehan, Lizzie E. (widow),

pension increased.

1445

Sheil, Jacob,

pension increased .

2183

Sheldon, Charles F.,

pension increased

2135

Shell, Absalom,

pension increased .

1896

Shelley, Frederick J.,

pension increased .

1493

Shelley, Henry,

pension increased .

2737

Shelly, Daniel,

pension increased .

1924

Shelly, Mary Ann (widow),

pension increased .

2079

Shelton, Nancy F. (widow),

pension increased .

1712

Shem River, S. C., preliminary examination of, to be made... 1117

Shenandoah, Iowa,
acquiring site for public building at, authorized ...
appropriation for. Shepard, Alice S. (widow),
pension increased .
Shepard, Gordon H. , pension increased

Page. 782 794 1921 1487

Shepardson, Iva O. (widow),

pension increased.

2490

Shepherd, Edward B. ,

pension increased .

2698

Shepherd, George W. ,

pension increased .

1525

Shepherd, Samuel,

pension increased .

2691

Shepherd, Willard V.,

pension...

1754

Shepherdstown, W. Va., bridge authorized across Potomac River at. 878

Sheppard, Abraham E. ,

pension increased ..

2192

Sheppard, Amaziah G.,

pension increased

2342

Sheppard, Maria C. (widow),

pension increased .

2183

Sherbrooke, Quebec,

classification and salary of consul.....................

99

Sherk, William ,

pension increased ..

2405

Sheridan, Sarah, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Sherlock, Anthony,

pension increased .

1676

Sherman, Eleanor N. (widow) ,

pension .

2711

Sheridan, Wyo.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for..

794, 1304

Sherman, Andrew, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ...

357

Sherman Avenue, D. C.,

reassessment of benefits, extension of; con-

firmation ..

630

Sherman, Emily J. (daughter),

pension....

2290

Sherman, Frank, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Sherman Institute, Riverside, Cal., appropriation for Indian school..... 333, 1022

Sherman, Lena ( widow),

pension increased .

1655

Sherman, Sheffield L., jr.,

pension increased

2705

Sherman, Tex.,

appropriation for public building ....... 699, 1304

Sherwood, John A.,

pension increased

1682

Sherwood, Warren A. ,

pension increased

2536

Shetter, Egbert P.,

pension increased .

1621

Shevlin, Patrick F. , alias Patrick Burns,

pension increased ..

2798

Shiloh Baptist Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded ....

869

Shiloh National Military Park, Tenn.,

appropriation for establishing...

744, 1349

right of way through, for electric railway .. 388

Shinaman, Frederick,

pension increased

2477

Shincis, Frank, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

365

INDEX.

3601

Shiney, Joseph, pension increased.

Page. 2116

Shinolt, John,

pension increased ....

2663

Ship Canal,

commission to report on feasibility of, be-

tween Delaware and Chesapeake

bays .

835

Ship Canal, Lake Erie and Ohio River,

authority granted for construction of..... 809

Ship Canal, Wash. ,

construction authorized from Lake Wash-

ington to Puget Sound ...

231

delivery to Government on completion;

use..

< 232

modification authorized .

1108

Ship Island Harbor, Miss., payment for dredging channel and anchor-

age basin, Mississippi Sound, be-

tween Gulfport and .

83

Ship Island Pass, Miss., appropriation for improvement of.. .... 1088

Ship, Steamboat, and Way Letters, appropriation for...

476, 1214

Shipman, Levi I.,

pension increased ...

1616

Shipping (see also Vessels in Domestic Com-

merce),

authority of Ejnar Mikkelsen to act as mas-

ter of American vessel..

481

clearances forbidden vessels carrying meat

animals and products without cer-

tificate of inspection....

677, 1233

five coasting dstricts established .

190

head tax on aliens entering United States.. 898

license required of masters, etc. , of steam

vessels .

864

masters of sail vessels of over 700 gross

tons......

864

of all passenger vessels over 100 gross

tons ..

864

petroleum ships may enter and clear at San

Luis Obispo, Port Harford , and Mon-

terey, Cal....

23

provision for trade with Philippines ..

154

punishment for shanghaiing

551

extended to vessels on high seas or navi-

gable waters ..

1233

of masters, etc. , illegally landing aliens . 900

registry of foreign-built wrecks repealed ... 17

space, etc., requirements for emigrant pas-

sengers on steam vessels ..

910

on sailing vessels ..

910

penalty for violation ....

911

in effect January 1 , 1909 .

911

Shipping Commissioners,

appropriation for office expenses ..

722, 1330

deficiency appropriation for rent, San

Francisco ..

42

bond to be approved by Secretary of Com-

merce and Labor..

137

form of oath modified .

137

Shippman, Peter,

pension increased .

1640

Shipwrecked American Seamen, etc., appropriation for life-saving testimonials;

rescuing.. for relief and protection of.

290, 919 295, 925

deficiency appropriation for relief, etc. , of. 27,

667, 1405

for services to .

48, 667, 1403

Shipyard River, S. C. , preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1117

Shirk, Mathias,

pension increased .

2594

Shoal Harbor, N. J.,
appropriation for improvement of..................... Shobert, John,
pension increased .
Shoemaker, William, pension increased
Shoener, Samuel, pension increased .
Shoes and Gaiters,

Page. 1079 2600 1755 2626

modification of Philippine custom duties

on..

..26

Sholl, Alexander,

pension increased · Shook, Jonathan,

.2686

pension increased

1738

Shooting Ranges, etc., Army,

appropriation for .

255, 1172

Short, James L., pension increased

2689 .

Short, John, Illinois Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2362

Short, John, New York Volunteers,

pension increased .

2645

Short Pine Forest Reserve, S. Dak. ,

proclamation establishing

3129

Short, William C.,

pension....

1723

Shoshone Agency, Nev . , Western,

appropriation for support, etc., of Indians

of..

358, 1040

Shoshone and Arapaho Indians,

land laws extended to cession of, in Wyo-

ming .

78

Shoshone Indian Reservation, Wyo.,

appropriation for Indian school..

383, 1051

for extending irrigation system.. for resurveys, etc ..

384, 1052 1052

lease ofland for sanatorium authorized . 1052

deficiency appropriation for opening lands

ceded on; reimbursement ..

205

proclamation opening to entry, ceded por-

tion of .

3208

entries for ceded lands, to be made at

Shoshoni ..

3222

time extended for opening to entry ceded

portion of..

825

homesteaders to establish residence on

opened lands of......

849

Shoshone Indians, Wyo. , < appropriation for support, etc. , of......

383, 1051

for fulfilling treaty with..

384, 1051

Shoshoni, Wyo.,

entries for ceded lands on Shoshone Indian

Reservation to be made at ......

3222

Shott, Ida C. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

356

Shott, Louis Dick, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

356

Shrader, Daniel,

pension increased

2023

Shreeve, Charles H. ,

pension increased .

2343

Shreve, Mariam T. (widow),

pension...

1480

Shreveport, La. ,

time extended for bridging Red River by. 9, 1255

Shrewsbury River, N. J. ,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1080

Shroyer, Joseph,

pension increased .

1895

Shuey, Robert G.,

pension increased ..

1799

Shultz, Barney,

pension increased .

1475

3602

INDEX.

Shultz, William M., pension increased .

Page. 1564

Shunk, Alexander, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

373

Shunk, Hermine, Indian Allottee,

fec-simple title to ..

373

Shunk, Louis, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

374

Shunk, William, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ....

373

Shurtee, E. B.,

deficiency appropriation for services...... 1395

Shutler, Mary (widow),

pension..

2484

Siam ,

appropriation for minister to ..

287, 917

for secretary of legation.. for interpreter

287, 917 288, 918

for expenses of prisoners..

295, 925

Sidert, Benjamin F.,

pension increased .

2764

Sibley, Henry H.,

pension increased .

1913

Sibley, Mo.,

time extended for bridging Missouri River

between Kansas City and....

911

Sickels, Horace H.,

pension increased .

2154

Sickler, Emma (widow),

pension increased .

2515

Siddell. Wilson,

pension increased .

2544

Side Tracks, Private,

switch connections to be furnished ..................... 585

Sidel, Louis,

pension increased .

2264

Sidewalks and Curbs, D. C.,

appropriation for repairs, etc. , around res-

ervations, etc ..

... 492, 1130

Sidings, D. C., Railroad,

permitted across V strezt, east of Fifth

street northeast ..

521

on N street parking, between First and

Second, for unloading municipal

materials ....

521

Siebert, J. F.,

deficiency appropriation for extra services . 1396

Siege Cannon, Army,

appropriation for purchase, manufacture,

etc ..

463, 1059

Siegfried, Hiram,

pension increased .

2441

Sierra Forest Reserve, Cal. ,

lands added to, from Yosemite Park...

832

payment for privileges; restriction rights

of way grants....

832

effect on private owners.

832

receipts to be used for Yosemite Park... 832

permit to occupy land, etc. , for power plants in, by Edison Electric Com-

pany .

163

proclamation extending area..

3133

right of way through, to Los Angeles..

801

Sierra, Josoph,

payment to heirs of...

2306

Sierra Leone, Africa, classification and salary of consul .................... 100

Sierra Madre Forest Reserve, Wyo. ,

proclamation establishing

3242

Signal Corps, Army, appropriation for enlisted men ; longevity. 242, 1160 for pay of officers; longevity ......... 244 , 1162

Signal Office, War Department,

Page.

appropriation for clerks, etc ..

418, 964

draftsmen, etc. , to be paid from appro-

priations for fortifications, etc .... 419, 964

for rent...

421 , 967

Signal Service, Army (see also Signal Corps) ,

appropriation for expenses...

241, 1159

for electrical communication expenses .. 241 ,

1159

for extension, etc. , Alaska telegraph

lines, from receipts ; estimates ... 241 , 1159

for cable, etc. , from Forts Dade and De

Soto, Fla. , to mainland ..

464

deficiency appropriation for..

46

for replacing stores, fire at Seattle, Wash. 645

for replacing stores destroyed by earth-

quake ..

645

for earthquake damages, cable Island and Alcatraz ..
for expenses, Cuban pacification . Sikes, James M.,
pension increased . Silas, James, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to .. Silas, Job, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to .. Siler, Jesse,
pension increased . Siletz Agency, Oreg.,

Angel

645 1382 2029 380 380 1737

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

at..

369, 1045

Silver (see also Gold and Silver Articles), requirements for marking, etc. , articles of.. 261

Silver Certificates,

issue of Treasury notes to meet deficiency

in small..

1289

Silver Certificates, Philippine,

redemption, etc. , in gold coin ..

453

Silver Coin,

appropriation for transporting..

706

for transporting fractional.

1312

for transporting dollars .

1313

deficiency appropriation for transporting.. 28,

119, 636, 1373

Simkins, James B. ,

pension increased .

1889

Simmons , Abraham J.,

pension increased

2610

Simmons, Edward,

appropriation for paying damages to tug... 1292

Simmons, John H.,

pension increased .

2638

Simmons, Leonard F. ,

pension increased .

1468

Simmons, William,

pension..

1865

Simon, Henry,

pension increased .

2353

Simon, Peter M.,

pension increased .

2388

Simons, Lucius R.,

pension increased

1720

Simpson, Chester,

pension increased .

2336

Simpson, Dwight,

pension increased .

2456

Simpson, Elbridge,

pension increased ..

2648

Simpson, Francis M.,

pension increased .

1805

Simpson, Franklin,

pension increased..

1809

Simpson, Katherine R., Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

346

INDEX.

3603

Simpson, Margaret (widow), pension increased.

Page. 2134

Sims, Eliza Rebecca (widow),

pension increased ..

2198

Sinclair, James H.,

pension increased ..

2494

Sine, Harvey,

pension increased ...

2396

Singapore, Straits Settlements, classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire.....

294, 924

Singer, W. J.,

payment to..

2662

Singers, Alien,

not excluded admission under contract .... 899

Sink, Lorenzo,

pension increased .

2331

Sinking Fund, D. C.,

appropriation for interest and.......... 508, 1147

Sinking Fund Office, D. C., appropriation for clerks...

484, 1121

Sioux City, Iowa,

terms of court .

912

Sioux Indians, Different Tribes,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 371, 1047

for agency employees..

371, 1048

for subsistence...

371 , 1048

transportation ; employment of In-

dians ..

371, 1048

issuing rations ..

371 , 1048

use of unexpended balance..

371 , 1048

for support, etc. , of schools ..

371, 1048

for allotting lands in reservations 372, 1048

to children ..

1048

deficiency appropriation for subsistence ,

etc ...

47, 667, 1403

for surveys, Pine Ridge and Standing

Rock reservations ...

1403

allotments to married women not receiving

lands .....

1049

payment to Santee Sioux and Poncas from

permanent fund ..

356

sale of part of Rosebud Reservation.......

1230

disposition of proceeds...

1231

stock cattle may be issued in lieu of milch

cows, etc. , to ...

326

Sioux Indians of Devils Lake, N. Dak., appropriation for support, etc. , of... 360, 1042

payments in April...

1042

for additional payment for ceded lands.. 360

Sioux Indians, Yankton Tribe,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 371 , 1048

for subsistence , etc ....

371 , 1048

fee-simple patents to certain, allottees .... 373

Sipsey River, Ala.,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1111

Sires, Thomas,

pension increased.........

2540

Sirmyer, John,

pension increased..

1980

Sischo, Charles E.,

pension increased ..

1953

Sisco, Orin D. ,

pension increased ..

2676

Siskiyou Fores. Reserve, Or J.,

proclamation establishing

3239

enlarging

3280

Sisseton Agency, S. Dak. , appropriation for Indian agent at...... 370, 1046

Sisseton and Wahpeton Bands, Sioux Indians,

determination of claims for, for forfeited

annuities in Court of Claims ..

372

payment to attorneys ..

372

fee-simple patents to certain, allottees ..

373

Sisson, Henry T., pension increased .
Sistrunk, Henry,
pension... Sites for Public Buildings,
temporary rent of buildings on acquired, authorized ......

Page. 1954 1958
1306

Sitka, Alaska,

appropriation for additional land, marine

barracks ...

569

Sitoka, Amos , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

374

Sivas, Turkey,

classification and salary of consul ......

100

Sivels, Ellen T. (widow), .

pension....

1915

Sivley, Absalom,

pension increased .

2591

Six, Joseph L.,

pension increased .

2404

Sir Nations Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 359, 1041 Sixteen Hour Act (see also Hours of Labor,

Railway Employees) .

correction in enrollment of, directed

2840

Sixteenth Street NW., D. C. ,

proceedings to condemn land for parkway

along Piney Branch to Rock Creek

Park..

1000

Sixth Light- House District,

appropriation for tender for inspector... 1317

tender for inspector, limit of cost in-

creased...

323, 858

Sixth Street NE. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for extending 844

appropriation for....

844

Sizer, Thomas J.,

pension increased ..

1884

Skaden, Charles, jr. (son), pension...
Skagit River, Wash. , preliminary examination of, to be made ..
Skeans, Jonathan, pension increased ..
Skeens, Jimison F. ,
pension... Skelton, Nathaniel E. ,
pension increased .. Skenanaoah, Hendrix, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to . Skenandoah, Joseph, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to..

1904 1118 2112 2351 1662 380 380

Skiddaway Narrows , Ga., appropriation for improvement of ........ 1085
Skilled Labor, Alien,

admission permitted ; condition ....

899

Skinner, Eli M.,

pension increased ..

2434

Skinner, Sidney S.,

pension increased ..

2473

Slack, Thomas A.,

pension increased...

1517

Slagg, Joseph,

pension increased ..

2168

Slater, Edgar, pension increased...

2981

Slater, James,

pension increased .....

273

Slaughterhouses,

sanitary inspection of, etc.

676, 1262

Slave Trade, Bureau for Repression of African,

appropriation for annual contribution ... 291 , 920

Sleeping Car Companies, included as common carriers in interstate

commerce regulations .............

584

3604

INDEX.

Sliger, Adam, pension increased .
Slinger, Andrew J., pension increased ..

Page. 2650
2232

Sloan, Henry Clay,

pension increased .

2130

Sloan, James,

pension increased ..

1456

Sloat, Commodore John D..

appropriation for monument to commemo-

rate occupying Pacific coast by .... 1408

Sloat, Sylvanus,

pension increased .

2557

Slocum, Charles H. ,

pension increased .

2762

Slocum, Giles Q.,

pension increased ..

1578

Sloggy, Peter,

pension increased .

1859

Small, James L.,

pension increased ....

1505

Small, Nathan,

pension increased .....

2495

Smallpox,

appropriation for prevention of epi-

demic..

709, 1316

Smallwood, Isaac C.,

pension increased.

2000

Smart, Merritt M.,

pension increased .

2512

Smiley, Riley M.,

'pension increased .

1902

Smith, Abraham K.,

pension increased.

2055

Smith, Abram V. ,

pension increased ..

1,480

Smith, Albert,

pension increased .

1559

Smith, Alva D.,

pension increased..

2043

Smith, Anderson J.,

pension increased.

1966

Smith, Andrew,

pension increased .

1630

Smith, Annie E. (widow),

pension increased..

2672

Smith, Annie M. (widow),

pension increased......

1592

Smith, Barnes B.,

persion increased..

1703

Smith, Caroline A. (widow),

pension increased.

2573

Smith, Catharine E. (widow),

pension increased .

2122

Smith, Charles E.,

pension increased ..

1457

Smith, Cornelius B., appropriation for repairs to wharf and boat . 1291
Smith, Daniel G.,

return from President requested of bill to pension .
Smith, David C., pension increased..
Smith, Don C., pension increased ...

2838 2805 2264'

Smith, Edgar,

deficiency appropriation for services to

Cherokees ..

656

Smith, Edward A. , and others, may construct dam, etc. , across
River, at Lyndon, Ill ., Smith, Edward W.,
pension increased.............. Smith, Elias,
pension increased ..........

Rock 933
..2125
1612

Smith, Elijah A.,

Page.

pension increased .

1935

Smith, Eliza A. (widow),

pension increased...

2208

Smith, Elizabeth C. (widow),

pension increased..

2651

Smith, Emma A. (daughter),

pension..

1887

Smith, Eulala, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

346

Smith, Frank D.,

pension increased...........

1662

Smith, Gabriel,

pension increased .

1526

Smith, George E.,

pension increased..

2316

Smith, George W., Iowa Volunteers,

pension increased..

2571

Smith, George W. , Pennsylvania Volunteers,

pension increased..

2258

S·mith, Harvey,

pension increased....

2672

Smith, Hollis,

pension increased ....

2607

Smith, Isaac C.,

pension increased..

2776

Smith, Jacob,

pension increased...

2269

Smith, James F.,

pension increased ..

2543

Smith, Jefferson K. ,

pension increased.

2373

Smith, Joel R. ,

pension increased....

2673

Smith, John,

pension increased ......

2122

Smith, John,

payment to heirs of.

2658

Smith, John, Indian Allottee,

appropriation for purchase of land for............. 1045

Smith, John A. , New York Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2524

Smith, John A. , Wisconsin Volunteers,

pension increased .

2573

Smith, John F.,

pension increased ....

2003

Smith, John H.,

pension increased ....

2188

Smith, John L. ,

pension increased..

1778

Smith, John M. , Illinois Volunteers,

pension increased ....

2685

Smith, John M. , Mexican War,

pension increased...

2651

Smith, John R. ,

pension increased..

2502

Smith, John T.,

pension increased ..

2359

Smith, Joseph,

pension increased...

1556

Smith, Joseph Leonard, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

373

Smith, Lawrence B.,

pension increased.

1525

Smith, Lorenzo W.,

pension increased.

2146

Smith, Mary J. (widow),.

pension increased ..

2393

Smith, Melville A. ,

pension increased .

1462

Smith, Morris,

pension increased..

2022

Smith, Oliver P.,

pension increased....

1448

INDEX.

3605

Smith, Oliver T., pension increased.

Page. 2065

Smith, Orren R.,

pension increased.

1750

Smith, Robert,

pension increased .

2288

Smith, Robert K.,

pension increased .

1549

Smith, Samuel, Illinois Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2039

Smith, Samuel, Pennsylvania Volunteers,

pension increased ..

2202

Smith, Samuel B. ,

pension increased .

2184

Smith, Sanford C. H.,

pension increased .

1672

Smith, Sarah (mother),

pension...

2006

Smith, Sidney G.,

pension increased .

1547

Smith, Sidney R.,

pension increased .

1660

Smith, Stephen C.,

pension increased .

1970

Smith, Stephen G.,

pension increased .

1698

Smith, Susan C. (widow),

pension....

1872

Smith, Hon. Thomas A.,

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses..

661

Smith, Thomas J. , Florida Volunteers,

pension increased .

2021

Smith, Thomas J. , Missouri Volunteers ,

pension increased .

2480

Smith, Thomas R.,

pension increased .

2114

Smith, Wesley,

pension increased...

1767

Smith, W. A. ,

deficiency appropriation for extra services . 43

for extra month's pay....

660, 1394

Smith, William,

pension increased ..

1732

Smith, William, and Associates,

may bridge Tug Fork of Big Sandy River,

Williamson, W. Va..

69

Smith, William A. ,

pension increased .

2262

Smith, William E.,

pension increased .

1674

Smith, William H.,

pension increased .

1962

Smith, William M.,

pension increased .

1638

Smithers, Harriet M. (widow) ,

pension...

2071

Smithson, Judiah B.,

pension increased ..

2718

Smithsonian Institution,

appropriation for international exchanges . 704, 1310

for American Ethnology

704, 1310

for International Catalogue of Scientific

Literature ....

704, 1310

for Astrophysical Observatory

704, 1310

for National Museum...

704, 1311

for National Zoological Park for improvement, etc. , of grounds for printing and binding...

704, 1311 733, 1341 760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for American

Ethnology .

1403

reappointment of George Gray on Board of

Regents .....

1419

VOL XXXIV, PT 3-64

Smithsonian Institution- Continued .

Page.

reappointment of Richard Olney on Board

of Regents

822

Andrew D. White on Board of Regents . 827

Smokeless Powder, Navy, appropriation for...

558, 1180

Smoker, William ,

pension increased ..

2547

Smoot, Hon. Reed,

deficiency appropriation for reimburse-

ment for expenses...

1395

Smyrna, Turkey. classification and salary of consul. appropriation for clerk hire....

99 294, 924

Smyrna River, Del.,

appropriation for improvement of.

1081

preliminary examination of, to be made . 1112

Smyth, Robert C.,

pension increased ..

1437

Snake River, Alaska,

time extended for completing improve-

ment of....

1109

Snake River, Oreg . , Wash., and Idaho,

appropriation for improvement of .

1107

bridge authorized across, at Lewiston ,

Idaho ..

98

between Whitman and Columbia coun-

ties, Wash .

107

Snare and Triest Company,

claim referred to Court of Claims................ 2567

Snell, John C.,

pension increased ....

2690

Snell, Thomas,

pension increased .

2295

Snell, William R.,

pension increased .

2054

Snoddy, Thomas A.,

pension increased .

2765

Snodgrass, Elijah J.,

pension increased .

1577

Snohomish River, Wash. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made . 1118

Snook, Jonathan,

pension increased .

2081

Snouse, John,

pension increased .

1678

Snow and Ice, D. C., appropriation for removing from cross

walks and gutters....

495, 1132

Snow, Chauncey M.,

pension increased..

2726

Snowy Mountains Forest Reserve, Mont.,

proclamation establishing

3246

Snyder, Amos,

pension increased ....

2329

Snyder, John,

pension increased .

2694

Snyder, Simon A. ,

pension increased ..

1953

Soils Bureau, Department of Agriculture, appropriation for salaries . for general expenses .. tobacco industry.

687, 1272 687, 1273 687, 1273

Soldier, Taylor, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

345

Soldiers and Sailors Orphans' Homes, State,

issue authorized of obsolete ordnance for

drill and instruction .....

817

Soldiers Home, D. C.,

deduction from pay of retired men for, re-

pealed..

242

Soldiers' Homes (sec National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers).

3606

INDEX .

Solicitorfor the Department of State,
appropriation for... for assistant solicitors .

Page. 440, 985 402, 948

Solicitor-General, appropriation for .
Solicitor of Customs,

440, 985

appointment of, and assistants ; duties, sal-

aries, etc.

763

Solicitor of Internal Revenue, appropriation for....

.. 440, 985

Solicitor of the Department of Commerce and

Labor,,

appropriation for, clerks, etc.

441, 986

Solicitor of the Treasury,

appropriation for, assistant, clerks, etc.. 441, 986

for law books ...

441 , 986

Sons of the American Revolution, D. C. , Na-

tional Society ofthe,

incorporated; powers, etc ..

227

Sons of Veterans, D. C. ,

punishment for unauthorized wearing in-

signia of..

62

Sorghum ,

appropriation for investigation of sugar pro-

duction from...

681 , 1267

Sorrell, Augustine,

pension increased ..

2594

"Sotie R," Barge,

refund of fine on .

2361

Sours, Abram,

pension increased..

2334

South and Western Railroad Company, Ky. ,

Va., and Tenn.,

may bridge Clinch River and branches, Va. 191

Holston River and branches, Va. and

Tenn..

191

South and Western Railroad Company, Va., may bridge Clinch River and branches, Va. 191

Holston River and branches, Va. and

Tenn .

191

South Bend, Ind.,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized .

775

appropriation for..

790, 1304

rent..

1304

South, Benjamin R. ,

pension increased..

1881

South Carolina,

school funds, Saint Helena and Saint Luke

parishes, to be transferred to..

893

appropriation for...........

893

South Carolina Judicial District,

terms of court at Charleston..

1002

Columbia..

1002

Florence..

1002

Greenville .

1002

South Chicago, Ill .,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for..

794

South Dakota,

appropriation for Indian service in .... 369, 1046

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in..

370, 1047

for surveyor-general , clerks , etc

436, 981

for school section , Rosebud Reservation

for ....

1231

deficiency appropriation for incidental ex-

penses, Indian service in..

38

Battle Mountain Sanitarium Reserve, es-

tablished ...

83

bridge authorized across Missouri River in

Walworth County..

193

South Dakota- Continued.

Page.

grant of lands for cemetery to Keystone

Camp, Modern Woodmen....

128

Scandinavian Lutheran, etc. , congrega-

tion .....

122

homestead entries in Black Hills Forest Re-

serve, subject to mining, etc. , rights. 234 homesteaders allowed leave of absence.... 1419

time to prove residence, etc., in, ex-

tended ...

1421

obsolete ordnance donated to..

1420

opening to homestead entry, part of Lower

Brule Reservation ....

124

sale of portion of Rosebud Indian Reserva-

tion in ...

1230

Short Pines Forest Reserve, established ... 3129

tract for buffalo pasture to be leased in

Stanley County.

61

South Edisto River, S. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1117

South, Hamilton D. ,

payment to .

2657

South Harpswell, Me. ,

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor..

1113

South Haven, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

restriction....

1096

use for dredging authorized , of appropria-

tion for improving harbor.....

897

South McAlester, Ind. T.,

consolidation into McAlester ratified ...... 91

South McAlester, Okla.,

terms of court..

275

South Norwalk, Conn., appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1076
South Omaha, Nebr. ,

time extended for bridging Missouri River

at..

817

South Omaha Railroad and Bridge Company,

time extended for bridging Missouri River,

by...

817

South Pass, Mississippi River, La.,

appropriation for expenses of maintenance

of channel ..

739

for improvement of channel ; contracts .. 1089 South Platte Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

proclamation consolidating, with Pikes

Peak Forest Reserve ...

3029

South River, N. C. , preliminary examination of, to be made ...
South River, N. J., appropriation for improvement of. ........
South West Pass, Mississippi River, La.,

1116 1079 .

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ...

737, 1089

dwellings for light-house keepers, thorized .
appropriation for.... Southampton, England,
classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire.......

au323 711
99 293, 924

Southard, Nathaniel, pension increased.
Southerland, James C.,
pension.. Southerlin, Charles D.,
payment to legal representatives of....... Southern Historical Society,

1746 2330 2407

unidentified Confederate battle flags to be

delivered to......

837

Southern States,

appropriation for developing dairy in-

dustry in...

674

INDEX .

3607

Southern Ute Indian Reservation,

Page.

purchase of desert lands in former, au-

thorized; payment...........

1056

Southern Ute Indians,

lands in La Platte County, Colo. , leased

to P. F. U. Rubber Company for

experimental farm

88

Southmayd, Orville H., deficiency appropriation for surveying .... 1388

Southport, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1076

Southwest Ledge, Conn.,

appropriation for light station ..

1317

Southworth, Malek A.,

pension increased ..

1816

Southworth, William A. ,

pension increased ..

1629

Spade, Sam, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ...

345

Spain, appropriation for minister to .

286, 916

for secretary of legation...

287, 917

proclamation announcing reciprocal com-

mercial arrangement with.

3227

Spain, Davia D. (widow),

pension increased ..

2050

Spalding, Charles W. ,

granted honorable discharge......

2823

Spalding, George,

pension increased .

2551

Spangler, Elijah, return from President requested of bill to pension ..
Spangler, Mary C. (widow), pension increased ..
Spanish Treaty Claims Commission,

2829 1692

Special and Select Committees, House of Repre- Page. sentatives,

appropriation for expenses...

396, 942

deficiency appropriation for ex-

penses...

120, 662, 1396

Special Assessment Office, D. C., appropriation for clerks...

487, 1123

Special Delivery, Postal Service,
appropriation for car fare . for fees to messengers...

472, 1211 472, 1211

deficiency appropriation for fees .. 42, 1391 , 1404

by ordinary stamps permitted after July 1 ,

1907 ..

1244

Special Employees, House of Representatives,

appropriation for.

395, 941

Special Facilities, Postal Service,

appropriation for, Washington to Atlanta

and New Orleans ..

475

Kansas City to Newton , Kans ..

475

Special Reports, Census Office,

decennial collection of statistics for ; sub-

jects ....

218

street railway, electric, telephone and tele-

graph statistics to be collected every

five years..

219

Special Taxes, Internal Revenue, collectors to keep list of persons paying... 387
copy to prosecuting officers of State, etc. 387

Speckhart, C. L.,

payment to..

2662

Speed, Andrew J.,

pension increased ..

1886

Speed Regulations , D. C.,

for automobiles and other vehicles ......

621

Spelman, William O.,

pension increased ..

2706

appropriation for defense of suits before . 752, 1359 Spencer, Andrew,

for taking testimony abroad...

752, 1359 pension increased .

2519

payment of costs by claimants ..

1359 Spencer, James,

deficiency appropriation for paying

pension increased .

2172

awards ..

45, 665, 1400 Spencer, James W.,

Spanish War Veterans, United, punishment for unauthorized wearing in-

deficiency appropriation for credits in

accounts .

654

signia of, in District .

62 Spencer, William K.,

Spanogle, Charles A. , alias Andrew C. ,

pension increased .

1591

pension increased . Spanton, Thomas,

2340 Sperry, James H.,

pension increased ..

2361

pension increased .

2454 Sperry, Mortimer F.,

Sparkman, Phoebe E. (widow ),

pension increased ..

2174

pension increased .

2583 Sphar, John,

Sparks, Henry L.,

pension increased .

1791

pension increased .

2368 Spice, Jeremiah,

Sparks, Josephine V. (widow),

pension increased .

1620

pension.. Sparks, William W.,

2222 Spicely, Marie J. (widow),

pension increased .

1832

pension.. Sparling, Joseph J.,
pension increased .
Sparrow, Thomas, pension increased .
Spartanburg , S. C. ,

2664 Spielman, Louisa (widow),

pension increased.

1983

1576 Spier, Catherine (widow) ,

pension...

1780

1767 Spinning, Samuel B.,

pension increased..

1516

appropriation for public building.

699 Spirits, Denatured (see Denatured Alcohol) .

Spaulding, John, pension increased ..

Spitzer, Gottlieb, alias Gottfried Bruner,

1965 pension increased ..

1713

Spaulding, Mae (widow),

pension..

2125

Speaker ofthe House of Representatives,

appropriation for secretary, clerks , etc ...... 392, 938

compensation established .

993

Spearfish, S. Dak ,

appropriation for fish hatchery...

1329

Split Rock, Lake Superior,

light station established at .

996

appropriation for ..

1319

Splitlog, Mathias, Indian Allottee, conveyance of lands to Roman Catholic

Church by, authorized ...

1029

Spokane and Inland Empire Railway Com-

pany.

Special Agents, Interior Department,·

granted right of way through Fort Wright

appropriation for salary and expenses ... 433 , 979 !

Military Reservation , Wash ..

865

3608

INDEX .

Spokane Indian Reservation,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for surveying ......... 654

sale of town-site, etc. , tract; proceeds .

377

Spokane Indians, Wash.,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with . 377, 1050

Spokane, Wash. ,

appropriation for public building.

1304

granted immediate transportation privi-

leges.....

168

limit of cost increased , public building ... 774

Sponges,

landing, etc., taken by diving in Gulf of Mexico or Florida straits prohibited . 313

deep water between October and May

excepted ..

313

minimum size permitted ..

313

penalty for violations; prosecutions .

313

enforcement ..

314

Sprauer, Joseph,

pension increased ....

2079

Sprigg, W. Va.,

bridge authorized across Tug Fork of Big

Sandy River near

1234

Spring, Charles B.,

pension increased ..

2803

Springfield Arsenal, Mass . ,

appropriation for care , etc.. for fire protection.......

732, 1340 1340

Springfield, Ill. ,

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing..

31

Springfield, Mass .,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized ..

775

appropriation for..

790, 1304

Springfield, Ohio,

acquiring land for, and extending public

building at, authorized ...

775

appropriation for.

791, 1304

Springsteed, Hilton,

pension increased .

1956

Sprinkle, Michael J.,

pension increased .

2424

Sproul, Andrew J.,

pension increased .

2608

Sproull, James A. ,

pension increased ..

1962

Sprouse, William,

pension increased ..

1819

Spruell, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ...

2248

Square 330, Washington, D.C.,

alleys in, to be closed; reversion ...

847

Square 547, Washington, D. C.,

alleys in, to be closed ; reversion, payment

for lands deeded ..

547

Square 1117, Washington, D. C. , sale of part of, to Sidney Bieber directed.. 787

Square 1131, Washington, D. C. , sale to Sidney Bieber directed
Squares 1117, 1123, 1131, 1148, and 1149, Washington, D. C.,
sale of land between Anacostia River and ;
payment.... Sriver, Albert,
pension increased ..

787
1237 2160

Staab, Sophie M. (daughter) ,

pension...

2179

Stabler, Charles, or Ge u ka, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .....

357

Stabler, Roy Owens D. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

356

Stackhouse, T. B. ,

payment to...

2409

Stacy, John H., pension...
Stafford, Charles N., pension increased .
Stahle, Edward F. , payment to.
Stair, Charles, pension increased .
Stalcup, John R., pension increased ..

Page. 1934 2800 1771 * 2175 1712

Stalcup, Susan R. (widow), pension..
Staley, James, allowance in accounts of....

2156 372, 1768

Staley, Marquis D. L.,

pension increased..........

1705

Stamford, Conn., appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1076

Stamp Division, Post-Office Department,

appropriation for superintendent, clerks,

etc.

438, 983

Stamped Envelopes,

appropriation for manufacture; distribu-

tion ....

475, 1214

deficiency appropriation for manufac-

ture ..

833, 1392

Stamper, Lucinda (mother),

pension increased ..

1490

Stamps, Consular Documentary,

to be affixed for all official acts.

102

acts not legally valid without canceled,

affixed ....

102

Standard Telephone Company (Limited),

act of Hawaii granting telephone franchise

on island of Oahu ratified

309

Standards Bureau, Department of Commerce and Labor,

appropriation for Director, assistants, etc. 445, 990

for apparatus, etc

445, 991

for contingent expenses..

446, 991

member, International Committee

of Weights and Measures..

446, 991

delegate, International Committee

of Electrical Units ..

446, 991

for care of grounds, etc

446, 991

deficiency appropriation for equipment ... 1403

Standing Rock Agency, N. Dak.,

appropriation for Indian agent at ...... 360, 1041

Standing Rock Band of Sioux Indians,

additional allotment of timber lands to

members ....

1041

Standing Rock Indian Reservation, N. Dak.,

appropriation for completing surveys .

361

deficiency appropriation for surveys.

1403

allottee may sell land for railroad rights of

way.

1047

Stanfield, Solomon,

pension increased ..

2612

Stang, Paul,

pension increased ....

1867

Stanislaus Forest Reserve, Cal.,

proclamation enlarging .

3229

Stanley County, S. Dak.,

tract for buffalo pasture to be leased in ... 61

Stanley, Henderson,

pension increased ..

2724

Stannah, Ment, pension increased ..

2518 ,

Stannah, Samuel J., pension increased.

1786

Stansil, Alfred B. ,

pension increased ..

2652

Stanyan, Julia A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1483

INDEX.

3609

Staplins, Robert, pension increased ..

Page. 1934

Star Routes, Postal Service,

appropriation for mail transportation by. 472, 1211

discontinued when duplicated by rural

delivery.....

472, 1211

deficiency appropriation for mail trans-

portation by.

658, 668, 1391, 1404, 1405

Starch Producing Plants,

appropriation for chemical investigations

of

684, 1272

Stark, Marion W. (widow),

pension..

1794

Stark, Mary M. (widow),

pension increased ..

1707

Starkey, Luther H.,

pension increased ..

2344

Starkins, Jennie P. (widow),

pension increased .

1888

Starr, William E.,

pension increased ..

2099

State Claims,

readjustment of claim of Rhode Island for

expenses, war with Spain ....

214

State Department (see Department of State) .

State Homesfor Volunteer Soldiers,

appropriation for aid to ; restrictions .... 749, 1356

deficiency appropriation for........ 34, 644, 1383 State Libraries,

distribution of documents to ..

1014

State National Bank, Denison, Tex.,

appropriation for payment from Chickasaw

funds, legislative expenses..

345

State Surveys, Points to, appropriation for furnishing...

714, 1322

State, War, and Navy Department Building,

appropriation for clerks, engineers, watch-

men, etc ...

422, 968

for new boilers..

422

for fuel, repairs, etc ...
for renewing heating, etc. , plant . available for skilled assistants ..

422, 968 968 1382

deficiency appropriation for fuel, etc

35

Statement of Appropriations, appropriation for preparing...

759, 1364

States,

appropriation for aid to agricultural col-

leges of, increased ....

1281

deficiency appropriation for refund to ,

raising volunteers ...

46, 666

annual appropriations for agricultural ex-

periment stations increased ; condi-

tions ..

63

issue of heavy ordnance for permanent

militia encampment repealed

1060

naturalization of aliens by courts of record ,

etc., in...

596

proclamation inviting militia of, to participate in Jamestown celebration .. 3205

ten per cent of receipts from forest reserves

in, to be paid for schools and roads . 684, 1270

States, New (see Admission of New States).

Stationery, Postal Service,

appropriation for ..........

476, 1214

Statistics Bureau, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries...

690, 1276

for general expenses. issue of monthly crop reports .

691, 1276 691, 1276

cotton condition reports....

691 , 1276

for expenses extending foreign markets

for agricultural products ................ 691 , 1276

Statistics Bureau, Department of Commerce and

Labor,

appropriation for chief, clerks, etc. for experts, etc.

444, 989 444, 989

Statistics Bureau, Department of Commerce and Page.

Labor- Continued.

appropriation for collating foreign tariffs .. 444

for rent

446, 991

Statistics, Census Office,

appropriation for procuring..

443

Statue of Liberty, N. Y. Harbor, deficiency appropriation for equipping, etc.. 644
Statues (see Monuments). Statutes at Large (see also Laws of Congress),

appropriation for preparing a new index

to .

753, 946

number increased for Department of Jus-

tice ...

1426

Statutes at Large, Consolidated Index to,

deficiency appropriation for preparing ..... 1395

Statutes at Large, New Index,

appropriation for.

753, 946

deficiency appropriation for expediting

preparation of .

1399

printing, etc., of new index to be similar

to regular volumes ..

1398

Staubs, Josiah F.,

pension increased ..

1932

Stauff, Jacob,

pension increased .

2192

Stauffer, Henry,

pension increased ..

2354

Stauffer, William D. ,

pension increased ..

1514

Stavanger, Norway,

classification and salary of consul ......

100

Steam Machinery, Navy,
appropriation for completion, repairs, etc.. 575, 1197 .

Steam Vessels,

restriction on location of fire pumps, modi-

fied ..

797

space, etc. , requirements for emigrant pas-

sengers on ...

910

Steamboat, etc. , Routes, Postal Service,

appropriation for mail transportation by. 472, 1211

deficiency appropriation for mail transpor-

tation by.

658, 1392

Steamboat-Inspection Service,

appropriation for Supervising Inspector-

General, clerks, etc ...

444, 989

credit to William L. Soleau, înspectors'

meeting.. for rent.

444 446, 991

0000 0000 00 8 8

all steam vessels navigating United States

waters subject to ...

68

public vessels and canal boats excepted . 68

foreign passenger vessels to be inspected

in American ports....

68

foreign inspection accepted reciprocally. 68

fees to be same as charged on American

vessels .....

68

waived on discontinuance by foreign

country...

68

regular passenger vessels may return to

home port for inspection..

69

board of supervisors, meetings ..

881

regulations by; whistling of steam ves-

sels ....

881

executive committee; powers and du-

ties .......

881

approval of safety appliances..

881

certificate after inspection is made and ves-

sel approved..

230

issue of temporary, for use until official

copy is received .

230

effect of; revocation ..

231

navigating without unexpired , forbidden. 231

3610

INDEX.

Steamboat-Inspection Service-Continued . ferryboat, yacht, etc., inspection . engineer and pilot required ............

Page. 194 194

open steam faunches, 10 gross ton- or

less ....

194

Sterling Hydraulic Company, may erect, etc. , power plant on Rock River, Ill.; conditions..
Stern, Bettie (widow), pension increased..

motor-propelled vessels, inspection . fishing vessels excepted .. penalties for violations..
regulations for motor boats less than 15

194 Stern, Henry C., 194 pension increased .
194 Sternberg , Henry G., pension increased.

tons carrying passengers...

194 Stettin, Germany,

gasoline for motor boats allowed on vessels

classification and salary of consul .........

not carrying passengers for hire..... inspectors of hulls and boilers for ports of
Juneau and Saint Michaels, Alaska, and Point Pleasant , W. Va ..

204 Stevens, Annie M. (widow) , pension increased .
Stevens County, Wash. , 106 bridge authorized across Pend d'Oreille

abolished for district of Alaska, and ports

of Gallipolis, Ohio, and Wheeling,

W. Va.

-106

River at Big Falls ... dam authorized across Pend d'Oreille
River in.

licenses of masters, etc., to be displayed within forty-eight hours...
emergency transfers excepted . licensing of masters, etc. , of steam vessels,
and masters of sail vessels... penalty for service without license ..

Stevens, Edgar A. , 897 1 pension increased . 897 Stevens, Evarts C. ,
pension increased .
864 Stevens, Francis E. , 864 pension increased .

Steammill, Ga., bridge authorized across Chattahoochee River at

Stevens, John M., pension increased .
931 Stevens, Margaret ( widow),

Steck, Henry J., pension increased .
Steeb, J. Tennant, refund of duties to..
Steel, John M.,

1581 2658

pension..
Stevens, Martha (widow), pension...
Stevens, Milton, pension increased .

pension increased ..
Steel, Unity A. (widow), pension increased ..

1795 Stevens, Thomas F. , pension increased .
2397 Stevens , Thomas J.,

Steele, Hiram, pension increased .
Steeles Bayou, Miss.,

pension... 2391 Stepveennssi,onTriuncmraenasCe.d,.

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1114 Stevenson, Hugh,

Steenrod, Edwin R.,

pension increased .

pension increased .
Steensrud, Inger A. (widow), pension increased .
Stegal, William,

1969 Stewart, Emeline A. (widow), pension increased .
2737 Stewart, George, pension increased .

pension....

2487

Stegman, Henry,

pension increased.

2679

Stegman, Lewis R. ,

pension increased .

1968

Stell, James W.,

pension increased ..

1568

Stenographers to Committees , House of Repre-

sentatives , appropriation for..

396, 942

deficiency appropriation for...

662, 1398

Stephens, Annie C. (widow),

pension increased .

2743

Stephens, Elisha H. ,

pension increased .

2285

Stephens, John W. ,

pension increased .

2094

Stephens, Martha A. L. (widow),

Stewart, George W., pension increased .
Stewart, James T., pension increased .
Stewart, James W., pension increased .
Stewart, Palmer, pension increased .
Stewart, Robert, pension increased .
Stewart, William C., pension increased .
Stewart, William John, alias John Scott, pension increased .
Stewart, William K., pension increased.
Stewart, William L., pension increased.

pension ...

2784 Stewart, William . T.,

Stephens, Wilbur C.,

pension increased .

granted honorable discharge ..

2219 Stichter, John W.,

pension increased .

Stephenson Grand Army Memorial, D. C.,

Stidger, Felix G.,

commission created to select site for.

1424

appropriation for preparation of site, etc .. 1424 pension increased .

former resolution repealed...

1424 Stiehl, Henry D. ,

pension increased ..

Stephenson, Levi M..

Stiles, Wilbur A.,

pension increased .

2679 pension increased ..

Sterling, Daniel G.. pension increased .

Stiles, William H., 1782 pension increased ..

Page. 1103 1997 1461 1442
100 2020
199 931 2808 2728 1539 2797 2011 2577 2554 2117 1587 1904 2777 1996 1783 2597 2434 2233 1775 2372 1460 1523 2001 2785 1997 2504 1562 1967 2727 2685

INDEX .

3611

Stillman, George, pension increased ..
Stillwell, Nancy (widow), pension increased ..
Stilwell, Timothy C., pension increased .

Page . 2220
1526
2281

Stilwill, Spencer C.,

pension increased.

1945

Stimon, Henry,

pension increased .

1748

Stimpson, James H., pension increased ..
Stinehour, Truman R. , pension increased..
Stiner, William H. , and Sons, penal duties remitted .
Stines, Joseph E., pension increased ..
Stinson, A. J., payment to.
Stinson, James, pension increased ...
Stinson, John, payment to .
Stockbridge and Munsee Indian Reservation, Wis . ,
allotments in fee simple to members of tribe .
Stockbridge and Munsee Indians, Wis. , allotments in fee simple to ; distribution .. cash commutation .. securing additional land .
payment for improvement swamp-land selections
expenses from tribal fund .
shares of minors, etc. , in trust funds may
be paid to guardians .... Stockbridge, Wis.,
appropriation for improvement of harbor .. Stocker, Alfred A.,
pension increased .

2252 1842 2411 1652 2410 2534 2409
382 382 383 383 383 383 356 1101 2276

Stockholm, Sweden,

classification and salary of consul-general .. 99

appropriation for clerk hire......

294, 924

Stockley, Charles H.,

granted honorable discharge...........

2339

Stocks, John Gardner,

pension increased ...

1787

Stockton and Mormon Channels, Cal., contracts authorized for completing ....... 1106

Stockton Channel, Cal. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1112

Stockton, Sarah E. (widow),

pension increased..

2729

Stockwell, John A. , alias John Stockwell,

pension increased .

1826

Stoeckig. Louis,

pension increased .

2032

Stoker, Lorenzo D. ,

pension increased .

1592

Stone, Dexter E. W.,

pension increased.

1567

Stone, Ellen L. (widow),

pension increased .

2102

Stone, John N., pension increased .

1474

Stone, John T.,

pension increased...

1434

Stone, Mary M. (widow) ,

pension increased.......

2199

Stone, Oliver M..

pension increased .

1930

Stone, Samuel, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Stone, Simon, pension increased...

Page. 2402

Stone (Swasey), Susan, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

379

Stones Ferry, Ala.,

bridge authorized across Tombigbee River

at .

849

Stonington, Conn.,

appropriation for light-keeper's dwelling,

breakwater..

710

Stony Creek Forest Reserve, Cal., proclamation establishing ..
Storage Charges, schedules required of interstate carriers...
Storey, Joseph M., pension increased .
Storms, Lemuel P., pension increased .

3273 586
2626 1816 i

Storr, Charles W., jr.,

pension increased..

1959

Story, Louisa (widow),

pension increased.

2199

Stott, William T.,

pension increased .

2046

Stouffer, Abraham D. ,

pension increased .

2608

Stoughton, Ellen L. (widow),

pension increased..

2677

Stover, Eli,

pension increased .

2301

Stover, Nathan E.,

pension increased .

2439

Stowell, Henry S.,

pension increased .

1584

Stowell, Walter L., deficiency appropriation for; postal losses . 658

Stowits, George H.,

pension increased ..

1478

Strain, Hugh S. , pension increased .
Straits of Florida, landing, etc., sponges taken by diving from , prohibited ; exception .....
Straits of Mackinac, light station McGulpin Point, Mich . , discontinued .
Strang, Edmund R. , pension increased .
Strang, Walter C.,
appropriation for reimbursing... Strasburg, William,
pension increased . Stratton, Milton,
pension increased

2272
313
996 1473 1291 1752 2324

Street, George D.,

pension increased- .

1576

Street Railway Statistics,

to be collected every five years .

219

Street Railways, D. C., Anacostia and Potomac River, to pay part

of new bridge..

493

extension of line; removal of old tracks . 493

extension authorized , of Washington , Spa

Spring and Gretta Railroad Com-

pany .

894

Street Sweeping Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries...
Street , William J..

487, 1123

pension increased :

1484

Streeter, Urial J.,

pension increased .

1536

Streets , Avenues, etc. , D. C.,

appropriation for purchase, etc. , union rail-

road station , etc..

490, 1126

for improvement of plaza .

1127

3612

INDEX .

Streets, Avenues, etc. , D. C.- Continued.

Page.

appropriation for assessment and permit

work .

490, 1127

for work on..

490, 1127

width of paved streets . for grading..
for condemnation , etc..

1127
490, 1128 491, 1128

for opening, etc. , minor; reimbursement 491 , 1128

for constructing suburban . for repairs...

491 , 1128 492, 1129

immediately available .

1130

for repairs, suburban ..

492, 1130

for sweeping, etc .. contracts authorized ..

495, 1131 495

for removing snow and ice..

495, 1132

deficiency appropriation for cleaning ..

641

building-line provisions on, less than 90

feet wide ....

384

condemnation of land for, proceedings un-

der Code ....

151

damages, etc. , where parts of lots are

taken....

930

cost of extensions to be paid wholly from

District revenues..

517, 1157

use of parking, by adjacent owners, error

corrected .

112

Strickland, Lyman S.,

pension increased

2541

Strickland, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased .

2368

Strong, Elizabeth (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2669

Strong, George A.,

appropriation for damages.

1291

Strong, James C.,

J

pension increased .

2748

Strong, Thomas,

pension increased .

2719

Strope, Joseph,

pension increased .

2355

Strout, Lucy C. (mother), pension.
Structural Materials, Clays, etc.,
appropriation for investigations .... Stuard, Lockey (widow),
pension increased .
Stuart, Delia (widow),

2008 728, 1335
1527

deficiency appropriation for bounty due

husband..

1374

Stuart, John,

payment of bounty to widow of .......

2310

Studdert, Katherine (widow),

pension...

2188

Studdiford, Frederick W. ,

pension increased .

2355

Stuessi, Elizabeth (widow),

pension..

2792

Stukes, Nathaniel M.,

pension increased .

1877

Stults, George I.,

pension increast ,

2559

Stump, Michael,

pension increased ..

1484

Sturgeon Bay and Lake Michigan Ship Canal,

Wis. ,

use of appropriation for dredging, etc ...... 1101

Sturgeon Bay, Ill.,

part of, declared not navigable water ...

1421

Sturgeon, Robert,

pension increased .

2367

Sturgis, William J., pension increased .
Sturm, Frederick C., pension increased .

1577 1664.

Sturtevant, Stephen V. , pension increased .

Page. 1623

Stuttgart, Germany, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire...

99 294, 924

Stuyvesant, Daisy C. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2127

Subers, Burris,

pension increased .

2577

Submarine Defense School, Fort Totten, N. Y.,

appropriation for instruction expenses ..

240

for incidental expenses..

240, 1159

for materials, apparatus, etc.

241, 1159

Submarine Mines, Army,

appropriation for operating. in insular possessions .

463, 1059 1061

for purchase, etc .. insular possessions.

464, 10611062

Submarine or Subsurface Torpedo Boats ,

purchase of, authorized ; tests ..

583

test period extended for...

1204

limit of cost extended ; requirements before

acceptance ..

1204

Subsistence Department, Army,

appropriation for post commissary-ser-

geants; longevity.

242, 1160

for pay of officers; longevity.

244, 1162

for supplies, etc ..

249, 1165

emergency ration, additional to regu-

lar..

1165

for payments; civilian employees, etc 249, 1165

for commutation of rations, etc ..

249, 1165

use of subsistence funds for small pay-

ments..

1166

for transport service ; special diet rations ;

ice, etc..

250, 1166

for prizes for bakers and cooks .

250, 1166

for additional supplies, relief of earth-

quake sufferers ..

827

for further relief ; extra expenses .

828

deficiency appropriation for supplies ....

46,

646, 666, 1401

sale permitted from Fort Assinniboine to

citizens of Montana..

1421

"Success, " Steamer,

granted American register....

881

Suddarth, Greenberry,

pension increased.

1468

Sugar, Max,

payment to..

2662

Sugar Producing Plants,

appropriation for chemical investigations

of..

686, 1272

Sugar Production,

appropriation for inquiry of beet, sorghum ,

etc.

681 , 1267

Sugs , Lawyer,

pension increased

1982

Suis Sis Kin, or Loupe Loupe Charley, Indian

Allottee,

fee-simple title to.

379

Suisun Channel, Cal.,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1112

Sullivan, Beverly W.,

pension increased .

2598

Sullivan, Cornelius,

pension :..

2145

Sullivan, Daniel, Massachusetts Volunteers,

pension increased .

2596

Sullivan, Daniel, Minnesota Volunteers,

pension increased .

2226

Sullivan, Ellen (widow),

pension increased .

2498

Sullivan, Florence,

pension increased .

1974

INDEX.

3613

Sullivan, Frances A. (widow), pension increased .

Page. 2138

Sullivan, J. E., payment to...

... 2662

Sullivan, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

2368

Sullivan, Sarah Agnes (widow),

pension..

2120

Sulphur River, Tex. and Ark. ,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1092

Sulphur Springs Reservation, Okla. ,

exclusive jurisdiction by United States

over, continued .

272

excluded from selection of school lands,

etc. , by Oklahoma ...

272

name changed to Platt National Park...

837

Summers, Catherine (widow),

pension increased .

1758

Summers, Harriett B. (daughter),

pension....

1838

Summit Place NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands for extend-

ing...

846

appropriation for.

846

name of Geneseo place changed to.

846

"Sumner," Army Transport, to convey Commission, etc., to dedication

of monuments Santiago de Cuba bat-

tlefield ..

821

Sumner, John V. ,

pension....

2565

Sumter, S. C.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

781

appropriation for..

793, 1304

Sunday, Lizzie, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed..

345

Sunday School Association, International,

incorporated .

867

Sunderland, Albert,

pension increased .

2590

Sundry Civil Expenses Appropriations,

under the Treasury Department, for public

buildings .

697, 1295

marine hospitals ..

701, 1306

quarantine stations . Life-Saving Service..

701 , 1307 701 , 1307

Revenue- Cutter Service ..

702, 1308

Engraving and Printing Bureau. Smithsonian Institution ...

703, 1309 704, 1310

Interstate Commerce Commission .... 705, 1311

miscellaneous , internal revenue ..

705, 1312

United States securities .

706, 1313

public buildings ...

707, 1313

collecting customs revenue .

1315

Public Health and Marine- Hospital

Service .....

708, 1316

quarantine service ..

709, 1316

prevention of epidemics .. leprosy hospital , Hawaii .

709, 1316 709

under Department of Commerce and Labor,

for immigration service ..

710, 1317

light-houses, beacons, and fog signals . 710, 1317.

Light-House Establishment .

712, 1319

Coast and Geodetic Survey .

713, 1321

Bureau of Fisheries...

717, 1324

miscellaneous , Alaskan seal fisheries . Chinese exclusion .. names from First Census . naturalization division ..
excluding alien labor. child labor investigations .

721 , 1329 722, 1329
722 1329 1330 1330

under Interior Department , for buildings .. 722, 1330

Capitol and grounds ......

722, 1330

Sundry Civil Expenses Appropriations- Con. Page.

under Interior Department, for public

lands

723, 1332

Geological Survey.

726, 1334

miscellaneous , national parks .

729, 1337

Supreme Court Reports..

729, 1337

education, etc. , in Alaska ..

729, 1337

Government Hospital for Insane... 730, 1338

insane, Alaska ...

731

Columbia Deaf and Dumb Institution . 731 ,

1338

Howard University.

731 , 1338

Freedmen's Hospital..

731, 1339

under War Department, for armories and

arsenals...

731, 1339

buildings and grounds, Washington,

D. C ..

733, 1341

traveling expenses of the President ..

1342

Engineer Department ; harbors, etc .. 736, 1344

national cemeteries ...

740, 1346

miscellaneous, military posts ...... 742, 1348

International Waterways Commis-

sion ...

743, 1351

military parks .. artificial limbs, etc .. New York Harbor.
beacons, etc. , Hampton Roads Volunteer Soldiers' Home ..

743, 1349 744, 1350 745, 1351
1351 745, 1351

State and Territorial Homes .

749, 1356

back pay, bounty, and commutation of

rations...

750, 1356

arrears of pay, war with Spain.

750, 1356

distribution of amounts due deceased

officers and enlisted men ...

750

under Department of Justice, for court-

house, Washington , D. C ................... 750, 1357

penitentiaries ..

750, 1357

miscellaneous ..

751 , 1358

defense in claims..

751 , 1358

Spanish Treaty Claims Commis-

sion ..
enforcing antitrust laws .. indexing, digesting, etc. , laws .

752, 1359 752, 1359
753

under judicial branch, for United States

courts ....

753, 1360

United States penitentiaries .

756, 1362

under Department of State, for Bureau of

American Republics, building .

758

court for China . : .

1357

Red Cross conference ..

1357

Rio Grande irrigation dam ..

1357

under Department of Agriculture, for new

buildings ..

758, 1364

under legislative branch, for statement of

appropriations .. Charters and Constitutions ..

759, 1364 759

Botanic Garden .............

759, 1365

Hinds' Parliamentary Precedents .

1365

House of Representatives office building . 1365

for public printing and binding ........ 759 , 1366

for pneumatic tube service to Capitol, etc. 1368

for Isthmian Canal .

761, 1368

Canal Zone funds ; distribution ..

1370

estimates for all printing and binding to be submitted in annual estimates... 762

no other funds to be used for printing

and binding..

762

Joint Commission on Printing continued ;

report on branch offices, etc ..

762

solicitor of customs and assistants author-

ized ; duties, salaries, etc .....

763

appraiser of merchandise , Chicago ; salary

fixed ..

763

annual statement required of all moneys received , not paid into the Treasury. 763

3614

INDEX.

Sundry Civil Expenses Appropriations- Con. Page.

salary accounts, division of payments...

763

court expenses, District of Columbia, half

to be borne by District.....

763

electric plants in executive or municipal

buildings prohibited ; exception .... 1371

sums appropriated to be in full for sala-

ries ...

764, 1371

specific authority required for all appropri-

ations and contracts ..

764

provisions for Jamestown Exposition..

764

Sunflower County, Miss.,

may bridge Sunflower River, Lehrton...... 539

Sunflower River, bridge authorized across, at Lehrton, Miss . 539

Sungode, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled ........ 361

Sunrise, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed...

374

Superintendent of Public Schools, D. C. ,

appointment ; duties ...

317

salary ....

321

to serve on commission on consolidating,

etc., schools...

321

Superior Bay, Lake Superior, appropriation for lighting channel ..... 713, 1320

Superior, Wis.,

appropriation for public building.. 699, 1304

for improvement of harbor.. 738, 1101, 1345

amount for Superior Entry .

1101

board to reexamine , etc ..

1102

granted immediate transportation delivery

privileges .....

631

range fights on pierhead, authorized .

323

deficiency appropriation for..........

659

Supervising Architect ofthe Treasury Department,

appropriation for, assistant, superintend-

ents , etc ..

404, 951

employment of draftsmen, etc .; maxi-

mum; report of employees... 405, 951 employment of additional draftsmen,

etc.

636

for assistant, superintendents, etc. , paid

from public buildings...

405

deficiency appropriation for draftsmen,

etc., amount increased...

1372

for chief, division of equipment ..

1372

to serve on commission on consolidating, etc. , District of Columbia schools... 321

Supplies, Army,

appropriation for general depot , Fort

Mason, Cal....

257

purchases in open market; limit

258

Supplies, United States Courts, appropriation for.. deficiency appropriation for.

756, 1361 1391

Supreme Court, D. C., appropriation for judges, etc.

447, 992

for fees, witnesses .

1148

jurors ....

1148

for pay of bailiffs , etc ...

1148

for miscellaneous expenses ..

1148

for metal cases for clerk's office .. ..... 1331

for printing and binding..

760, 1368

one-half expenses, to be paid from District

revenues ..

763

jurisdiction in naturalization of aliens... 596 to appoint members of board of education . 316

Supreme Court of the United States, appropriation for Chief and
justices... for marshal..
for clerks to justices . for printing and binding.

associate 446, 991 446,991
446, 992 760, 1368

Supreme Court of the United States- Con.

Page.

appeals to, in Interstate Commerce Com-

mission orders ...

592

writs of error in criminal cases allowed

United States to , in certain instances 1246

Supreme Court Reports, appropriation for purchasing. deficiency appropriation for..

729, 1337 1387

Supreme Lodge, Knights of Pythias,

charter amended ; limit of property hold-

ings removed....

934

aggregate real estate allowed ..

934

Surgeon-General's Office, War Department,

appropriation for clerks, etc ..

419, 965

for rent, dispensary.

421, 967

for library...

256, 1173

Survey of Northern and Northwestern Lakes,

appropriation for.

744, 1350

Surveying Public Lands (see also Public Lands),

appropriation for ; rates ..

725, 1333

preferences ; occupied townships .. 725, 1333

allowances, heavily timbered, etc..

lands ...

725, 1333

extra rates, California, etc.

725, 1334

for resurveys; mineral, etc. , locations . 725 , 1334

for abandoned military reservations .. 726, 1334

for reimbursing Utah...

726

forboundary, Idaho and Montana.

726

for marking, etc. , southeastern boundary

of Wyoming..

1334

for reimbursing Washington.

1334

deficiency appropriation for... 47, 667, 1402, 1405

for private land claims..

47

for Fort Buford abandoned military res-

ervation ...

47

for deputy surveyors.

653

for surveys, Indian reservations ..

654

certain townships, Montana, to be sur-

veyed ..

726

Surveyors -General,

appropriation for, and their clerks ...... 434, 979

Surveyor's Office, D. C., appropriation for salaries...

487, 1124

for temporary employees.

487, 1124

Surveys, Ocean and Lake, appropriation for..

560, 1182

Susquehanna River,

appropriation for improvement of, above

and below Havre de Grace, Md ..... 1081

Sutherland, James,

pension increased .

1630

Sutherland, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased .

2255

Sutherlin, Charles W.,

pension increased .

1476

Sutter, Benedict,

pension increased .

2112

Sutter, W. B.,

credit in accounts .

2659

Sutton, George W.,

pension increased .

2019

Sutton, Peter D. ,

pension increased .

1568

Suva, Fiji Islands, classification and salary of consul...---  100
Suwanee River, Fla., appropriation for improvement of ............. 1086

Suydam, Dewayne W.,

pension increased

2700

Swpaednlseiyo, nGeionrcgreeaWs.ed,

2162

Swain, Hiram,

pension increased

1494

Swain, Walter B., pension increased .

.. 2572

INDEX.

3615

Swamp-Land Claims and Indemnity, appropriation for settlement of ..

Page. 724, 1332

Swan Quarter Bay, N. C.,
preliminary examination to be made of waterway to Deep Bay from ...... 1116
Swansboro, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of waterway

between New River and........

1083

Swansea, Wales,

classification and salary of consul....

100

Swartz, Daniel C.,

pension increased .

2735

Swasey, Asa E.,

pension increased .

2739

Swayne, Ellen H. (widow). pension....
Swayze, Benjamin, pension increased .
Sweden, appropriation for minister to . for secretary of legation....... parcels-post convention with

1921
2528
287, 917 287,917
2889

Sweeney, Charles H. ,

pension increased

2177

Sweeney, William H., jr.,

pension...

1943

Sweet, Charles G.,

pension increased

2732

Sweet, Hobart P.,

pension increased .

2600

Sweet Wines (see Fortifying Pure Sweet

Wines).

Sweeting, Theodore J.,

pension increased .

2438

Swendt, Rudolph W. H.,

pension increased

2101

Swett, Edgar P.,

granted indemnity homestead entry ....... 2222

Swift, Frederic W.,

pension increased .

1827

Swiftsure Bank, Juan de Fuca Strait, Wash. ,

appropriation for light vessel ..

711

repealed..

842

light vessel authorized at.

996

appropriation for..

1319

Swigart, Henry,

pension increased .

1928

Swine,

confinement of, in interstate transit with-

out unloading, etc. , forbidden ...... 607

provisions for inspection , etc. , of, carcasses,

and products in interstate and for-

eign commerce .

674, 1260

Swinomish Slough, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1109

Switch Board Operators, Army,

appropriation for extra duty pay.

1163

Switches,

included with railroads in interstate com-

merce regulations ....

584

Switzerland,

appropriation for minister to

287,917

for secretary of legation ....

287, 917

proclamation announcing reciprocal com-

mercial arrangement with..

3185

Swords, Eliza (widow),

pension increased ..

2138

Sycles, Isaiah, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to...

381

Sycles, Sarah, Indian Allottee.

fee-simple title to ..

381

Sydney, New South Wales, classification and salary of consul .... appropriation for clerk hire..

100 294, 924

Sydney, Nova Scotia, classification and salary of consul.........
Syracuse, N. Y. , acquiring site for public building at , authorized ..
appropriation for .

Page. 100
783 795

T.

T Street NE., D. C.,
deficiency appropriation for extending.... 1377 T Street NW., D. C.,

proceedings to condemn lands extending. from Wisconsin avenue to Rock

Creek Park ..

1001

appropriation for..

1001

part of, named California street.

50

Tabriz, Persia,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Tackett, Marine D.,

pension increased .

2461

Tacoma, Wash. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 740

for public building

1304

limit of cost increased , public building.

774

sale of portion of Indian cemetery lands to. 1050

Taggart, Hugh T.,

deficiency appropriation for services.............. 656

Tahiti, Society Islands,

appropriation for rebuilding consular build-

ing

289

classification and salary of consul.

100

Tahoe Forest Reserve, Cal. and Nev. (see also

Lake Tahoe Forest Reserve, Cal .),

proclamation enlarging Lake Tahoe Forest Reserve and changing name to ... 3163

consolidating Yuba Forest Reserve with, and area enlarged ...
Takoma Parish, D. C. , Vestry of. taxes refunded ..

3232 870

Talbot, B. E.,

payment to .

2662

Talbot, C. H.,

payment to...

2662

Talham, Albert A. ,

pension increased .

2294

Taliaferro, William M. and Mary Estella, Indian Allottees,

alienation restrictions removed .

346

Talkington, Inez (daughter),

pension..

1877

Talladega, Ala. ,

bridge authorized across Coosa River at....... 884

Tallahatchie County, Miss..

may bridge Tallahatchie River at Jarman

Ferry .

211

Tallahatchie River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvement of..

1088

between Batesville and the Cold-

water...

1088

bridge authorized across, at Jarman Ferry. 211

Tallant, Thomas H.,

pension increased

1966

Tallman, Jerry W.,

pension increased .

1818

Tamatave, Madagascar,

classification and salary of consul ........................... 100

Tampa Exposition, President requested to hold naval military review at .
Tampico, Mexico, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire..
Tamsui, Formosa,

and 2834
100 294.924

classification and salary of consul..

100

3616

INDEX .

Tanana Mines Railroad Company,

Page.

exempted from tax on railroad in Alaska;

conditions, etc ..

1233

Tang Weah, or Louis , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

378

Tangiers, Morocco,

appropriation for interpreters, etc

289, 919

for Cape Spartel light ....

289, 919

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire..

294, 924

for interpreter at consulate.

924

Tanner, Edward B. ,

pension increased

2323

Tanner, George W. W.,

pension increased

2523

Tanner, Horace B.,

pension increased

2496

Taos County, N. Mex.,

refunding of indebtedness by, allowed ;

terms, interest, etc ...

934

Taos Forest Reserve, N. Mex.,

proclamation establishing

3262

Tappan, George Arthur,

pension increased

2715

Tar River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of.....

1083

Tarbell, G. F.,

refund of duties to ...

1561

Target Practice, Army, Small Arms,

appropriation for ammunition, targets,

Tari medfale s ,

(estece.P..h.ilippine

Tariff,

257, 1905).

1174

Tariffs, Foreign, appropriation for collating,

444, 988

Tariffs, International Bureau for Publication

of Customs, appropriation for annual contribution ... 290, 920

Tarlton, Stephen B. ,

pension increased .

1556

Tarrytown, N. Y. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1078

Tarter, Caleb M.,

pension increased

1906

Tarter, Melroe,

pension increased

2083

Tate, Jane (widow),

pension increased

2732

Tate, Joseph D. ,

pension increased

1689

Tate, Theodore T.,

pension increased

2394

Tathem, John F.,

pension..

1875

Taxation, D. C.,

annual license to store and sell kerosene ,

3333

explosives, etc..

13

fireworks ..

gasoline, etc ..

13

not required of fuel hucksters ..

13

Taxes, D. C.,

appropriation for advertising, in arrears . 489, 1126

Taylor, Alexander M.,

pension increased

1812

Taylor, Alexander W. ,

pension increased

2570

Taylor, David T.,

pension increased

2794

Taylor, Frances E. (widow),

pension .

2129

Taylor, George K. ,

pension increased .

2719

Taylor, George S. ,

pension...

1670

Taylor, James D., pension increased

Page. 2188

Taylor, James E.,

pension increased .

2462

Taylor, John A. J., pension increased

2672

Taylor, Richard C.,

pension increased.

2770

Taylor, William,

pension increased .

2041

Tayman, Sarah A. J. (widow),

pension increased .

1531

Tchula Lake, Miss. ,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1088 Tea- Culture Investigations,

appropriation for..

681, 1267

Teaching, Carnegie Foundation for Advancement of,
incorporated; objects, etc .. Teague, Ambrose Y. ,
pension increased .

59 2030

Teague, Henrietta (widow),

pension increased .

2697

Teas, Joseph B., pension increased .

2004

Tebbetts, Albion W.,

pension increased.

2723

Tebbetts, Joseph F.,

pension increased

1952

Tee ah Ligh, or George, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

378

Teeple, Theodore,

pension increased .

2781

Teeters, Nancy A. (widow), pension .
Teetor, Henry B., pension increased .
Teets, Albert, pension increased

1654 2033 2704

Tegucigalpa, Honduras, classification and salary of consul ......................
Teichner, Stephen, homestead entry granted...

100 2214

Telegraph Connecting Capitol and Departments,

appropriation for care, etc....

735, 1343

Telegraph Operators, Railway,

hours of continuous service by, limited ... 1416

Telegraph Statistics,

to be collected every five years ....

219

Telephone Franchise, Hawaii,

act of legislature granting, island of Oahu,

ratified ..

309

Telephone Statistics,

to be collected every five years ...

219

Telephone Switchboard Operators, pay rated..

448, 993

Temple, Tex.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for .

796

Templeton, Phoebe (daughter),

pension..

2566

Templeton, W. Ira,

pension increased

2552

Templin, William,

pension increased .

2754

Ten Eyck, Martha H. (widow),

pension increased

1926

Tenant, Amos H. ,

pension increased

1463

Tenants Harbor, Me., preliminary examination of, to be made... 1113

INDEX.

3617

Tenders, Light-House Establishment,

Page.

limit of cost increased, third, sixth, elev-

enth, twelfth, and thirteenth dis-

tricts...

858

contracts; may be built at navy-yards.. 858

Teneriffe, Canary Islands,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

Tennessee and Coosa Railroad,

transfers allowed homesteaders on grants in

Alabama, to....

1408

Tennessee Eastern Judicial District, terms of court, Chattanooga.. Greeneville..

298, 882 298

Tennessee Middle Judicial District, terms of court, Nashville ...

298, 882

Tennessee River,

appropriation for improvement of, below

Chattanooga..

739

above Chattanooga..

1093

from Chattanooga to Riverton ..

1093

at Hales bar..

1093

at Colbert and Bee Tree Shoals ; con-

tracts...

1093, 1346

below Riverton .

1094

Scotts Point .

739

for lighting..

713 , 1320

bridge authorized across, between Brandons

Mill and Birmingham , Ky ..

56, 1253

Chattanooga, Tenn ...

388

dams, etc., authorized at Muscle Shoals,

Ala. , for power stations ..

52

permits withheld .........

-1094

return from President requested of bill for

dams at Muscle Shoals of...................... 2829

Tennessee Rolling Works, Ky., bridge authorized across Cumberland River,

between Lineport , Tenn. and .... 58, 1254

Tenney, Marcus D.,

pension increased

2246

Tensas River, La. and Ark. , appropriation for improvement of........ 1090

Tents, etc., Army,

loan authorized to Jamestown Exposition;

conditions ......

1175

Terminal Charges, schedules required of interstate carriers... 586

Terminal Facilities,

included with railroads in interstate com-

merce regulations ...

584

Terminal Station , D. C. (see Union Railroad

Station, D. C.) .

Terrell, Jonathan,

pension increased

1530

Terrill, Mark W., pension increased .

2579

Terrill, Newton E.,

pension increased .

1594

Territorial Homes for Volunteer Soldiers, appropriation for aid to ; restrictions ... 749, 1356

deficiency appropriation for .................. 34 , 644, 1383

Territorial Libraries,

distribution of documents to .......

1014

Territories,

appropriation for government in the .... 416, 963

for aid to agricultural colleges of, in-

creased ..

1281

acknowledgment of deeds affecting lands,

etc., by notaries, Guam, Samoa, or

Canal Zone..

552

annual appropriation for agricultural ex-

periment stations increased ; condi-

tions..

63

courts of record, etc. , given jurisdiction in

naturalization of aliens...

596

Territories -Continued .

Page.

proclamation inviting militia of, to partici-

pate in Jamestown celebration ..... 3205

ten per cent of receipts from forest reserves

in, to be paid for schools and

roads...

684, 1270

Terry, Fannie J. (widow),

pension increased .

2520

Terry, John H.,

pension increased ...

2765

Testimony, competency of witnesses in civil cases,

Federal courts, to follow State or

Territorial laws....

618

Texarkana, Tex.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

781

appropriation för... Texas,

794, 1304

appropriation for improvement of inland

waterway on coast of......

1091

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing, defense of frontier, etc. , 1855-1860. 645

irrigation act extended to ....

259

Sabine customs collection district estab-

lished ...

302

title to certain lands in, relinquished to

heirs of W. T. Scott .....

1285

Texas City, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of channel

from Galveston to ...

1091

preliminary examination of channel, to be

made ...

1117

Texas Southern Judicial District,

new division established ..

121

terms, Victoria .

121

Texas Western Judicial District,

new division established..

226

terms, Del Rio ; suits, etc ..

226

Thackara, Mary (widow),

pension increased .

2039

Thames River, Conn.,

appropriation for lighting.

713, 1320

for improvement of..

1076

Thanks of Congress,

extended to General Horace Porter, for re-

covering body of Admiral John Paul

Jones..

829

Thanksgiving Day,

proclamation designating as, Thursday,

November 30, 1905 ..

3184

Thursday, November 29, 1906

3242

Tharp, John H.,

payment to..

1770

Thayer, Ransom O.,

pension increased

1506

Theall, Susan S. (widow),

pension increased ...

1863

Third Assistant Postmaster-General,

appropriation for, superintendents, etc. 438 , 983

for postal service, office of..

475, 1214

forstamps, postal cards, etc ..

475 , 1214

for travel and miscellaneous ex-

penses .

476 , 1214

for counsel second-class mail matter

suits ....

476, 1214

employee to sign warrants, etc. , for Post-

master-General..

1206

Third Light- House District,

appropriation for tender for inspector.... 1317

limit of cost increased .

858

tender authorized for ..

995

appropriation for.

1318

3618

INDEX .

Thirteenth Light-House District,

Page.

tender for inspection service authorized ;

balance ....

324

limit of cost increased .

858

appropriation for......

660, 1318

Thomas, Alanson B.,

pension increased

1532

Thomas, Clarence W.,

pension ....

2789

Thomas, Cora B. ,

deficiency appropriation for salary; to he continued on the rolls for five years.
Thomas, David, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to .
Thomas, Elizabeth (widow ), pension increased .
Thomas, Erastus A. , pension increased.
Thomas, George,
pension .. Thomas, George J. ,
pension increased Thomas, Hannah J. K. (widow),
pension increased . Thomas, Henry G.,
granted honorable discharge.. Thomas, Hiram B.,
pension increased . Thomas, Jeremiah,
pension increased . Thomas, Jesse A. ,
pension increased . Thomas, John W.,
pension increased Thomas, Lucy A. (widow) ,
pension... Thomas, Margaret, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to .. Thomas, Samuel , Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to... Thomas, Webster,
pension increased . Thomas, William,
pension increased Thompson, Abel S.,
pension increased

27 357 2105 2511 1850 2122 2051 2139 2157 2710 1853 2016 2168 381 357 1622 2788 1600

Thompson, Ada A. (widow),

pension increased` .

1840

Thompson, Addison,

pension increased

2512

Thompson, Ann (widow),

pension increased .

2216

Thompson, Ann J. (widow),

pension increased`.

1948

Thompson, Arcatie E. (widow),

pension increased .

1901

Thompson, Arthur,

pension increased .

1645

Thompson, Charles H.,

pension increased .

2210

Thompson, Clara M. (widow),

pension..

1597

Thompson, Elijah, alias Elijah Thompson

Hurst,

pension increased .

1443

Thompson. Eliza (widow),

pension increased ..

1601

Thompson, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased .

1894

Thompson, Emanuel S.,

pension ..

1882

Thompson, F. L., deficiency appropriation for extra services . 1396

Thompson, George M.,

pension increased .

1908

Thompson, Gustavus A., pension increased .
Thompson, Harry, payment to .
Thompson, James, pension increased
Thompson, Knute, pension increased
Thompson, Lyman, pension increased
Thompson, Mary E. (widow), pension..
Thompson, Peter G., pension increased
Thompson, Philip B., pension increased
Thompson, Samuel D. , pension increased
Thompson, Samuel S., pension increased .
Thompson, Sarah A. (widow), pension..
Thompson, Thomas B. , pension increased
Thompson, William C. , pension increased .
Thompson, William J., pension increased .
Thorn, John O., pension increased .
Thornburgh, Thomas H. , pension increased
Thorne, Delphie (widow), pension increased .
Thorne, Harry C., pension increased .
Thorne, Jesse A. B. , pension increased.
Thornton, Adaline M. (widow'), pension increased
Thornton, Jackson D. , pension increased .
Thornton, Thomas, pension increased .
Thorpe, Francis N. , appropriation for manuscript of new edition of Charters and Constitutions ; index-
ing, etc. Thrasher, James H.,
pension increased Three Mile Harbor, N. Y.,
preliminary examination to be made of channel between Gardiners Bay and .
Three Rivers, Quebec,
classification of salary of consul...... Thunder Bay River, Mich.,
appropriation for improvement of Alpena Harbor...
Thurber, Gordon A. , pension...
Thurmond, Mary J. (widow), pension increased .
Thurston, Epaminondas P.,  nsion increased .
Tibbetts Point, N. Y., light-keepers' dwelling authorized....... deficiency appropriation for....
Tibbils, Edgar, pension increased .
Tibbitts, Arthur, pension increased
Tibbitts, George O., pension increased
Tichenor, Travis W., pension increased .

Page. 2266 1662 1508 2806 2786 2268 2013 1604 2699 1790 2010 2471 2632 1880 1652 2087 2535 1565 1991 1949 2039 2180
759 2259
1115 99
1097 2185 2384 2734 323 659 1645 2328 2502 1528

INDEX .

3619

Tickfaw River, La., appropriation for improvement of.........
Tidswell, Thomas J.,· pension increased
Tientsin, China, classification and salary of consul-general :
session of United States court in .... Tiesler, Bruno,
pension increased .

Page. 1089
1950
99 814
1438

Tiffany, Dexter, jr.,

appropriation for reimbursing.

1291

Tiidezewin, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled......

361

Tilburn, Eugenie (widow),

pension..

1863

Tilden, Tyler, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

346

Tillamook Bay and Bar, Cal.,

appropriation for improvement of...

1107

Tillamook Bay, Oreg.,

preliminary examination to be made of.... 1116

Tillamook Forest Reserve, Oreg.,

proclamation establishing

3310

Tillson, Henry H. ,

pension increased .

1814

Tilton, Henry A. ,

pension increased .

1547

Tilton, James F.,

pension increased

1537

Tilton, Rhetta Florence (widow),

pension.

2094

Timber,

permits for sale of, from national forests ... 1269

excepted from prohibition to railroads carrying products in which interested . 585

sale of, for benefit of Jicarilla Indians , New

Mexico

91, 1413

Timber Depredations,

appropriation for preventing, on public

lands ..

724, 1332

Timber Land Reserves (see Forest Reserves) . Timber Lands,

sales of, on Blackfeet Indian Reservation ,

Mont...

1038

Timber, Public Lands,

cutting, etc., trees, for pitch turpentine,

etc., prohibited ; penalty ..

208

Timmons, Milton J.,

pension increased .

2463

Timmons, Robert,

pension increased .

1900

Timms, Charles W.;

pension increased

2167

Tims, John,

pension increased .

2517

Tincup, Colo.,

grant of lands for cemetery to .......

796

Tinkham, George,

pension increased

2528

Tinsley, William M.,

pension increased

2704

Tipton, John,

pension increased .

2763

Tippecanoe Battle Ground, Ind.,

appropriation for monument to Gen. Wil-

liam Henry Harrison and American

army at ..

1410

Tisdale, Ansel K.,

pension increased .

1677

Tishomingo County, Miss., dams, etc., authorized across Bear River . 130, 929

Title Entries of Copyright Office,

appropriation for publication of cata-

logue....

761 , 1368

Tobacco,

Page.

appropriation for investigation of soils, etc. ,

cultivation of......

687, 1273

Tobacco Worms, etc.,

appropriation for investigation and cradi-

cation of..

1273

Tobey, Adelle (widow),

pension increased .

1443

Tobey, James O. ,

pension increased.

1680

Tobey, William O.,

pension increased .

2179

Todd, Edwin M.,

pension increased .

2073

Todd, James R.,

pension increased .

1570

Todd, Thomas,

pension increased .

1604

Todd, William,

pension increased..

2477

Togus, Me.,

appropriation for expenses, Volunteer Sol-

diers' Home ...

747, 1353

for sewerage..

1353

Toiyabe Forest Reserve, Nev. ,

proclamation establishing

3278

Tokyo, Japan,

appropriation for ground rent of embassy. 289, 919 Toledo, Ohio,

appropriation for public building ..

1304

deficiency appropriation for public build-

ing.

639

construction of public building authorized

at..

777

appropriation for.

791

enlargement of public building at , author-

ized ..

775

appropriation for .

790

Tolford, Joshua W.,

pension increased .

1542

Tolles, Nettie E. (widow) ,

pension increased.......

1850

Tomah, Wis.,

appropriation for Indian school ............... . 379, 1051

Tomaselli, Lorenzo G.,

pension increased .

2199

Tombigbee River, Ala.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts ..

1087

Locks and Dams Nos. 1 and 3 .. 737, 1088

Lock and Dam No. 2...

737

for improvement of, from mouth to De-

mopolis..

1088

fron Demopolis to Columbus, Miss . 1088 Locks and Dams Nos. 1 and 2 .... 737, 1345

Lock and Dam No. 1 , Demopolis .... 1345

bridge authorized across , at Stones Ferry. 849

Tomlinson, George W. ,

pension increased .

1948

Tompkins, Charles E.,

pension increased .

2184

Tompkins, Warren B. ,

pension increased .

1797

Toms River, N. J., preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1115

Tomson, James D. , pension increased .

2774

Tonawanda, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of harbor .. 1078

Tongue River Indian Reservation, Mont.,

appropriation for irrigation system ...

1035

Tongue River, Mont.,

appropriation for bridge across , at Fort

Keogh .....

88

3620

INDEX .

Tonkawa Indians , Okla..

shares of minors, etc. , in trust funds may Page. Tower, Charles F.,

be paid to guardians.......... Tonnage, etc., Dues,
proclamation suspending, on imports from Panama .

356 pension increased . Towle, John W.,
pension increased . Town, James C.,

Page. 2068
2516

Tonnage Tax,

3038 pension increased ,

levied on foreign vessels from the Philip-

Town Sites,

1963

pines... Tonto Forest Reserv, Ariz...
proclamation establishing Tool, Nelson B.,

154 3166

allottees.may plat , etc. , on lands adjoining railroad stations, Indian Territory ..
authorized in Colville Indian Reservation , 373 Wash.

pension increased .. Toothaker, Daniel H.,

1451 disposal under reclamation act, of estab- 82 lished ....

pension increased .

Topham, Joseph L.,

2364

pension increased ..

Topographer, Post-Office Department,

2365

appropriation for, assistant, draftsmen, etc ...

for expenses, post-route maps. Topographical Surveys,

439, 984 440, 985

preferences to settlers at Heyburn and

withdRruapwearlts,

Idaho .. in excess

of

160

acres

per-

mitted . lands reserved in Uintah Indian Reserva-

tion, Utah, for.... additional ..
on common lands of Kiowas, Comanches.

519 520
520 3139 3143

88888

appropriation for . Topping, James S.,

727, 1336 an sales; idntApaches, Oklahoma ........... oxicating liquors, etc 80

pension increased .
Topping, Volna S.,
pension increased .. Torgerson, Karl A. , and Charles E. Heyn,
appropriation for purchase of land from... Torgeson, Knute,
pension increased . Toronto, Ontario,
classification and salary of consul..

1984 2556 1045
1552

provisions for, Flathead Indian Reserva-
reservattiioonn,sMfoorn,tu.n.d..er reclamation projects appraisal and sale of lots; proceeds . public reservations for towns .. water supply, etc.; charges .
reservation of lands on Blackfeet Indian
Reservation , Mont .. restrictions on Indian allottees may be re-

80
354 116 116 116 117
1039

appropriation for clerk hire..
Torpedo- Boat Destroyers , Navy, construction of three authorized ; cost .

99 294, 924

of two authorized ; cost ..

582

cost of former boats increased .

1203

Torpedo Boats,

1203

purchase of subsurface or submarine , au-

thorized ; amount ..

Torpedo Boats , Navy,

583

Town Sitmeso,vReedcltaomsaetlilopnorAtcito,n for...
lands in Hailey, Idaho , district reserved for entry as .
Towne, Charles B.,
pension increased . Towne, Lewis A. ,
pension increased.. Townsend, Abigail (widow) ,

373
3215 2119 2818

appropriation for converting.

pension..

Torpedo Defense, Army,

1180 Townsend, Annie A. (widow) .

1791

appropriation for preserving for....
in insular possessions .
Torpedo Destroyers, Navy,

structures
462, 1059 1061

pension increased . Townsend, Giles,
pension increased . Townsend, Levi H. ,

2157 2561

appropriation for converting. Torpedo Factory, Navy,

pension increased . 1180 Trabing, Augustus,

2017

appropriation for constructing and equip-

may bring Indian depredation claim in

ping, at Torpedo station .. Torpedo Planter, Army,

118 C 0 ourt of Claims; disability removed . Trabue, Emily Hibernia (widow), 2311

appropriation for procuring, for Pacific

pension increased .

coast .....

Trabue, William K.,

2555

Torpedo Station , Newport, R. I. ,

1061

appropriation for expenses of naval.... 558, 1180

for public works ..

for equipment, etc. , of torpedo factory5.6.8, 1190

deficiency appropriation for...

1180

Torpedoes, Navy,

647, 1385

appropriation for fifty 18- inch..

for reserve ..

1180

Torrey, Rodney W.,

1180

pension increased.

Tracy, Andrew W. ,

2083

pension increased..

Tracy, Charles H.,

1901

pension increased..

Trade Conditions Abroad,

2436

appropriation for special agents to investi-

gate ..
cotton products .. Trade- Marks,

442, 987 442

pension increased . Totuskey River, Va. ,

convention for protection of, with Rou-

1829

mania

preliminary examination of, to be made .. Tourgée, Emma K. (widow),
pension increased....... Tout, Asa,
pension increased .. Tow, Samuel M.,
pension increased .

1117
2216 1683 1935

statement requirements modified . when needed to express colors ..
classes to be established
single application for all of a class accorded owners of factories in United
States...
marks not accepted for registration. registration refused, emblems of fraternal
societies..

2901 168 169 169 169
169 1251
1251

INDEX.

3621

Trade- Marks-Continued. opposition to issue may be filed by attorney; verification by opposer required .....
Trade- Marks Declaration,
with Luxemburg Traffic Contracts, Interstate Carrier,
copies of all, to be filed with Interstate Commerce Commission ...
Traffic, Interstate (see Interstate Commerce
Regulations ) . Trafford, H. W. ,
payment to.. Trails, etc., Alaska,
provisions for laying out..

Page. 1252 2868
587
2662 192

Train Dispatchers , Railway,

hours of continuous service by, limited ... 1416

Trainer, Nevermore, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed .

345

Training Vessels, Naval,

limit of cost increased ..

583

Transcripts from Records, Public Lands,

appropriation for furnishing..

724, 1333

Transit Pay,

appropriation for, diplomatic and consular

service ..

288, 918

Transportation,

appropriation for, diplomatic and consular

officers ....

288, 922

deficiency appropriation for, diplomatic

and consular officers ..

634

term to include cars and all instrumentali-

ties of shipment .....

584

services of receipt, delivery , icing, stor-

age, etc.

584

to be furnished on reasonable requests..

584

through routes, with just and reasonable

rates to be established by carriers .... 584

charges to be just and reasonable...

584

ifunjust and unreasonable, prohibited . 584

free interstate, of passengers forbidden ;

exceptions...

584

penalty for issuing; accepting .

585

Transportation, Army,
appropriation for.. division of estimates..

253, 1169 1170

for payment to land-grant roads, not bond

aided ...

.. 253, 1170

for boats for seacoast artillery

1171

deficiency appropriation for...

46,

646, 666, 668, 1382, 1401, 1404

Transportation, Interstate and Foreign,

of meats or meat products not inspected

and passed, forbidden .

676

Transportation, Mail, appropriation for.....

472, 1211

Transportation, Marine Corps, appropriation for..

581, 1202

Transportation, Navy, appropriation for..
deficiency appropriation for..

555, 1177 46, 1386

Transportation of Animals,

provisions for rest, feeding, etc. , in inter-

state commerce

607

Transports, Army,

approprsitarition cted . for expenses of; sale re- ... 253, 1170

restriction on use of

254, 1170

Travel Allowance, Army,

appropriation for enlisted men on dis-

charge .

245, 1163

Travers, Harvey M.,

pension increased .

2132

Travis, James F.,

pension increased ........

2598

VOL XXXIV, PT 365

Treasurer ofthe United States,

Page.

appropriation for, assistant, cashier, clerks,

etc ..

406, 953

for superintendent redemption of national

currency, clerks, etc..

407, 953

for paperfor checks for, etc

413, 960

for clerks, sinking fund office, D. C.. 484, 1121

deficiency appropriation for counters, etc.

28

for counters, etc. , redemption of national

currency

28

for reimbursing Bureau of Engraving and

Printing...

635

report for 1905, ordered printed .

2833

Treasury Department,

appropriation for Secretary, Assistants,

clerks, etc.

402, 949

estimates of receipts and expenditures,

etc., to be made in annual report, and statement for preceding year... 949

for chief clerk, assistant superintendent,

clerks, etc...

402, 949

for engineers, watchmen, laborers, etc. 403, 949

for divisions in Secretary's office, clerks,

etc.

403, 950

assignments from miscellaneous divi-

sion ...

404

for Supervising Architect, messenger

404

for Supervising Architect, assistant, etc.. 951

employees paid from public buildings . 405

draftsmen, engineers , etc.

405, 951

for Comptroller of the Treasury, assistant,

clerks, etc...

405, 952

for Auditor for Treasury Department ,

deputy, clerks, etc ..

405, 952

for Auditor for War Department, deputy,

clerks, etc...

405, 952

for Auditor for Navy Department,

deputy, clerks, etc ..

406, 952

for Auditor for Interior Department,

deputy, clerks, etc ..

406, 952

for Auditor for State, etc. , Departments,

deputy, clerks, etc ..

406, 952

for Auditor for Post-Office Department,

deputy, clerks , etc ..

406, 953

for Treasurer, assistant, clerks, etc ..... 406, 953

for Register, assistant, clerks, etc. 407, 954

for Comptroller of the Currency, deputy,

clerks, etc ..

407, 954

for Commissioner of Internal Revenue,

deputies, etc..

408, 954

for Superintendent Life- Saving Service,

assistant, clerks, etc.

408, 955

for Director Bureau of Engraving and

Printing, clerks, etc.

408, 955

employees paid from engraving and

printing....

408

for chief of secret service division, clerks ,

etc....

409, 955

for Director of the Mint, clerks, etc .... 409, 955

for Surgeon-General , Public Health, etc. ,

Service, clerks, etc ..

409, 956

for contingent expenses..

409, 956

for rent..

410, 956

for contingent expenses, Auditor for

Post-Office Department...

410, 957

for internal-revenue collectors, deputies,

agents, etc..

411, 957

for salaries, assistant treasurers ' offices . 411 , 958

special agents, etc.

413, 960

paper for checks

413, 960

for salaries, mints, and assay offices ... 413, 960

for government in the Territories ... 416, 963

for civil expenses under .

697, 1295

for public buildings .

697, 1295

for repairs to Department buildings .. 699, 1305

3622

INDEX.

Treasury Department-Continued. appropriation for repairs to cast front; of balance.. for steel files for official bonds . for automatic fire alarm.. for marine hospitals .. for quarantine stations . for Life-Saving Service . for Revenue-Cutter Service ..

Page.
use 1305 1305
699, 1305 701, 1306 701 , 1307 701, 1307 702, 1308

for Bureau of Engraving and Printing.703, 1309

hand press requirement repealed .

1310

for Smithsonian Institution , ..

704, 1310

for Interstate Commerce Commission . 705, 1310

for paper and stamps, internal revenue.. 705,

1312

for punishing violations of internal-rev-

enue laws..

705, 1312

for contingent expenses, Independent

Treasury

706, 1312

for transporting, recoining, etc. , coins .. 706,

1312

for expenses, securities, and national

currency for expenses, public buildings.

706, 1313 707, 1313

for suppressing counterfeiting, etc ... 708, 1314

for compensation in lieu of moieties .. 708, 1315

for collecting revenue from customs, ad-

ditional ..

1315

for scales for customs service.

708

for local appraisers' meetings . for custody of lands, etc ..

708, 1315 708, 1315

for Public Health and Marine-Hospi-

tal Service ...

708, 1316

for quarantine service
for prevention of epidemics . for leprosy hospital, Hawaii ..

709, 1316 709, 1316
709

for printing and binding.. for additional rent, etc ..

760, 1366 796

for moving furniture...

796

for Digest of Customs Laws and Deci-

sions ..

840

deficiency appropriation for Cora B. Thom-

as; to be continued on the rolls for

five years...

27

for Treasurer's office ..

28, 635

correction in legislative act, Internal-

Revenue office..

636

additional draftsmen , etc. , Architect's

office ....

636

for collecting customs revenue

28,

45, 636, 665, 1401

for transporting silver coin... 28, 119, 636, 1373

for recoining gold coin.....

28

for local appraisers' meetings .

28

for public buildings .

28,

30, 45, 638, 665, 1374, 1375, 1401

for arrears of pay, war with Spain ...

28

for Lindley . Kent and Joseph Jenkins. 29

for claims of New York and Pennsylva-

nia, war of 1812 ..

29

for internal revenue .

29 ,

46, 637, 665, 668, 1375, 1401 , 1404

for quarantine station , Honolulu

29

for Revenue-Cutter Service... 30, 45, 638, 1373

for credit in accounts of George A. Bart-

lett, for public buildings..

*30

for credits in accounts of Thomas J.

Hobbs, for public buildings.

30

for repairs to building .

31

for Independent Treasury.

31, 1373

for mints and assay offices .

31 ,

639, 665, 842, 1376

for Court of Claims judgments under..

44 ,

664, 1399

for repaying importers....

45

Treasury Department -- Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for quarantine

service

45

for Life-Saving Service . 45, 665, 1401 , 1404

for per diem customs inspectors, New

York ....

636, 1373

Philippine tariffs prior to March 8,

1902, legalized ....

.636

for transporting minor coin..

636, 1374

for Engraving and Printing Bureau..

637

claim of Minnesota reopened ..

637

for Minnesota...

1374

for Andrew J. West .

637

for Francis A. Macon .

637

for Claude Hough ..

637

for transfer of accounts .

638

Oklahoma Territorial appropriations

not to be used , etc.

639

for judgments of United States courts,

under .

663, 1399

for Auditor for Navy Department .

665, 885

for government in the Territories .

885

for Secretary..

1372

for changing bookkeeping methods .

1372

for draftsmen, etc., office Supervising

Architect ...

1372

for office of Auditor for Post-Office De-

partment

1372

for Potomac Electric Power Company . 1373

for contingent expenses..

1373

for Director of the Mint ..

1373

for examinations of banks ..

1373

for refunding stamps on ships ' manifests .. 1373

for Edward King...

1374

for Etienne De P. Bujac

1374

for Jacob Livingston and Company .

1374

for Delia B. Stuart ..

1374

for James M. McKee ..

1374

for Postal Telegraph-Cable Company .

1374

for Public Health and Marine- Hospital

Service ....

1375

for suppressing counterfeiting, etc ..

1401

for 20 per cent to civil employees .

1404

appraiser, New York, salary increased.

1373

provisions to promote efficiency of Reve-

nue-Cutter Service....

452

Treasury Notes (see United States Notes).

Treaties (see also Conventions) ,

international, for arbitration of pecuniary

claims

2845

with Denmark, extradition extended to

colonies, etc ..

2898

with Great Britain , surrendering extrater-

ritorial rights in Zanzibar..

2870

with Haiti, extradition ..

2858

with Norway, modifying provisions relat-

ing to accessories .

2865

with Panama, extradition ..

2851

Trebizond, Turkey,

classification and salary of consul..

100

Tredick, Annie L. (widow),

pension..

1491

Trefry, John,

pension increased .

2435

Tremble, David,

pension increased .

1828

Trent River, N. C.,

appropriation for improvement of...

1083

securing channel over Foys Flats

1424

Trenton, N. J.,

bridge authorized across Delaware River

near...

64

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized

774

appropriation for.

790, 1304

INDEX .

3623

Trice, George W., pension increased ..

Page. 1827

Trieste, Austria,

classification and salary of consul ..............

100

Trinidad, Colo.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ....

778

appropriation for...

792, 1304

Trinidad, West Indies,

classification and salary of consul ........ 100

Trinity Forest Reserve, Cal. ,

proclamation establishing

2998

Trinity River, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of..

737 ,

739, 1091, 1345

maintenance, locks and dams ; con-

tracts ...

1092

Tripler, Surgeon Charles S. ,

payment to widow of..

2308

Triplett, William ,

pension increased .

1925

Tripp, Levi A.,

pension increased..

1630

"Triton," Foreign- built Dredge,

to be documented as vessel of the United

States...

204

Trotters Shoals,

dam, etc. , authorized across Savannah

River, at..

1241

Trowbridge, Carloss,

pension increased .

2736

Trowbridge, George P.,

pension increased..

1551

Troy, Ala. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for.

794

Truant Officers, D. C.,

duties of, etc ..

220

Truax, Joseph H.,

pension increased..

2188

Trudell, August , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
True, George B. , pension increased .
Trueblood, Solomon R. , pension increased ..
Truett, William, pension increased .

357 2175 1706 2758

Truman, Austin B.,

pension increased .

2543

Trumbo, David S.,

pension increased .

1835

Trumbull, Mary J. (widow),

pension increased..

2324

Trust Companies, D. C.,

all, to make and publish reports as required

of national banks ....

458

power of Comptroller to take possession ;

foreign institutions......

458

printing publications ; examinations ..

459

Trusts (see also Antitrust Laws) ,

deficiency appropriation for examinations,

etc. , into..

119

investigation ordered of, to monopolize

trade, etc. , in coal or oil..

823

Truxton Canyon, Ariz., appropriation for Indian school ........
Tsingtau, China,
classification and salary of consul .. Tubbs, Robert B.,
granted honorable discharge.. Tuberculosis among Indians,

332 , 1021 99
2466

feasibility of sanitarium for treating, to be

reported upon...

328

Tuberculosis, etc. , admission ofaliens afflicted with , excluded . importation of aliens with, unlawful ; penalty ... decision of board of special inquiry, final .

Page. 899
901 901

Tuberculosis Hospital, D. C.,

appropriation for erection and equipment

for indigent patients...

511

for maintenance, etc ..

1151

Tuck, Charles H.,

pension increased .

1543

Tuckahoe River, Md.,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1113

Tucker, Calaway G.,

pension increased .

1618

Tucker, George A.,

pension increased .

2423

Tucker, James P.,

pension increased .

1995

Tucker, Seth M.,

pension increased .

1452

Tuckerton Creek, N. J.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1080

Tuders, William ,

pension increased .

2490

Tudor, Benjamin F. ,

pension..

2101

Tug Fork, Big Sandy River,

appropriation for improvement of; locks

and dams .....

737

Dam No. 1 ; contracts ..

1082

bridge authorized across, Devon, W. Va.

883

Nolan, W. Va..

626

Sprigg, W. Va..

1234

Warfield, Ky..

852

West Virginia and Kentucky and West

Virginia and Virginia.

891

Williamson, W. Va ...

69, 1004

Wolf Creek, Ky..

1002

Tugaloo River, S. C. and Ga.,

operation of Knox's bridge authorized

across ..

122

Tulalip Indian Reservation, Wash.,

appropriation for sawmill .

1050

Tule River Agency, Cal.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of..

333,.1022

Tulsa, Ind. T.,

terms of court, etc. , recording district No.

28 .

343

Tulsa, Okla.,

terms of court ...

275

Tumacacori Forest Reserve, Ariz.,

proclamation establishing

3263

Tunkasapa, or Joseph T. Cook, Indian Allot-

tee, alienation restrictions removed .......

... 374

Tumey, John W. ,

pension increased.

2767

Turckheim, Reuben I., alias Joseph Adler,

pension increased ..

1707

Turin, Italy,

classification and salary of consul

100

Turkey,

appropriation for ambassador to..

286, 916

for secretary of embassy . for second secretary .

287, 917 : 287, 917

for interpreter..........

288, 918

for hire of steam launch .

289, 919

for purchase of legation buildings , etc... 293

for interpreters, etc. , at consulates .... 294 , 924

for marshals, consular courts ..

294, 925

for expenses of prisoners.. for rent of prison...

295, 925 295, 925

3624

INDEX.

Turks Island, West Indies,
classification and salary of consul ................ Turley, Jackson D. ,
pension increased .

Page. 100
2088

Turley, Robert,

pension increased .

2304

Turnbull, Richard,

pension increased ..

2758

Turner, C. W. ,

appropriation for payment from Creek funds, unpaid tribal warrant ....... 344

Turner, David,

pension increased..

2450

Turner, Emma J. (widow),

pension increased ..

2317

Turner, George R.,

pension increased ..

2263

Turner, J. Dillon,

pension increased ..

2226

Turner. Jacob,

pension increased ...

2284

Turner, Jefferson G.,

pension increased .

2614

Turner, Mary E. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2248

Turner, Nathaniel Lewis,

pension increased .

2709

Turner, Samuel,

pension increased ..

2261

Turner Shoals, Savannah River,

dam authorized at........

1239

Turner, William ,

pension increased .

2803

Turner, William B.,

deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1396

Turner, William H.,

pension increased.

2611

Turner, William J.,

pension increased ..

2296

Turney, Patrick,

pension increased ..

2325

Turpentine, etc.,

cutting, etc. , trees on public lands for, pro-

hibited; penalty.

208

Turtle Cove Channel, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of, from

Aransas Pass to Corpus Christi ; con-

tracts ..

1091

Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa Indians,

appropriation for support, etc. , of.... 360, 1042

allotments on Graham Island to ..

361

Tuscaloosa, Ala.,

construction of public building authorized-

at ..

776

appropriation for.. Tuttle, Isaac,
pension increased .

791, 1304 1964

Tutuila Samoan Islands,

appropriation for barracks, naval station... 1188

Tuxpam, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul ......

100

Twelfth Light-louse District,

deficiency appropriation for repairing, etc. ,

buildings destroyed by earthquake .. 842

tender for engineer, authorized ..

324

appropriation for ..

711, 1318

limit of cost increased ..

858

Twenty Per Cent to Civil Employees,

deficiency appropriation for.

1404

Twenty-third Street NW. , D. C. ,

proceedings to condemn lands for extending

to Kalorama road..

847

appropriation for...

847

Twin City Power Company,

Page.

may build two dams across Savannah River

above Augusta, Ga.

1000

Twine, etc., Postal Service, appropriation for .

476, 1215

Twitchell, Jonathan C. S. ,

pension increased..

1521

Two Rivers, Wis.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor;

restriction..

1101

Tyaskin Creek, Md., appropriation for improvement of..
Tying Devices, Postal Service, appropriation for....

..... 1081 476, 1215

Tyler, Casper W.,

pension increased..

2664

Tyler, Cassia C. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2383

Tyler, George A. ,

pension increased .

2446

Tyler, Leonard,

pension increased ..

2403

Tyler, Sarah A. (widow),

pension increased...

1643

Tyler, Tex.,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized .

775

appropriation for.

790, 1304

Tyler, William L.,

pension...

2565

Typhoid Fever, D. C.,

provisions to prevent spread of.......

889

Typhus Fever,

appropriation for prevention of epidemic . 709, 1316

Tyronza Central Railroad Company,

may bridge Little River, Poinsett County,

Ark ..

112

Tyrrell, Sallie ( widow),

pension increased .

1932

Tyson, Louis A. ,

pension increased .

1948

Tyson, William W.,

pension increased .

2534

U.

Uhler, William H. ,

pension increased .

1690

Uinta Forest Reserve, Utah and Wyo .,

proclamation enlarging..

3186, 3207, 3240

Uintah and Ouray Agency, Utah, 1

appropriation for Indian agent at.

375, 1049 '

Uintah Forest Reserve, Utah,

proclamation adding lands to , from Uintah

Indian Reservation

3116

Uintah Indian Reservation, Utah,

appropriation for irrigation system ; condi-

tions ....

375, 1049

deficiency appropriation for surveys .

654

grant of lands in former, to the Episcopal

Church in Utah...

611

lots in grazing reserve, entered by David

Eskelson restored to public domain . 3228

proclamation opening to entry unallotted

lands in

3119

reserving town sites ...

3139

modifying provisions for drawings .

3140

lands reserved to Indians for agriculture . 3141

additional, for town sites ..

3143

reservoir site

3142

area reduced

3143

sale of timber by Indians of former.

376

INDEX.

3625

Uintah Indian Reservation, Utah- Cont'd . Page. United States Courts-Continued .

Page.

time extended homesteaders to establish
residence on, ceded lands ..... Uintah Indians,

appropriation for circuit courts of appeals ,

9

clerks .....

446, 992

for messenger, etc., eighth circuit .

447, 992

appropriation for irrigating lands of.... 375 , 1049

Umatilla, etc. , Indians, Oreg., appropriation for support, etc., of...... 367, 1045

shares of minors, etc. , in trust funds may be

paid to guardians ..

356

Umatilla Indian Reservation, Oreg.,

for district judges . for judges, Indian Territory. for district court, Hawaii .. for retired judges.......... for court of appeals, D. C. for supreme court, D. C.......

447, 992 447, 992 447, 992 447, 992 447, 992 447, 992

grazing lands of, may be patented to pur-

chasers...

611

for clerk, Illinois northern district .... 447, 992 for commissioner, Yellowstone Park .. 447, 992

permission for cattle and sheep to cross

over

369

for law books, circuit courts of appeals . 447, 993

for expenses, in China...

922, 1357

Umpqua Forest Reserve, Oreg., proclamation establishing .

for salaries, etc. , marshals; advances . 753, 1360

3301

salaries Idaho and California southern

Umpqua River Life-Saving Station, Oreg.,

appropriation for telephone line to mouth

of Siuslaw River...

1308

Umstead, John C.,

pension increased .

1575

Uncompahgre Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

proclamation establishing

3109

enlarging

3282

Uncompahgre Indian Reservation, Utah,

lands containing gilsonite, asphaltum , elaterite, etc., in, offered for sale .. 3214
recording mining claims inWasatchCounty . 376

Uncompahgre Indians, Utah, appropriation for irrigating lands of.... 375, 1049

Underwood, Arthur A. ,

payment to.

2316

Underwood, Eldridge,

pension increased .

2527

Underwood, John,

pension increased .

1804

Underwood, Thomas F.,

pension increased

1721

district......

753

for salaries, etc. , district attorneys and

assistants .

753, 1360

salaries, Idaho and California southern

district...

754

for fees, district attorney for D. C..... 754, 1360

for payments to regular assistants.... 754, 1361

special assistants ..

754, 1361

for assistant attorneys in special cases . 754, 1361

employment of foreign counsel .... 754, 1361

naturalization proceedings .

1361

for fees, clerks

754, 1361

returns of all moneys to be made.... 754

commissioners...

755, 1361

jurors ..

755, 1361

witnesses .

755, 1361

for rent of court rooms .

755, 1361

for bailiffs, etc...

755, 1361

for expenses, judges, etc .. for jury commissioners ..

755, 1361 · 755, 1361

for miscellaneous expenses: Alaska ... 755, 1361

Union Agency, Indian Territory, appropriation for Indian agent at . for expenses, town sites, etc.
for leasing lands of Creeks, etc.
for expenses, sale of inherited , lands .

338, 1025 338, 1025 338, 1025
etc. , 1025

for special master, case against George

Edward Adams .

755

for expenses, Indian Territory.

756

for supplies..

756, 1361

for books, Hawaii courts..

756, 1361

for support of prisoners .

756, 1362

deficiency appropriation for clerical force,

etc. , town-site expenses .

39

for penitentiary, Leavenworth, Kans . 756, 1362

Atlanta, Ga..

... 757, 1363

Union Brewing Company, payment to..
Union Railroad Station, D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for district attor-

2824

neys and assistants ... 40 , 41, 657, 667, 1403

for district judges ..

41

appropriation for purchase of land , chang-

ing grades, etc., for...

490, 1126

improvement of plaza ; part by Terminal

Alabama northern district .

1390

Nebraska, additional.

1390

Ohio southern district, additional .

1390

Company..

1127

ascertainment of damages, etc., changes of

grade, on line of Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington Railroad.... 624

Oklahoma .

1390

for additional justice, Arizona ..

41

for additional judges, Indian Territory.. 41

for court of appeals, D. C ...

41

damages for change of grade, benefits from

for assistant attorneys in special cases... 41,

abolishing grade crossings, etc. , to

be considered ..

619

for fees, jurors ...

48, 657, 1391 41, 48, 205, 669, 1390

pay of commissioners to be determined

for rent of court rooms.

41, 657, 1391

by Supreme Court.. Union Veteran Legion, D. C.,

619

for bailiffs, etc ......

41, 48, 66, 1390, 1403

for miscellaneous expenses .

42, 48, 1390

24

punishment for unauthorized wearing in-

signia of...

62

for marshals .. for fees, clerks .

48, 667, 1390, 1403 48, 657, 667, 1390, 1403, 1405

Union Veteran's Union, D. C.,

for fees, commissioners .. 48, 667, 669, 1403, 1405

punishment for unauthorized wearing in-

signia of .

62

for support of prisoners . for supplies.

48, 667, 669, 1403 48, 1391

United Kingdom (see Great Britain). United States Courts,

appropriation for Chief and associate jus-

tices, Supreme Court .

446, 991

for marshal, Supreme Court.

446, 991

for clerks to justices ..

446, 992

for fees, witnesses . 205, 667, 1390 , 1403, 1405

for additional judge, New York southern

district ...

657

for penitentiary, Leavenworth Kans........ 657

for paying judgments ..

663, 1399

for, in China ...

669

for circuit judges...

446, 992 for China, established ..

814

3626

INDEX .

United States Courts- Continued.

Page.

Alabama, northern district, assignment of

judge to southern division .

114

Arizona, eastern district created ; judges,

etc.

283

western district created ; judges, etc..

283

Arkansas, western district, transfer of civil cases permitted in divisions of ........ 206

in criminal cases, certain defendants may be tried in Fort Smith division . 207

California, southern district, marshal's sal-

ary ..

753

district attorney.

754

District of Columbia supreme court ex-

. penses to be carried in District ap-

propriation...

763

Georgia, southern district; "Albany division

created..

547

Iowa, southern district, Appanoose County transferred from southern to eastern

division..

127

Clinton County transferred to.

304

Ottumwa division established .

913

Idaho, salary of marshal .

753

district attorney.

754

Missouri, Phelps County transferred from

western to eastern district ..

875

Nebraska district, eight divisions created .. 997

additional district judge ..

997

marshal's pay increased..

1000

North Dakota, five divisions established.. 609

Oklahoma, eastern district created ; judges,

etc.

275

western district created ; judges, etc ..

275

transfer of pending matters, etc....

1286

Porto Rico, qualifications, etc. , of jurors

district court...

466

Texas, southern district, new division cre-

ated .

121

western district, new division created

226

Virginia, western district, officers, etc. , Big

Stone Gap.

546

appeals allowed from any interlocutory

order of injunction, etc ..

116

commissioners to have a seal ; use, etc .... 546

competency of witnesses in civil cases to

follow State or Territorial laws .

618

concurrent jurisdiction of circuit and district courts in immigration cases... 907

district judge for Alabama northern dis-

trict..

931

Arizona eastern and western districts ..

283

California northern district , additional ... 1253

Ohio southern district, additional .

928

Nebraska, additional .

997

New York southern district, additional . 202

Oklahoma, eastern and western districts . 275

district judge from another circuit may

act for disabled judge ..

1417

good-conduct commutation extended to

existing sentences .

149

jurisdiction in naturalization of aliens ..

596

jurors in Federal cases, New Mexico Terri-

tory; selection , etc ..

552

selection of, in Oklahoma ..

11

proceedings by Attorney-General, special

counsel , etc., authorized in any dis-

trict..

816

writs of error in criminal cases by United

States to Supreme Court..

1246

not allowed when verdict for defendant . 1246

terms, Abingdon , Va..

547

Albuquerque, Ariz ..

283

Ardmore, Okla ..

275

United States Courts- Continued .
terms, Bellingham , Wash . Big Stone Gap, Va.. Birmingham, Ala . Bismarck, N. Dak.
Cedar Rapids, Iowa.. Chadron, Nebr. Charleston, S. C. Charlottesville, Va..
Chattanooga, Tenn . Chickashaw, Okla . Clarksburg, W. Va.. Columbia, S. C .. Creston, Iowa.. Danville, Va ........... Dayton, Ohio . Del Rio, Tex .. Devils Lake, N. Dak Dubuque, Iowa Elizabeth City, N. C .. Enid, Okla.. Eureka, Cal ..
Evanston, Wyo.. Fargo, N. Dak.. Florence, S. C .. Fort Dodge, Iowa Grand Forks, N. Dak. Grand Island , Nebr.. Greeneville, Tenn ... Greenville, S. C. Guthrie, Okla. Harrisonburg, Va.. Hastings, Nebr. Lawton, Okla .. Lincoln, Nebr.. Lynchburg, Va... McCook, Nebr.. Martinsburg, W. Va.. Miami, Fla.. Minot, N. Dak.. Muscogee, Okla . Nashville, Tenn . Newbern, N. C... Norfork, Nebr . North Platte, Nebr Oklahoma City, Okla. Omaha, Nebr... Ottumwa, Iowa. Parkersburg, W. Va .. Philippi, W. Va .. Phoenix, Ariz Quincy, Ill.. Raleigh, N. C .. Roanoke, Va .. Sioux City, Iowa. South McAlester, Okla. Tulsa, Okla.. Victoria, Tex ... Vinita, Okla . Washington, N. C. Wheeling, W. Va.. Wilmington, N. C. United States Notes,

Page. 913 547 114
609, 610 912 998 1002 547
298, 882 275 891 1002 127 547 1294 226
609, 610 912 1224 275 631 111
609, 610 1002 912
609, 610 998 298 1002 275 547 998 275 998 547 998 891 226
609, 610 275
298, 882 1224 998 998 275 998 913 891 891 283 882 1224 547 912 275 275 121 275 1224 891 1224

issue of smaller denominations authorized

to meet deficiency in silver certifi-

cates ...

1289

higher denominations to be retired .

1290

aggregate outstanding , not to be changed 1290

Universalist General Convention, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

869

University of Arizona,

lands reserved for; disposition...

282

University of Idaho,

obsolete cannon, etc. , donated to ..

865

INDEX.

3627

University ofOklahoma,

Page.

additional land granted to, in Cleveland

County..

932

lands reserved for ; disposition .

273

indemnity grant ..

275

for preparatory school

275

additional grant..

623

University of Utah,

part of Fort Douglas Reservation granted to;

conditions

195

rights reserved .

195

Upham, David,

pension increased .

2223

Upper White River, Ark.,

appropriation for improvement of, Lock and

Dam No. 3 .

1093

right of way granted through Lands of Lock

No. 1 ..

1283

Upton, Gainford N.,

pension increased

2301

Urgent Deficiencies (see Deficiency Appropriations).

Uruguay, Paraguay and,

appropriation for minister to..

287, 917

for secretary of legation ....

917

Useless Papers,

in post-offices to be disposed of.................................. 186

Utah,

appropriation for Indian service in ..... 375, 1049

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in....

375, 1049

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc ..... 436, 981

for reimbursement for surveying ad-

vances

726

deficiency appropriation for incidental ex-

penses, Indian service in...

38, 655

asphaltum, etc. , lands, Uncompahgre

Reservation, to be sold ..

3214

Bear River Forest Reserve, Idaho and, es-

tablished

3206

Beaver Forest Reserve, established

3189

Dixie Forest Reserve; established .

3147

Fillmore Forest Reserve , established ..

3200

Fish Lake Forest Reserve , lands added to . 3189

Glenwood Forest Reserve, established .. 3275

grant of Uintah Reservation lands to the

Episcopal Church in Utah ..

611

La Sal Forest Reserve, Colorado and , es-

tablished

204, 3190

land laws extended to abandoned Fort Crit-

tenden Military Reservation ..

808

Logan Forest Reserve merged into Bear

River .

3206

Manti Forest Reserve, lands added to

3188

Monticello Forest Reserve, established .. 3272

part of Fort Douglas Military Reservation,

granted to university

195

Payson Forest Reserve, area extended .. 3127

Raft River Forest Reserve, Idaho and, es-

tablished..

3247

Sevier Forest Reserve , established .

3020

enlarged

3187

time extended for settlers on Uinta lands, to establish residence...
town sites reserved in Uintah Indian Reservation ...
provisions for drawings modified .. lands reserved to Indians for agriculture
and reservoir site . additional reservoir site reduced .. Uintah Forest Reserve, enlarged

9
3139 3140
3141 3143 3143 3116

Uintah Forest Reserve, Wyo. and, en-

larged ....

3186, 3240

boundaries changed .

3207

Utah- Continued.

Page.

Uintah Indian Reservation, opened to

entry

3119

grazing reserve , lots entered by David

Eskelson restored to public domain . 3238

Vernon Forest Reserve, established

3197

Wasatch Forest Reserve , established

3225

Utah and Eastern Copper Company,

sale of lands of Shebit Indians, Utah, to;

conditions ...

375

Ute Indians, Confederated Bands,

appropriation for fulfilling treaties with . 376, 1049 deficiency appropriation for employees .... 47 Ute Indians, Utah,

appropriation for irrigating allotted lands

of Uncompahgre, Uintah, and White

River...

375, 1049

Utilla, Honduras,

classification and salary of consul ......... 100

Utter, Gould E.,

pension increased .

1522

Utter, Henry,

pension increased .

2528

V.

V Street, D. C.,

deficiency appropriation for widening..... 640

Vaccination ofIndians, appropriation for........

330, 1018

Valdez, Alaska,

appropriation for improvement of jail ..... 751

Valdez, Marshall Pass and Northern Railroad

Company,

time extended for completing road in

Alaska by

915

Valdosta, Ga.,

construction of public building authorized

at ..

776

appropriation for ..

791 , 1304

Valencia, Spain, classification and salary of consul ......................... 100

Valentine, Benjamin W.,

pension increased .

1832

Valentine, Ethan A.,

pension increased .

2321

Valiquette, M. J.,

payment to.

2662

Vallandigham , George B.,

pension increased .

1924

Valley Forge Park Commission, Pa. ,

loan of brass cannon, etc., to...

1415

Valparaiso, Chile, classification and salary of consul .....
Valparaiso Earthquake, Chile, proclamation asking aid to sufferers from ..

99 3227

Van Alst, William,

pension increased .

2623

Van Amringe, Mary Ellen (daughter),

pension...

2744

Van Blarcom, Mary (widow),

pension...

1532

Van Brunt, Ellen M. (widow),

pension increased .

1993

Van Buren, Ark. , bridge authorized across Arkansas River at . 21

Van Buskirk, Reuben,

pension increased .

2164

Van Camp, James H.,

pension increased

2078

Van De Bogert, George W.,

pension increased

2156

Van Derslice, Hester A. (widow),

pension increased .

2079

Van Dewalker, James G.,

pension increased .

2571

3628

INDEX.

Van Dusen, Charles H., pension increased .
Van Keuren, William, pension increased .
Van Ostern, William V., pension increased

Page. 2150
19 1895
1770

Van Ostrand, Charles,

pension increased .

2381

Van Patten, Minard,

pension increased .

1835

Van Riper, Abram,

pension increased .

1986

Van Riper, Jeremiah,

pension increased

2060

Van Scoter, Hudson J.,

pension increased

2067

Van Steenburg, Linas,

pension increased

2462

Van Slyke, Anthony,

pension increased .

2072

Van Tassell, William H., pension increased .

2354

Van Tine, Charles,

pension increased .

2246

Van Volkenburgh, Isaac,

pension increased

1558

Van Vorst, Adam S.,

pension increased

2339

Vanbeber, Emily J. (widow), pension increased

2774

Vance, George C.,

pension increased

2595

Vance, John P.,

pension increased

1702

Vance, Joseph W.,

pension increased ..

1868

Vancouver, British Columbia,
classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire .

99 294, 924

Vancouver, Wash. , bridge authorized across Columbia River at 2

Vancuren, Sabine,

pension increased

1810

Vandegrift, John,

pension increased

2773

Vandel, Abram W. ,

pension increased

2693

Vandel, Arthur M., Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

374

Vandel, Charles E. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

374

Vandel, James E. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

374

Vanderburgh, Effingham ,

pension increased .

2206

Vanderwalker, George E.,

pension increased

2428

Vandine, Harriet E. (widow),

pension increased .

2056

Vandiver, Margaret R. (widow),

pension increased

2250

Vanmatre, Cyrus,

pension increased

2078

Vann, Clement N.,

claim for services to Osages, referred to

Court of Claims .

365

Vantilburgh, William,

pension increased ..

2258

Vantine, Abraham K.,

pension increased

1471

Vassar, John G.,

pension increased

2044

Vaughan, Smith,

pension increased .

1926

Vaught, Stephen, pension increased .

Page. 2037

Vaults, Safes, and Locks, Public Buildings,

appropriation for...

700, 1306

for electrical protection for.

700, 1306

deficiency appropriation for..

28, 45

Veach, John P.,

pension increased .

2162

Veatch, Harmon,

pension increased .

2558

Vegetables, D. C., may be sold by head or bunch .

316, 854

Vehicles, D. C., Motor or Horse,

speed regulations ; penalties .

621

Veile, George C.,

pension increased .

2674

Venezuela,

appropriation for minister to .

286, 916

for secretary of legation ...

287, 917

Venice, Italy,

classification and salary of consul ......... 100 Veracruz, Mexico,

classification and salary of consul..

99

appropriation for clerk hire ..

294, 924

Vermilion, Ohio,

appropriation for improvement of...

1094

Vernon, Cynthia, formerly Cordial (widow) , pension increased .
Vernon Forest Reserve, Utah,
proclamation establishing Versailles, Ky.,

1885 3197

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized

779

appropriation for..

792, 1304

Vertner, Daniel M.,

pension increased .

2088

Vessels,

confinement of animals in interstate transit

by, limited ..

607

time for feeding, watering, and rest re-

quired....

507

international requirements of lights on fish-

ing...

850

punishment of owners, etc., of, violating

quarantine regulations ....

300

Vessels in Domestic Commerce (see also Vessels

and Steamboat Inspection Service) .

enrollment and license of, consolidated in

one document....

136

renewal of license by indorsement of collector of district in which lying.... 136

five great coasting districts established; di-

visions ..

190

operating foreign-built dredges in United States forbidden unless documented 204

Vessels, Steam ,

masters, etc., to display licenses within

forty-eight hours ...

897

emergency transfers excepted .

897

regulation of whistling by .

881

Veterinarians, Army,

appropriation for pay; longevity ...... 245, 1163

Veterinarians, D. C.,

use of drugs, etc. , by .

175

Veterinary Regulations, D. C. ,

board of examiners created ; qualifications, appointment, etc.
officers, duties, etc ..

870 870 .

licenses to practice required ; examinations,

etc ...

871

acceptance of foreign licenses

871

" of graduates of colleges without exami-

nation .....

872

to present practitioners .

872

INDEX.

3629

Veterinary Regulations, D. C. - Cont'd.

Page.

licenses to practice ; appeal in case of refusal

to issue; proceedings

872

display of license ; inspection .

872

persons regarded as veterinary practition-

ers .

872

not applicable to Army veterinarians, etc. 873

revocation of license; appeal proceedings.. 873

penalty for violations..

873

duty of corporation counsel.

873

Vetter, Christina (widow),

pension....

2563

Viall, John G.,

pension increased .

2521

Vice-President of the United States, appropriation for compensation . for secretary to, etc

400, 947 389, 935

deficiencyappropriation foradditional com-

pensation..

1371

compensation established ..

993

Vick, Caroline (widow), pension increased

2649

Vicksburg National Cemetery, Miss.,

appropriation for road to.

1347

right of way granted over road to.

849

Vicksburg National Military Park, Miss. ,

appropriation for establishing .

744, 1350

Victoria, British Columbia, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire ...

99 294, 924

Victoria, Tex.,

terms of court at

121

Vidal, Fernando M.,

deficiency appropriation for legal services . 1390

Vienna, Austria,

classification and salary of consul-general . 99

appropriation for clerk hire .

294, 924

Vincennes University, Ind.,

Vivian, John N., pension increased .

Fage. 1744

Vladivostok, Siberia,

classification and salary of consul ........

99

appropriation for interpreter at consulate. 294, 924

Volin, Joseph, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

374

Voluntary Personal Services,

acceptance by official, prohibited ; excep-

tion ..

49

Volunteer Soldiers ' Homes (see National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers).

Volunteers, appropriation for arrears of pay and bounty. 750,
1356

for commutation of rations....

750, 1356

deficiency appropriation for refund to

States, expenses raising...

46,666

for pay, etc. , Oregon and Washington ... 46, 666, 1404

for Mexican war

666

Volunteers, Spanish War,

issue of medals to, who served beyond term

of enlistment to suppress Philippine

insurrection ..

621

appropriation for..

621

Volusia Bar, Saint Johns River, Fla. ,

appropriation for improvement of ....

1086

Von Ezdorf, R. H.,

deficiency appropriation for reimbursement 1375

von Seggern, H.,

payment to.

2662

Voris, William D. ,

pension increased .

2336

Voris, William S.,

pension increased .

2558

Vorous, John,

pension increased

2460

obsolete arms, etc., in possession of, do-

Vose, Bettie May (widow) ,

nated for military instruction ..

834 pension increased ..

2425

Vincent, John T., pension increased.

Vose, Elizabeth A. (widow),

1839 pension increased .

1849

Vincent, Joseph J. , pension increased
Vincent, Jotham A. , pension increased

Voss, Charles F., 1738 pension increased
Vroman, Frank, 2791 pension increased .

1970 . 2556

Vinita, Okla.,

terms of court..

275

Virgin, Nelson,

pension increased .

2268

Virginia,

appropriation for Indian service in .... 376, 1050

bridge authorized across Tug Fork of Big

Sandy River, between West Vir-

ginia and..

891

Virginia Antiquities , Association for Preserva-

tion of,

Vroom, Julia A. (widow),

pension..

2424

Vrtyna, John,

payment to ..

2662

W.

W Street NW., D. C.,

appropriation for purchasing land for ex-

tending..

1008

assessment of benefits, etc

1008

appropriation for purchase or lease of pier,

Jamestown Island ; conditions.......

766

proceedings to condemn land for extending,

Flagler to Second streets, etc...

845

Virginia Western Judicial District,

appropriation for ...........

845

officers, etc. , at Big Stone Gap .

546 Wabash River,

terms of court .

547 bridge authorized across, at Mount Carmel,

Visgar, William P. ,

Ill .

820

pension increased

2683 Wabrass, John W. ,

Visiting Representatives of Foreign Govern-

pension...

1992

ments ,

Wacanga, Indian Allottee,

entertainment of, allowed from emergency

fee-simple title to .

357

appropriation . Visscher, Mary J. (widow),
pension... Vital Statistics, D. C.,

27 Waccamaw River, N. C. and S. C. ,

appropriation for improvement of...

1084

1558 Wade, Maggie,

added to Chickasaw final roll

340

regulations for reporting, etc. , births ...... 1010 Wadsten, Lars F. , alias Frederick,

Vital Statistics, etc.,

pension increased .

1888

appropriation for collecting by Census Of-

Wadsworth, Eliza F. (widow),

fice ...

443, 939 | pension...

2241

3630

INDEX .

Wadsworth, James W.,

Page.

appointed on Board of Managers, Volunteer

Soldiers' Home .

828

Wagenknecht, Jacob,

pension increased.

2004

Waggoner, Maria H. (widow),

pension increased .

2278

Wagher, Albert C.,

pension increased .

2453

Wagner, Adeliade (widow),

pension increased ..

2655

Wagner, Anna H. (widow),

pension increased .

1763

Wagner, Frederick W.,

pension increased .

2597

Wagner, Henry,

pension increased

2464

Wagner, John A. ,

pension increased .

2679

Wagon Service, Postal Service, appropriation for.. deficiency appropriation for..

472, 1211 658

Wagoner, John T.,

pension..

2006

Wagoner, Joseph H.,

pension increased.

1870

Wahcahunka, John , Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

374

Wahpeton, N. Dak. , appropriation for. Indian school .

360, 1042

for water supply . .

1042

Wainwright, Katherine F: (widow),

pension increased .

1716

Wajunhunta, Baptiste, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled

361

Wajunhunta, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may, be canceled

361

Wakefield, George L. ,

pension increased

2145

Wakefield, Va. ,

appropriation for watchman, care of dock

and monument at..

422, 967

for repairs to fence , etc.

1344

Wakefield, William,

pension increased ..

2723

Wakinyangi or Samuel, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

357

Wakulla River, Fla. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1112

Walden, David R.,

pension increased ..........

1915

Waldoboro, Me.,

enlargement of public building at , author-

ized ...

774

appropriation for.

790

Waldorph, Marvin,

pension increased .

2345

Waldron, Emma C. (widow ),

pension...

1892

Waldron, Jane E.,

appropriation for payment of judgment to . 1047

Waldron, Luke,

pension increased ..

1860

Walgwist, Johanna (widow),

pension increased .

1730

Walke, Lucy (widow),

pension.....

1480

Walker, Abraham,

pension increased .

2020

Wapleknesri, oAnninnacrBe.asLe.d

( .

widow),

2416

Walker, Anna Lamar (widow) ,

pension increased .

2250

Walker, Anna Mary, or Me khu bae, Indirn Allottee,
fee-simple title to. Walker, Annie M. (widow),
pension increased .

Pagé. 356 1936

Walker, Augustus,

pension increased

1626

Walker, Charles A.,

pension increased .

2066

Walker, E. P., deficiency appropriation for services ...... 1397
Walker, Freeman V.,

ordered before Army retiring board to de-

termine status on retired list ....

451

Walker, Henry H. A.,

pension increased .

2795

Walker, James D. ,

pension increased .

2635

Walker, John P.,

pension .

2752

Walker, Keziah (widow),

pension increased .

2441

Walker, Margaret, E. (widow),

pension increased .

2252

Walker, Morris H. ,

military record corrected .

2816

Walker River Indian Reservation, Nev.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

on .

358, 1040

deficiency appropriation for surveys ..

654

proclamation opening to settlement ceded

lands in...

3237

timber lands reserved for Indians of

358

Walker, Sadie A. (widow),

pension increased .

1582

Walker, William F.,

pension increased .

2101

Wall, Asa,

pension increased .

1812

Wall, James G.,

pension increased .

2057

Wall, Thompson,

pension increased .

2322

Walla Walla County, Wash. ,

bridge authorized across Columbia River,

between Benton County and ...

866

Walla Walla, etc. , Indians, Oreg. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of...... 367, 1045

Wallace, John G.,

pension increased .

1716

Wallace, William ,

pension increased .

2730

Wallace, William E.,

pension increased .

1986

Waller, Elizabeth A. (widow),

pension increased .

2204

Waller, John,

payment to..

2813

Waller, Rollin T.,

pension increased .

1844

Wallerson, Simon Peter, pension increased .
Wallis, Samuel P. , pension increased .

2436 2770

Wallowa Forest Reserve, Oreg..

proclamation establishing..

3004

including, in Imnaha Forest Reserve.... 3284

Walrod, Charles,

pension increased .

2364

Walrod, William,

pension increased .

1893

Walsh Company, W. C., deficiency appropriation for compensation . 1392

INDEX .

3631

Walsh, James W. , alias James Powers, pension increased .

Page. 2559

Walter, Dora C. (widow),

pension..

1879

Walter, John F. ,

pension increased .

1449

Walters, Abraham,

pension increased .

1636

Walters, Emma (widow),

pension increased .

2633

Walton, Edward,

pension increased

2294

Walton, Frederick B. ,

pension increased

2000

Walton, Levi J.,

pension increased .

1590

Walton, William B. ,

pension increased .

2770

Walworth County, S. Dak. , bridge authorized across Missouri River in .
between Dewey County and Walz, Julia (widow),
pension... Wamditowin, Indian Allottee,
allotment patent may be canceled .... Wannassy, Charles, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to .. Wanyanko Mani or Rev. Luke C. Walker,
fee-simple title to .. Wapaha, John B. , Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to .

193 95 2089 361 379 374 357

Wappinger Creek, N. Y., appropriation for improvement of.. ..... 1078

War College, Army,
appropriation for expenses. for maintenance ..

240, 1158 255, 1172

War College, Naval, appropriation for maintenance .
War Department,

557, 1179

appropriation for Secretary, Assistant,

clerks, etc....

417, 963

details of civilians prohibited to and

from Office of General Staff .

418

for clerks , etc. , Military Secretary's

Office ..

418, 964

Inspector-General's Office . Judge-Advocate-General's Office . Signal Office.. Quartermaster-General's Office .
Commissary-General's Office . Surgeon-General's Office... Paymaster-General's Office . Office of Chief of Ordnance . Office of Chief of Engineers . Bureau of Insular Affairs . for contingent expenses . for stationery for rent..

418, 964 418, 964 418, 964 419, 965 419, 965 419, 965 420, 965 420, 966 420, 966 421, 966 421, 966 421, 966 421, 967

for public buildings and grounds , clerks ,

gardeners, watchmen, etc ..

421 , 967

for State, War, and Navy Department

building, clerks, engineers, watch-

men , etc.

422, 968

for civil expenses under .

731 , 1339

for armories and arsenals .

731, 1339

for buildings and grounds, Washington ,

D. C.

733, 1341

for traveling expenses of the President . 1342

for telegraph, Capitol to Departments

and Printing Office...

735, 1343

for Washington Monument ..

735, 1343

for Grant Memorial ..

735

for McClellan statue .

736

for Lincoln Memorial , Hodgenville, Ky . 1343

War Department-Continued .

Page.

appropriation for Engineer Department,

rivers and harbors ...

736, 1073, 1344

for national cemeteries .

740, 1346

for bringing home remains of officers, etc. 741, 1347

for bringing home civilians and dis-

charged soldiers.....

741, 1347

for Yorktown Monument,Va., fence, etc. 742

for military posts..

742, 1348

for International Waterways Commis-

sion ...

743, 1351

for Fort Snelling, Minn .

743

for Fort Monroe...

743, 1348

for Fort Leavenworth, Kans. , military

prison ....

743

for military parks .

743, 1349

for maps..

744, 1350

for survey of northern and northwestern

lakes ..

744, 1350

for artificial limbs .

744, 1350

for appliances for disabled soldiers 745, 1350

for Providence Hospital, D. C ....... 745, 1350

for Garfield Hospital , D. C.

745, 1351

for California Débris Commission . 745, 1351

for New York Harbor..

745, 1350

for Jainestown Exposition , use of funds

for buoys, etc ..

1351

for National Home for Volunteer Sol-

diers ...

745, 1351

for aid to State and Territorial homes . 749, 1356

for back pay, bounty, and commutation

of rations..

750, 1356

stating balances..

1356

for arrears of pay, war with Spain, etc. 750, 1356

for printing and binding

760, 1367

work for Military Secretary's Office.... 1367

for support of the Army.

240, 1158.

for fortifications ..

462, 1058

for Military Academy.

521 , 1063

for headstones, etc., graves of Confed-

erates who died in Northern prisons

and hospitals

56

deficiency appropriation for Army.

32,

46, 645, 665, 668 , 843, 1381 , 1401, 1404

for Army General Hospital ...

32

for military puson, Fort Leavenworth,

Kans .

32

for national trophy, medals, etc. , rifle

contests

32

for Indiana State board of agriculture... 32

for burial of indigent soldiers .

33

for Isthmian Canal ..

33

for Volunteer Soldiers' Home ... 34, 1382, 1401

for State and Territorial homes .. 34, 644, 1383

for Court of Claims judgments under ... 44 ,

664, 1400

for refund to States, volunteers ..

46,666

for horses, etc. , claims ..

46

for Oregon and Washington Volunteers .. 46,

666, 1404

for Washington , D. C. , barracks ..

120

for Fort Donelson, Tenn. , cemetery .

644

for Fort Niagara, N. Y. , buildings .

644

for advertising .

644, 1380

for Statue of Liberty, N. Y.

644

for use of earthquake fund .

644

for De B. Randolph Keim

644

for California Débris Commission , earth-

quake losses .

644

for Deseret News ..

645

for Texas...

645

for judgments of United States courts

under .

663, 1399

for Commissary-General's Office .

665

3632

INDEX.

War Department-Continued .

Page.

deficiency appropriation for Mexican war

volunteers

666

for Secretary.

1380

for contingent expenses .

1380

for Lieut. R. W. Collins .

1380

for headstones for soldiers' graves.

46 ,

666, 1380, 1401

for claims of Confederate soldiers .

1381

for Rock Island , Ill., bridge ..

1381

for destroying ice gorge, Missouri River. 1381

for John W. McHarg

1381

for proceeds of property.

1401

chief of Bureau of Insular Affairs made a

brigadier-general .

456

Military Secretary's Office restored to Adju-

tant-General's Office...

1158

War of1812,

deficiency appropriation for paying claims

of New York and Pennsylvania ..

29

War with Spain, appropriation for arrears of pay...... 750, 1356 deficiency appropriation for arrears of pay. 28
for distributing medals to Navy and Marine Corps, service in West Indies .. 35

issue of medals to volunteers who served

beyond enlistment to suppress Phil-

ippine insurrection

621

War, Munitions of,

proclamation prohibiting export to Santo

Domingo of..

3183

Warburton, Barclay H.,

reimbursement to.

2658

Ward, Benjamin Q.,

pension increased

1733

Ward, Bolivar,

pension increased .

2092

Ward, Daniei,

pension increased .

1686

Ward, Edward Wesley,

pension increased .

2539

Ward, Jacob A.,

pension increased .

2675

Ward, James H.,

pension increased .

1741

Ward, John W.,

pension....

2109

Ward, Wenna (widow),

pension...

1733

Ward, William H. ,

pension increased

1952

Wardlaw, Martha E. (widow),

pension increased .

1841

Wardwell, Ernest H.,

pension increased .

1951

Ware, Rachel E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1567

Ware, Taylor,

granted honorable discharge..

2221

Warfel, George W.,

pension increased .

2806

Warfield, Ky.,

bridge authorized across Tug Fork of Big

Sandy River at

852

Warford, James H. ,

pension increased .

2185

Warford, Stacy B. ,

pension increased ..

2130

Warm Spring Agency, Oreg.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of...........

367, 1045

Warner, George,

pension increased

2123

Warner, Harvey, or Tae hu tam be, Indian Page.

Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

357

Warner, Henry, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

356

Warner, Ida M. (widow),

pension...

2192

Warner, John W.,

pension increased

1489

Warner, Thomas,

pension increased

2678

Warner, William,

appointed on Board of Managers, Volun-

teer Soldiers ' Home ..

828

Warnes, William,

pension increased

2046

Warnock, Catharine (widow),

pension increased .

2208

Warrant Machinists , Navy,

appointment of; annual limit .

553

Warrants, etc., Postal Service,

employee may be designated to sign, for

Postmaster-General ......

1206

Warrants, Lost, etc. ,

issue ofduplicates for ; restriction removed . 84

not exceeding $50 after 30 days ...................

84

Warren, George W.,

pension..

1881

Warren, Ohio,

appropriation for public building..

1304

limit of cost increased, public building............. 777

Warren Street NW. , D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for opening . 994

appropriation for..

994

Warren, William B. ,

pension increased .

2077

Warrensburg, Mo. ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized .

783

appropriation for.

795

Warrior River, Ala. ,

appropriation for improvement of; Locks

and Dams 1 , 2, and 3 .

737, 737

for improvement of; contracts.. Locks and Dams Nos. 2 and 3 .

1087 1088, 1345

Warsaw , Russia,

classification and salary of consul..

100

Warwick River, Md. ,

appropriation for improvement of..

1081

Wasatch Forest Reserve, Utah,

proclamation establishing.

3225

Wascher, Henry,

pension increased .

1603

Washburn, Charles,

pension increased .

1588

Washburn, Ella C. (widow), pension increased .

2639*

Washburn, George H.,

pension increased .

2290

Washburn, Jerome,

pension increased .

1566

Washington,

appropriation for Indian service in .... 377, 1050

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in...

377, 1050

for surveyor-general, clerks, etc

436, 981

for dredge for use in harbors, etc. , of

Oregon and..

1107

for reimbursing , survey of a township ... 1334

deficiency appropriation for pay, etc., vol-

unteers ..

46,666, 1404

allotment and disposal of lands in dimin-

ished Colville Reservation ....

80

canal from Lake Washington to Puget

Sound, authorized .

231

INDEX.

3633

Washington- Continued . Colville Forest Reserve, established... disposal of allotments on Columbia and Colville Reservation..
lands sold subject to taxation . entries prior to December 21 , 1904 , on Yak-
ima Reservation ceded lands confirmed .... forest reserves not to be created or added to
in, except by act of Congress...... homesteaders allowed leave of absence .

35

Page. 3288
55 56
1420 1271. 1421

time to prove residence, etc. , in, ex-

tended .

1421

irrigable lands on Yakima Indian Reser-

vation subject to reclamation act... 53

Olympic Forest Reserve, enlarged..

3306

Priest River Forest Reserve, Idaho and,

enlarged ..

3257, 3309

prosecutions for violations of Alaska sal-

mon fisheries act may be in ...

481

illegal fishing in Alaska may be in dis-

trict courts...

264

Rainier Forest Reserve , name of Mount Rainier Forest Reserve changed to, and area enlarged ..
reappraisement of certain suburban lots , Port Angeles town site...
subdivision and sale of certain lands in ...
auction sales; private sales... entries by bona fide occupants . time extended for final proofs, desert land
entries in Benton County ...

3296
167 229 229 229
1057

Washington Forest Reserve, area modi-

fied ..

3088, 3297

Wenaha Forest Reserve, established in

Oregon, and enlarged

3010 3279

Washington- Alaska Military Cable and Tele-

graph System,

appropriation for extensions, etc. , from re-

ceipts .

241 , 1159

Washington and Western Maryland Railroad

Company, extension of tracks authorized ; location .. 532

payment for right of way through Gov-

ernment land ..

533

bridges, crossings, etc ..

534

taking land for tracks, stations; assent' of

owners ..

534

condemnation proceedings .

534

time of construction ..

536

Washington Aqueduct, D. C.,

appropriation for operation, salaries, etc. 497, 1135

for dredging, etc. , Dalecarlia Reservoir . 1135

for filtration plant, expenses .

497, 1135

deficiency appropriation for maintenance . 642

Washington Asylum , D. C.,

appropriation for salaries and expenses . 508, 1149

for paying families of prisoners..

509, 1149

for additional land , new almshouse, etc. 510

for administration building, male work-

house ...

1149

for home for aged and infirm ..

509, 1150

for transporting prisoners ..

510, 1150

deficiency appropriation for contingent

expenses ..

642, 1372

use of balance .

642

Washington Barracks, D. C. ,

deficiency appropriation for filling, etc. ,

reservation .

120

Washington Bayou , Miss., preliminary examination of, to be made .. 1114
Washington Bridge Company,

may bridge Columbia River, Wenatchee , Wash..

Washington County, Miss. ,

Page.

construction of bridge authorized across Yazoo River by Holmes County and 112

Washington County, Pa. ,

time extended for bridging Monongahela

River at Webster, by Westmoreland

and .

17,876

Washington, D. C.,

appropriation for machinery, etc., naval

gun factory.

558, 1180

for public works, navy-yard .

565, 1187

for naval hospital , addition

1191

for marine barracks ...

1191

enlargement of custom-house at , author-

ized ....

775

appropriation for .

790

wharf for buoys, etc. , authorized

995

appropriation for ..

1319

Washington Eastern Judicial District,

deficiency appropriation for district judge. 41

Washington Forest Reserve, Wash. ,

proclamation modifying area of.

3088, 3297

Washington Market Company, D. C.,

may extend refrigerating pipes from Cen-

ter Market under Seventh street .

93

may erect ice plant, etc ..

873

Washington Monument, D. C.,

appropriation for care and maintenance . 735, 1343

for expenses..

735, 1343

Washington, N. C. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

780

appropriation for.... terms of court ..

793, 1304 1224

appointment of clerk.

1224

Washington, Pa.,

appropriation for public building ........

699

Washington Parish, D. C.,

restrictions on cemetery inclosures, etc. ,

repealed...

1236

Washington Seventh Day Baptist Church, D. C. ,

taxes refunded ..

869

Washington Sound, etc. , Wash. , appropriation for lighting..

713, 1320

Washington, Spa Spring and Gretta Railroad Company,

may extend road within District of Colum-

bia, conditions , etc ...

894

Washington Western Judicial District,

terms of court at Bellingham....

913

Washita County, Okla.,

change of county seat from Cloud Chief to

New Cordell, ratified ...............

50

Wasicuka, Indian Allottee,

alienation restrictions removed ..

361

Waskom, James,

pension increased .

2035

Water Department, D. C.,

appropriation for Washington Aqueduct ,

etc ....

497, 1135

for meters; repayment ..

513

for salaries..

514, 1154

for general expenses .

514, 1155

for extending system, installing meters,

etc .....

515, 1155

for repayment to Holly Manufacturing

Company..

515

refund of penalty to Allis-Chalmers Com-

pany..

2314

Water Hyacinth,

appropriation for removal from waters of

Florida .....

1087

Louisiana and Texas..

1090

3634

INDEX.

Water Meters,

Page.

appropriation for purchase, installation ,,

etc.; repayment...

513

for installation , etc ..

1155

Water Side Drive, Kalorama Heights, D. C.,

proceedings to condemn land for opening

highway to Park road from..

855

appropriation for .

855

Water Supply of the United States, appropriation for investigations to deter-

mine; reports ..

728, 1335

Wateree River, S. C.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1084

Waterfowl, D. C.,

restrictions on hunting, etc ......

809

Waters Ferry, Ala. , bridge authorized across Perdido River at. 79

Watertown Arsenal, Mass.,

appropriation for new machines.
for pattern shop.. for transportation facilities

464 464 732, 1340

for noncommissioned officers' quarters .. 1340

for fireproofing shops ...

1340

for foundry improvement..

1340

for testing machine....

732, 1340

Watertown, N. Y. ,

old public building to be taken down and

new one built on site ; materials .... 785

appropriation for.

796, 1305

rent .

1305

Watertown, S. Dak. ,

acquiring site and erecting public build- .

ing at, authorized ..

781

appropriation for...

794, 1305

Watertown, Wis.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ...

784

appropriation for.

796

Watervliet Arsenal, N. Y. ,

appropriation for electric motors .
for improvements, etc .. repeal ofprovision for oil house..

464 732, 1340
1340

Waterways Commission, International,

appropriation for continuing work of... 743, 1351

Watkins, David M.,

pension increased .

2394

Watkins, Frank B. ,

pension increased .

2066

Watkins, Letitia D. (widow) ,

pension increased

1618

Watkins, Samuel,

pension increased

2055

Watson, Angeline (widow),

pension increased .

1781

Watson, Eber,

pension increased

1573

Watson, James W.,

credit in accounts .

2215

Watson, Joseph,

pension increased

2081

Watson Manufacturing Company, L. S. ,

refund of customs fines to ..

2307

Watson, Mary B. (widow),

pension...

1917

Watson, Samuel S.,

pension increased

2676

Watson, Willis H.,

pension increased

1922

Watt, Thomas,

pension increased .

1777

"Waturus," Steam Yacht,

granted American register; coasting trade

forbidden ..

799

Waugh, Thomas W.,

pension increased

1831

Waukegan, Ill. ,

Page.

appropriation for improvement of harbor.. 1102

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

779

appropriation for..

792, 1305

Waukesha, Wis . ,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for..

796

Wausau, Wis., limit of cost increased , public building.... 774

appropriation for..

789, 1305

Way, Catherine (widow),

pension increased .

2624

Way, Thomas P.,

pension increased .

2435

Waycross, Ga.,

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

782

appropriation for.

794

transfer of table sirup station, to Georgia.. 696

Waymer, Satina A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2750

Wayne, Milton H. ,

pension increased ..

1875

Weather Bureau, Department of Agriculture,

appropriation for salaries ...

671, 1257

for fuel, lights, and repairs.. for contingent expenses..

671, 1258 671, 1258

for salaries of officials outside of Wash-

ington....

672

for salaries of station officials.

1258

for all other expenses..

672, 1258

sale of publications ..

1258

for printing and binding.

760, 1367

deficiency appropriation for general ex-

penses...

48, 667, 1403

Weatherby, Edmund P. ,

pension increased ..

2802

Weatherby, Harriet (widow), pension increased .
Weatherman, Calvin D. , pension increased .
Weathersby, Dora A. (widow),
pension . Weatherstone, James , Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to.. Weatherstone, Mary S. , Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to .. Weatherstone, Ralph, Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to. Weatherstone, William M. , Indian Allottee,
fee-simple title to .. Weatherwax, Charles Henry,
pension increased .. Weaver, Churles H. ,
pension increased .
Weaver, Edgar, pension increased.
Weaver, Joseph H. , pension increased .
Weaver, Sanford, pension increased

2200 1707 1721 374 374 374 374 2804 1971 2637 2108 2162

Weaverling, Martha J. (widow),

pension increased .

2633

Webb, Amanda M. (widow),

pension...

2231

Webb, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased .

1752

Webb, Frank A. ,

deficiency appropriation for sureties on

bond of..

29

Webb, James,

pension increased .

2032

INDEX .

3635

Webb, John M., pension increased ..

Page. Weights and Measures, International Commit- Page.

2243

tee,

Webb, Reuben C., pension increased ..
Webb, Robert, pension increased .
Webb, William H., pension increased .
Webber, Amanda O. (widow), pension increased .
Weber, August, pension increased .
Weber, Charles W., pension increased .
Weber, Henry, deficiency appropriation for refund of fine .
Webster-Ashburton Treaty, 1842,

2746 2380 2630 1856 2632 2237 1393

appropriation for expenses of member... Weimar, Germany,
classification and salary of consul ..... Weir's Chapel, Miss.,
payment to trustees of.. Weir, Patrick,
pension increased .
Weise, Ferdinand, pension increased..
Weiser Forest Reserve, Idaho,
proclamation establishing .
enlarging modifying boundaries of....
Weiser, Joel S., pension increased...

446, 991 100
2062 2335 1440 3054 3199 3294 1847

appropriation for marking boundary line

Weiss, Frank L. , alias Louis Weiss,

with Canada under....

292 pension increased....

2624

Webster City, Iowa,

construction of public building authorized

at..

777

appropriation for..

791 , 1305

Weisse, Emil S.,

pension.

2751

Wekiwa River, Fla. ,

preliminary examination of, to be made ... 1112

Webster, George W. , pension increased .

Welch, Carner C.,

2136 pension increased ..

1732

Webster, Mary, Indian Allottee,

Welch, G. H.,

fee-simple title to -.

381 payment to .

2662

Webster, Mass.,

Welch, Hannah (widow),

acquiring site for public building at, au-

pension increased ..

2673

thorized ..

782 Welch, John, Kentucky Volunteers,

appropriation for..

795 pension increased ..

2182

Webster, Moses , Indian Allottee,

Welch, John, Mexican War,

fee-simple title to ....

380 pension increased...

1592

Webster, Pa.,

time extended for bridging Monongahela

River at...

876

Webster, Phillip, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Webster, Rachel A. (widow) ,

pension increased .

2098

Webster, Silas, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

380

Webster, Sophia, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

381

Webster, William E.,

pension increased .

2810

Welch, Levi,

pension increased ..

2324

Welch, Thomas , Iowa Volunteers,

pension increased .

1554

Welch, Thomas , U. S. Navy,

pension increased .

2631

Welch, Thomas D.,

pension increased .

2132

Weldon, N. C. ,

bridge authorized across Roanoke River

at..

197

Weller, Herman G.,

pension increased .

2352

Wedeman, Peter,

Weller, Nelson J.,

pension increased ..

2740 pension increased .

2639

Wedertz, O. J., payment to.

Weller, William S.,

2662 ! pension increased .

2589

Weeks, Frank W., pension increased .

Wells, Alma L. (widow),

1433 pension increased...

1909

Weeks, Morgan H. ,

Wells, Alonzo,

pension increased ..

2702 pension increased ..

2058

Weeks, Stephen,

Wells , George W.,

pension increased .

1568 1 pension increased .

2764

Wehr, Solomon F.,
pension... Weiand, Henry A. ,
pension increased .

Wells, Henry W.,

1646 pension increased .

1469

Wells, John L.,

2509 pension increased ..

2218

Weigand, Mary A. (widow) ,

pension....

1889

Weigert, Catharine (widow),

pension increased..

2632

Weights and Measures , D. C.,

regulations of sales of provisions, etc. ,

by ....

316, 854

not to be under actual weight or meas-

ure..

854

berries, vegetables, and poultry ex-

cepted ..

316, 854

Wells, John M.,

pension increased ..

1474

Wells , William J.,

pension increased ..

2428

Wenaha Forest Reserve, Oreg. and Wash.,

proclamation establishing .

3010

enlarging.

3279

Wenatchee, Wash.,

bridge authorized across Columbia River at..

Wentz, William,

pension increased ....

2478

Weights and Measures, International Bureau of,

Wenzel, Adam,

appropriation for annual contribution... 290, 920 | pension increased ....

1475

3636

INDEX .

Werner, Adam,
pension. Wertman, William W. ,
pension increased .. Wescott, Edwin D.,
pension increased ..

Page. 1824
2618
2119

Wesson, Randolph,

pension increased ..

2530

West, Andrew J.,

deficiency appropriation for credit in accounts, Georgia militia expenses.... 637

West, Andrew J.,

pension increased ..

2429

West, Annie A. (widow),

pension increased ..

2129

West Bank Light Station, N. Y. ,

appropriation for raising..

710

for temporary structure

711

West Chester, Pa.,

limit of cost increased , public building.... 773

appropriation for .....

789

West, David W.,

pension increased ...

1900

West Galveston Bay and Brazos River Canal, Tex.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts .

1091

West Galveston Bay, Tex., appropriation for improvement of channel . 1091

West, Harry,

deficiency appropriation for additional pay. 662

West, Henry,

pension increased................

1807

West Indies,

appropriation for meteorological sta-

tions ....

672, 1258

deficiency appropriation for distributing
medals to Navy and Marine Corps for service in, war with Spain ...... 35

West, James,

pension increased ....

2493

West, James C.,

pension increased .

2442

West, John and David,

reimbursement to ..

2666

West, Joseph M. ,

pension increased .

1670

West, Lucius A. ,

pension increased .

1740

West Point, Miss.,

acquiring site for public building at , au-

thorized ..

783

appropriation for.

795

West Point , N. Y. (see Military Academy) .

West, Richard B.,

pension increased .

2374

West Tennessee College, Jackson, Tenn. ,

payment to trustees of.....

1859

West Virginia,

bridges authorized across Tug Fork of Big

Sandy River between Kentucky,

Virginia, and

891

West Virginia Northern Judicial District,

terms of court at Clarksburg ..

891

Martinsburg ..

891

Parkersburg..

891

Philippi..

891

Wheeling..

891

West, William W.,

pension increased .

1681

Westcott, William H.,

pension increased .

2271

Westenhaver, Alta M. (widow),

pension...

1596

Western Navajo Indian School, Ariz.,

Page.

deficiency appropriation for buildings, etc. 38

Western Shoshone Agency, Nev.,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

of..

358, 1040

Westervelt, Frank,

pension increased .

1652

Westfall, Charles L.,

pension increased..

2044

Westfield, August,

pension increased .

1445

Westman, Cornelius,

pension increased..

1903

Westminster Presbyterian Church, D. C.,

taxes refunded ..

869

Westmoreland County, Pa.,

time extended for bridging Monongahela

River at Webster, by Washington

and ..

17,876

Westmoreland, Oliver T.,

pension increased...

2573

Weston, Elizabeth (mother),

pension increased ...

1808

Weston, Henry,

pension increased .

1499

Westover, William &.,

pension increased ..

2013

Westport, Conn.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor. 1076

Wet Mountains Forest Reserve, Colo. ,

proclamation establishing ....

3096

Wetterich, Peter,

pension increased ..

1579

Weymouth Back River, Mass.,

appropriation for improvement of........ 1075

Whale, David, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Whale Island, Alaska,

construction of trestle authorized from mainland of Controller Bay to...... 803

Whalen, Daniel,

pension increased .

2197

Whaley, Lucius D. ,

pension increased .

1902

Whaley, Thomas B. ,

pension increased .

1832

Whaquiskun, Tom, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

378

Wharves, etc.,

construction of, permitted in Lake Michi-

gan by owners of adjoining lands,

Lake County, Ind ...

829, 834

Wharves, etc., Porto Rico,

construction of, in harbors, etc.; restric-

tions ...

234

Wheeler, Carlton A. ,

pension increased.

1661

Wheeler, George W.,

pension increased .

2389

Wheeler, Henry A. ,

pension increased .

1717

Wheeler, Joseph,

pension increased .

2510

Wheeler, Willard,

pension increased.

2612

Wheeler, William,

pension increased .

1830

Wheeling, W. Va. ,

appropriation for public building .............. 699, 1305

bridge authorized across Ohio River at ..

466

inspector of hulls and boilers for, abolished . 106

terms of court at..

891

Wheelock, Archie, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

38

INDEX .

3637

Wheelock, Dennison, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to

Page. 380

Wheelock, Henry, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

381

Wheelock, James, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

381

Wheelock, Lehi, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

380

Whipple Barracks, Ariz. ,

appropriation for post hospital

1172

Whipple, Lina, or Wihaki, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to..

357

Whipple, Samuel, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

357

Whipple, Thomas , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

357

Whipple, Thomas, or Cantanna, Indian

Allottee,

fee-simple title to

357

Whipple, Warren W.,

pension increased .

2669

Whisler, Mary (daughter) ,

pension...

2221

Whistling of Steam Vessels,

regulation of..

881

Whitaker, Ann W. (widow),

pension increased ..

2210

Whitaker, William A.,

pension increased .

2521

Whitcomb, Anne B. (widow),

pension increased .

2664

Whitcraft, Laurence V. ,

pension increased .

1784

White, Alethia (widow),

pension..

2484

White, Alfred F.,

pension increased .

1602

White, Andrew D. ,

reappointed on Board of Regents, Smith-

sonian Institution .

827

White, Ann E. (widow),

pension increased.......

2354

White, Annie B. , Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .....

373

White, Arthur W.,

military record corrected .

2467

White, Ashley,

pension increased .

2733

White, Charles,

payment to .

2662

White, Christina (widow),

pension increased..

1964

White Dog, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

356

White Earth Agency , Minn.,

appropriation for Indian agent at .

349, 1032

White Earth Indian Reservation, Minn.,

removal of alienation restrictions, allot-

ments in....

353

town site authorized ; sale of lots, etc..

1032

alienation restrictions removed of lands of

mixed-blood adult Indians.....

1034

of full -blood Indians; condition .

1034

White, Edward T. ,

pension.

1921

White, Elisha,

pension increased ...

1518

White Fly,

appropriation for experiments for eradi-

cation of....

688, 1274

White, George F.,

pension increased .

2136

White, Harrison,

pension.....

1571

VOL XXXIV, PT 3- -66

White House (see Executive Mansion).

Page.

White, James, Iowa Volunteers, pension increased..

... 1680

White, James, Mexican War,

pension increased..

2049

White, James, U. S. Artillery,

pension increased ..

1632

White, Jennie (widow),

pension increased ..

1917

White, John,

pension increased .

2448

White, John F.,

pension increased ..

1852

White Lake, Mich.,

appropriation for improvement of harbor...... 1097

White, Lorinda J. (widow),

pension increased.

1950

White Mountains,

appropriation for survey, etc., and report on watersheds, as a forest reserve .... 1281

White Oak Coal Company,

deficiency appropriation for ..........

1391

White Oak River, N. C.,

preliminary examination of, to be made... 1116

White, Rebecca A. (widow),

pension increased ..

1460

White River, Ark. ,

appropriation for improvement of...

1093

canal, etc., authorized at Lock and Dam

No. 1 ...

536

dam authorized across, above Lock No. 3;

deed to United States after construc-

tion ...

628

White River Ute Indians, Utah, appropriation for irrigating lands of..... 375 , 1049

White, Robert H.,

pension increased .

2703

White, Robert M.,

pension increased .

1792

White, Samuel,

pension increased .

2225

White, Samuel A. ,

pension increased .

1970

White Shoal, Lake Michigan,

light station established at ..

995

appropriation for...

1319

White, Silas V.,

pension increased .

2296

White, Thomas W.,

pension increased .

2285

White, Whitman V. ,

pension increased .

2031

White, William A. ,

deficiency appropriation for reimbursing...... 37

Whiteman, James,

pension increased .

1465

Whiteowl, Thomas , or Hin han skaden, Indian

Allottee,

fee-simple title to

357

Whiting, John H.,

pension increased .

2070

Whiting, Mary, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to

356

Whitley, Eliza E. (widow),

pension..

2206

Whitlock, James S.,

pension increased .

2229

Whitlock, William N., pension increased .

.. 1962

Whitman County, Wash..

bridge authorized across Snake River,

between Columbia County and................ 107

Whitman, George,

pension increased ... .

1802

3638

INDEX .

Whitman, John L., pension increased ..

Page. 1476

Whitman, Melissa D. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2556

Whitmore, Betsey B. (widow),

pension increased .

1954

Whitney, Barney,

pension increased ..

1634

Whitney, William G. ,

pension increased .

2629

Whitson, Robert M.,

pension increased .

1534

Whittaker Home, Ind. T.,

appropriation for care of Indian orphans ... 339

Whitten, Massalon,

payment to heirs of..

2153

Whooping Cough, D. C.,

provisions to prevent spread of..

889

Whorton, Susan (widow),

pension increased .

1573

Whybark, Samuel W:,

pension increased .

2329

Wicanhpidutauin, Charles, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

357

Wichita, etc., Indians, Okla.,
appropriation for support, etc., of . Wichita Forest and Game Preserve, Okla.,

361, 1043

appropriation for providing range, etc. , for

buffaloes on ..

696

Wichita Forest Reserve, Okla.,

proclamation enlarging boundaries of...

3207.

setting apart as a game preserve

3062

Wichita, Kans.,

enlargement of public building at , author-

1

ized ..

774

appropriation for...

790, 1305

Wichita Mountain and Orient Railway Com-

pany, granted right of way through Fort Sill Mili-

tary Reservation, Okla....

613

Wicite, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled ...

361

Wickatena, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled ....

361

Wickens, Philip, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

365

Wickens, Phillip, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

365

Wickford, R. I. ,

preliminary examination of harbor, to be

made ..

1116

Wickham, William H. ,

pension increased .

2507

Wickline, John,

pension increased .

2210

Wicks, George W.,

pension increased .

1920

Wicomico River, Md., appropriation for improvement of......... 1081

Widen, Almon,

payment to..

2662

Wife Desertion, D. C. ,

punishment for willful ..

86

Wigal, Jacob,

pension increased ..

1951

Wiggins, Ezra H. ,

pension increased .

2000

Wiggins, William,

pension increased .

2638

Wilber, Calvin D.,

pension increased .

1928

Wilborn, David,

pension...

2298

Wilburn, George W.,

pension increased ..

1520

Wilburton, Ind. T.,

Page.

terms of court, etc. , recording district No. 30 342

Wilcher, William L.,

pension increased .

2040

Wilcox, Absalom ,

pension increased .

1846

Wilcox, Belah H.,

pension increased .

2592

Wilcox, George J.,

pension increased .

1528

Wilcox, Jefferson,

pension..

2476

Wilcox, John S.,

pension increased .

1501

Wilcox, Joseph P. , pension increased .

2676

Wilcox, Thomas M., pension increased .
Wild Animals, game preserve for, in Grand Canyon Forest
Reserve, Ariz ...... Wilde, Hiram,
pension increased . Wildman, John P.,
pension increased .

2288
607 1674 2720

Wildy, Henry C.,

pension increased .

1441

Wiles, Adam,

pension increased...

2345

Wiley, Andrew and Susie, Indian Allottees,

alienation restrictions removed .

346

Wiley, George, Indiana Volunteers, pension increased ..

2760

Wiley, George, Iowa Volunteers,

pension increased......

1541

Wiley, Jesse,

pension increased .

2041

Wiley, William ,

pension increased .

1987

Wiley, William T.,

pension increased .

1535

Wilhelm, Henry,

pension increased .

1843

Wilhelm, John, pension increased .
Wilkerson, Isom, pension increased .

1794 2089

Wilkins, Elijah R.,

pension increased .

1509

Wilkins, James B.,

pension increased .

1679

Wilkins, William R.,

pension increased .

2598

Wilkinson, James,

pension increased ..

1615

Wilkinson, John, Missouri Infantry,

pension increased ..

2099

Wilkinson, John, South Carolina Infantry,

pension increased .

1752

Wilkinson, John W. ,

pension increased ..

2519

Will, Henry P.,

pension.

1685

Will, Isaac N. S.,

pension increased ....

2304

Willamette River, Oreg.,

appropriation for lighting ......

713, 1320

for improvement of, below Portland . 738, 1107

for improvement of, above Portland ...... 1107

Willapa River, Wash.,

appropriation for improvement of... .... 1108

Willapa, Wash., appropriation for improvement of harbor... 1108

Willard, Joseph W.,

pension increased .

1547

INDEX.

3639

Willard, Verelle S. (widow), pension increased .

Page. 1707

Willey, Ethan A.,

pension increased .

2163

Willey, William H.,

pension increased .

2514

Willhelmy, Henry B. ,

pension increased ..

2226

Williams, Albina M. (widow),

pension increased .

2652

Williams, Allen E.,

pension increased .

1702

Williams, Allie (widow), pension increased...

2240

Williams, Anna (widow) ,

pension increased ..

2418

Williams, Aquila, pension increased ..
Williams, Benjamin F., pension increased .

2492 2604

Williams, Byron A., pension increased.
Williams, C. R. , payment to .

2452 1773

Williams, Catharine (widow),

pension increased .

2546

Williams, Deloss,

pension increased .

2053

Williams, F. C.,

payment to.

2662

Williams, Harriet (widow),

pension increased .

1822

Williams, Herbert,

pension increased .

1750

Williams, James,

pension increased ..

1833

Williams, John,

pension increased .

1805

Williams, John A. , pension increased ..
Williams, John R., deficiency appropriation for services....
Williams, John W., payment to ...
Williams, Joseph B. , pension increased .

2431 43
2152 2319

Williams, Lemuel P.,

pension increased .

1572

Williams, Lemuel T.,

pension increased ..

2439

Williams, Lucretia,

title to certain lands in Louisiana con-

firmed to heirs, etc ...

896

entries authorized for other lands ..

897

Williams (née Jamieson) , Maria, Indian Allot-

tee,

alienation restrictions removed .

346

Williams, Martin, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to .

380

Williams, Mary Levina (widow),

pension increased ..

2755

Williams, Matilda J. (mother),

pension...

2087

Williams, Parker,

deficiency appropriation for extra services . 1396

Williams, Robert S.,

pension increased .

1467

Williams, Samuel F.,

pension increased .

1910

Williams, Sarah R. (widow),

pension increased .

2314

Williams, Susan J. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1563

Williams, Thomas L.,

pension increased .

2554

Williamson, Basil, payment to ..

Page. 2662

Williamson, Jane (widow),

pension increased ..

2621

Williamson, John,

pension increased ..

2022

Williamson, John M.,

pension increased ..

1522

Williamson, Julius T.,

pension increased..

1661

Williamson, Oscar,

pension increased ..

1535

Williamson, Peter J.,

pension increased ..

2372

Williamson, Robert D. ,

pension increased ..

1980

Williamson, W. Va..

bridge authorized across Tug Fork of Big

Sandy River at.

69, 1004

Williby, Robert B.,

pension increased .

1915

Willie, William H.,

pension increased .

2118

Willimantic, Conn.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized .

778

appropriation for.

792, 1305

Willis, Cornelius A. ,

pension increased ..

2620

Willis , Edward,

pension increased ..

2598

Willis, William D.,

pension...

2085

Willison, George W. ,

pension increased..

2546

Williston Land District, N. Dak.,

created; land office ..

148

register and receiver authorized .

149

Willoughby Spit Military Reservation, Va.,

right of way granted through..

1249

Wills,

acknowledgment required for, full-blood

Indians....

145

Wills, Katherine (widow),

pension increased.

1846

Willson, Thomas A.,

pension increased ..

2668

Willy, George,

pension increased .

2050

Wilmer, Hannah E. (widow),

pension..

1852

Wilmington, Cal. ,

appropriation for improvement of harbor... 740,

1106 , 1346

preliminary examination to be made of

harbor..

1112

Wilmington, Del. , appropriation for improvement of harbor... 1081

Wilmington, N. C.,

terms of court..

1224

Wilsey, Mary C. (widow) ,

pension..

1944

Wilson, Alexander B.,

pension increased .

2194

Wilson, Alvah D. ,

pension increased ...

2667

Wilson, Anna M. (widow) ,

pension increased ..

1755

Wilson, Eliza B. (widow),

pension...

1687

Wilson, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased .....

2502

Wilson, Helon (widow),

pension increased ..

2546

3640

INDEX .

Wilson, Henrietta W. (widow), pension increased .

Page. Winebrener, David C., 1910 pension increased....

Page. 2187

Wilson, Henry W.,

Wines (see Fortifying Pure Sweet Wines) .

pension increased .

2782 Wines, Albert,

Wilson, Hugh G.,

pension increased..

1631

pension increased .

1757 Winfrey, Mary (widow),

Wilson, James, New York Volunteers,

pension.

1759

pension increased ....

1772 Winget, John P.,

Wilson, James, Pennsylvania Volunteers,

pension increased .

1552

pension increased .

1540 Winkler, James J.,

Wilson, James R.,

pension...

2011

pension increased .

2619 Winn, Dennis,

Wilson, John L., pension increased .
Wilson, John W.,

pension increased .

2036

2511 Winn, William ,

pension increased....

1735

pension increased . Wilson, Martha J. (widow ),
pension increased . Wilson. Mary (widow'),
pension increased ..
Wilson, Robert R. , pension increased .

2653 Winnebago Indian Allottees, Nebr. , fee-simple patents authorized to certain ... 356

1702 Winnebago Indians,

appropriation for fulfilling treaty with .. 355, 1040

2389 Winnipeg, Manitoba,

classification and salary of consul ...

99

1749 Winnipeg, Yankton and Gulf Railroad Com-

Wilson, Sarah A. (widow), pension increased .
Wilson, Thomas H., pension increased .

pany,

2376 time extended for bridging Missouri River,

Yankton, S. Dak...

10, 897

1796 Winsell, Davia N.,

Wilson, Van C. ,

pension increased .

1950

pension... Wilson, William,
pension increased .
Wilson, William F., pension increased .
Wilson, William G., pension increased ..
Winans, Clark A. , pension increased ..
Winans, James J., pension increased ..

2788 Winston, N. C.,

appropriation for public building ....

1305

1429 deficiency appropriation for furniture, pub-

lic building..

1374

1641 Winston-Salem, N. C.,

limit of cost increased , public building ... 773

2397

appropriation for ..

789

Winters, Clara E. (daughter) ,

1738 pension..

1516

· Winters, Ephraim,

1442 pension increased ..

1842

Winans, William H.,

Winters, Ida L. (daughter),

pension increased ..

2121 pension...

1516

Winchester, Ky.,

Winters, William H.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

pension...

1873

at, authorized ..

779 Wintersteen, Clinton B.,

appropriation for .....

792, 1305 pension increased..

1955

Winchester, Va.,

Wintersteen, James,

acquiring site and erecting public building

pension increased .

2317

at, authorized ...

781 Winton, Charles F.,

appropriation for.... WindCave National Park, S. Dak.,

794, 1305

claims of estate of, against Mississippi Choctaws referred to Court of Claims ... 140

appropriation for management, etc ..... 729, 1337 Winyah Bay, N. C.,

Wind River Indian Reservation, Wyo.,

appropriation for improvement of ..... 1084, 1344

appropriation for irrigation , lands of Indians

Wiper, Robert,

on ceded ...

1052 pension increased ...

1446

lease oflands for sanatorium authorized .

1052 Wireless Telegraphy,

proclamation opening to entry ceded por-

appropriation for installing on revenue

tion of

3208

cutters .....

1309

entries for ceded lands , to be made at

station at Jamestown Exposition may be

Shoshoni ..

3222

erected ....

765

time extended for opening to entry ceded portion of....
homesteaders to establish residence on opened lands of..
Windsor, Nova Scotia,

Wireless Telegraph Stations, 825 appropriation for naval, on Pacific coast ... 560
Wisconsin, 849 appropriation for Indian service in ..... 379, 1051
grant of land to, for forest reserve ; reversion . 517

classification and salary of consul .......... Windsor, Ontario,
classification and salary of consul ......... Wine.

100

sales of agricultural lands; proceeds for

reforestation of State reserves ...... 518

100 Wise, David J.,

pension increased ....

2498

constitutional restrictions of sale , etc., in

Wise, Jacob T.,

Oklahoma .

269 pension increased .

2292

Wine, M. J.,

Wise, John W.,

certificates of soldiers ' additional home-

pension increased .

1813

stead rights made valid .....

49 Wise, Samuel,

Wine Spirits,

pension increased .

2418

recovery of, used in fortifying pure sweet

Wishart, John P.,

wines ; special permits, taxes, etc ... 215 pension increased .

1888

INDEX.

3641

Wisnewski, J. F.,
granted honorable discharge .. Witham, Asaph H..
pension increased...

Page. 2232
2416

Witherspoon, Eliza Jane (widow),

pension increased ..

2108

Witherwax, Isaac H.,

pension increased..

1577

Withlacoochee River, Fla.,

appropriation for improvement of; con-

tracts..

1087

Witnesses, United States Courts, appropriation for fees.........

755, 1361

deficiency appropriation for fees..

205

667, 1390, 1403, 1405

competency of, to follow State or Terri-

torial laws, in civil cases...

618

immunity of, in antitrust, interstate com-

merce, etc., cases, to natural per-

sons only.

798

Witt, Mary A. (widow),

pension increased .

1809

Wittig, Charles M. ,

pension increased ..

1491

Woburn, Mass.,

acquiring site for public building at , author-

ized ...

783

appropriation for .

795

Wolcott, Thomas,

pension increased .

1723

Wolf, Andrew H.,

pension increased .

1943

Wolf Creek, Ky.,

bridge authorized across Tug Fork of Big

Sandy River at.

1002

Wolf, Mary E. (widow),

pension increased ..

1544

Wolf River, Miss.,

appropriation for improvemen of......... 1088

Wolf, Robert M.,

pension increased .

2796

Wolfe, Elizabeth (widow),

pension increased ..

2804

Woman and Child Workers,

investigation directed of industrial, etc. ,

condition of.............

866

appropriation for .

1330

Woman's Relief Corps, D. C. , punishment for unauthorized insignia of...
Women's Clinic, D. C. , appropriation for maintenance
Wonder, James A. , pension increased .
Wontner and Sons,
appropriation for services.. Wood, Ahimaaz E. ,
pension increased . Wood, Almon,
pension increased . Wood, E. A. ,
payment to . Wood, Ernest E.,

wearing 62
510, 1151 · 2527
1291
1946
2571
2662

deficiency appropriation for contested-

election expenses.......

661

Wood, Frederick,

pension increased .

2724

Wood, Frederick M.,

pension increased .

1790

Wood, George E.,

pension increased .

2003

Wood, Harvey F.,

pension increased .

2524

Wood, James B.,
pension increased . Wood, James M.,
pension.... Wood, Jonathan,
pension increased . Wood, Kate O'Donnell (widow) ,
pension increased. Wood, Louisa L. (widow),
pension increased . Wood, Lydia C. (widow),
pension increased.. Wood, Marcus,
pension increased . Wood, Martha E. (widow),
pension increased . Wood, Martha L. (widow),
pension increased . Wood, Nathan S. ,
pension increased . Woodall, Asenith (widow),
pension increased . Woodard, Andrew C.,
pension increased . Woodard, Eli B.,
pension increased . Woodard, George H.,
pension increased .
Woodbridge Creek, N. J., appropriation for improvement of.........
Woodbury, Anna M. (widow), pension increased .....
Woodbury, Eli, pension increased..
Woodbury, N. J., obsolete cannon donated to General Howell
Post, G. A. R. , for monument ..... Woodcock, William D. ,
pension increased .
Woodin, Alfred, pension increased .
Woodruff, Jacob, pension increased .
Woods, Benjamin T., pension increased .
Woods, George S., pension increased ..
Woods Hole, Mass. , appropriation for improvement of channel .
Woods , Jesse, pension increased..........
Woods, William, pension increased ..
Woodstock, New Brunswick, classification and salary of consul...
Woodsum, John E., pension increased .
Woodward, Charles A. , pension increased .
Woodward, Crosby Pyle, pension increased .
Woodward, Helen L. (widow) ,
pension... Woodward, York A. ,
pension increased.

Page. 2508 2748 1606 2419 2538 1674 2266 2505 2182 2681 2027 2093 2744 1950 1079 2676 2018
829 2036 1818 2091 2738 2508 740 1870 1808 100 1640 2717 1660 2419 2051

Woodworth, Isaac M. , pension increased ."
Woolley, Charles Woodruff, pension increased ..

* 1704 2592

Woolley, Daniel,

pension increased .

1654

Woolley, Susan (widow),

pension increased ..

2336

3642

INDEX.

Woonsocket, R. I.,

Page.

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

781

appropriation for.

793 , 1305

Word, Charles S.,

pension increased..

1609

Workhouse, D. C. (see Washington Asylum ) .

Working Boys' Home and Children's Aid As-

sociation, D. C.,

appropriation for maintenance .

512

Workman, Andrew J. ,

pension increased ..

2149

Workman, Isabella (widow),

pension increased .

1489

Worley, Henry C.,

pension increased .

2358

Worley, John H.,

pension increased .

2299

Worrall, Emma (widow'),

pension increased .

1941

Worrell, James P. ,

pension increased .

2743

Worth, Maud O. (widow),

pension...

1727

Wospimaniwin, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to ..
Wotring, Jehu F. , pension increased .

357 2386

Wrapping Paper, Postal Service, appropriation for..
Wrecks, registry of foreign built, repealed .... vessel for removal of, authorized . appropriation for .
Wren, Michael, pension increased .

476, 1215
17 190 703, 1309
1531

Wrenn, Martha Ella (widow),

pension increased ..

2558

Wright, Benjamin F.,

pension increased .

2433

Wright, David L. ,

pension increased..

1455

Wright, Henry John,

appropriation for services...

722

Wright, Jonathan I.,

pension increased ..

2030

Wright, Judd,

may dam Crow Wing River, between Morrison and Cass counties, Minn....... 296

Wright, M. D.,

reimbursement to .

2659

Wright, Martha W. (widow),

pension increased .

2470

Wright, Olney P. B.,

pension increased .

1558

Wright, Orestes B.,

pension increased ..

1865

Wright, Phebe (mother),
pension.. Wright, William,
pension increased.. Wright, William John,
deficiency appropriation for moiety, immi-
gration law fine !.........

2799 2126
660

Writs of Error, United States Courts,

allowed by United States to Supreme

. Court in criminal cases..

1246

from decisions on demurrers , as to statute

on which indictment founded ...

1246

arresting judgment for insufficiency of

indictment, based on statute...

1246

sustaining special plea in bar, if de-

fendant not in jeopardy..

1246

to be taken in 30 days, etc.

1246

bail allowed pending determination ..... 1246

Writs of Error, United States Courts-Cont'd. Page.

not allowed when verdict in defendant's

favor..

1246

Wucher, Adam,

pension increased .

1530

Wyandotte Indians,

cemetery at Kansas City, Kans. , to be sold;

removal of bodies...

348

per capita distribution of proceeds ..

348

settlement of ferry claim..

348

Wyatt, Finus M.,

pension increased ..

2782

Wyman, Emery,

pension increased ..

2131

Wyman, Martin V. B.,

pension increased ..

2458

Wyman, Sumner P.,

pension increased..

1761

Wyman, William H. ,

pension increased ..

2772

Wynde, Mary, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple titleto..

373

Wynkoop, Louise M. (widow),

pension increased .

1827

Wynn, Elkanah M.,

pension increased..

1461

Wyoming,

appropriation for Indian service in..... 383, 1051

for incidental expenses, Indian service

in........

384, 1051

for surveyor-general, clerks , etc ..

436, 981

for marking, etc. , southeastern boundary. Bear Lodge Forest Reserve, established .. Caribou Forest Reserve, Idaho and, estab-
lished ..

1334 3287
3267

certain lands in Yellowstone Forest Re-

serve, opened to homestead entry.. 62 .

Devils Tower National Monument, set

aside .......

3236

forest reserve not to be created or added- to

in, except by act of Congress ....

1271

homesteaders allowed leave of absence.. 1419

time to prove residence, etc. , in, ex-

tended ...

1421

land laws extended to cession of Shoshones

and Arapahos..

78

lands granted for miners' hospital and Car-

bon County institutions may be exchanged for other public lands .... 92

may exchange certain lands for other pub-

lic lands ...

1055

Medicine Bow Forest Reserve, Colo. , and,

area enlarged ...

3039, 3303

proclamation opening to entry. ceded lands

of Shoshone Indian Reservation .... 3008

entries for ceded lands to be made at

Shoshoni .

3222

sale of public lands to Johnson County,

authorized ...

186

Shoshone or Wind River Reservation, time extended for opening..
Sierra Madre Forest Reserve, established . Uintah Forest Reserve, Utah and, estab-
lished ... boundaries changed ..
enlarged Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Mont . , Idaho
and, area enlarged area modified ...

825 3242
3186 3207 3240
3049 3091

Wyoming Avenue, D. C. , deficiency appropriation for extending........ 641

Wyoming Judicial District,

term of court, Evanston .

111

Wytheville, Va.,

appropriation for fish hatchery.......

721

INDEX.

3643

Y.

Page.

Yachts, gasoline for launches, allowed on vessels ·
not carrying passengers for hire ..... 204

Yachts, Steam,

subject to steamboat inspection require-

ments ..

194

Yager, George E.,

pension increased ..

2189

Yah Him Aloo, or Mary, Indian Allottee,

fee-simple title to ..

378

Yahn, William,

pension increased ..

2622

Yakima Agency, Wash. ,

appropriation for support, etc. , of Indians

at ..

377, 1050

for telephone line ..

1050

Yakima Indian Reservation, Wash. ,

deficiency appropriation for opening lands

ceded on; reimbursement .

205

entries prior to December 31 , 1904, con-

firmed ..

1420 !

surplus and unallotted lands withdrawn

for irrigation...

53

subject to homestead entry under reclamation act....

payments ; additional irrigation

charges..

forfeiture on nonpayment..

53

allotted or patented irrigable lands may be

sold ..

54

restriction; forfeiture for nonpayment... 54

disposal of proceeds ..

54

construction and maintenance charges to

be paid into reclamation fund ..

54

water rights to lands held in fee..

54

perpetual water right to Indians ...

54

use of tribal funds for maintenance , etc. 54

patents in fee to purchasers of allotments

in reclamation projects..........

54

irrigation works may be included in recla-

mation project..

55

regulations, etc. , authorized ..

55

Yakima Indians,

appropriation for extending irrigation sys-

tem on lands of..

377, 1050

fee-simple patents to certain allottees...

379

Yamhill River, Oreg.,

appropriation for improvement of......... 1107

Yankton Agency, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for Indian agent at . .... 370, 1046 Yankton Indian Reservation, S. Dak. ,

appropriation for artesian wells.

371

Yankton, Norfolk and Southern Railway Com-

pany,

time extended for bridge across Missouri

River at Yankton, S. Dak. , by .... 9 , 1058 Yankton, S. Dak. ,

limit of cost increased , public building... 774

appropriation for..

789

time extended for bridging Missouri River

at..

9, 10, 897, 1058

Yarmouth, Nova Scotia,

classification and salary of consul....

100

Yates, Henry W.,

pension increased .

1682

Yazoo City, Miss.,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ..

779

appropriation for..

793, 1305

Yazoo County, Miss.,

bridge authorized across Yazoo River, by

Holmes County and...

618

33335

Yazoo River, Miss., appropriation for improvement of. bridge authorized across, Belzoni , Miss... in Yazoo and Holmes counties, Miss ....
Yeargin, John F. , pension increased .
Yehl, Samuel, pension increased...
Yellow Fever,

Page. 1088 112 618
2515
2094

appropriation for prevention of epi-

demic ...

709, 1316

establishing quarantine stations to prerent

introduction of...

299

Yellowstone Forest Reserve, Wyo . , Mont. and

Idaho,

proclamation adding lands in Idaho to.. 3049

modifying area .

3291

certain lands in, opened to homestead en-

tries; conditions .

62

Yellowstone National Park,

appropriation for commissioner .

447, 992

for administration, etc ..

729, 1337

for keeping buffaloes ..

729, 1337

for maintenance, etc.

743, 1349

leases for hotels, etc. , at not more than ten

places in, permitted ..

207

may be for twenty years ..

1219

mortgage of franchises, etc .; record

208

subject to terms of lease, etc ..

208

Yellowstone River,

bridge authorized across , in Montana...... 97

Yerba Buena Island, Cal.,

appropriation for naval training station . 556, 1178

for public works, training station .... 567 , 1189

for public works, marine barracks ..........

569

Yerington, Mary B. (widow),

pension..

2742

Yiowastewin, Indian Allottee,

allotment patent may be canceled ........ 361

Yockey, Sarah E. (widow),

pension increased ...

1845

Yoder, David,

pension increased ..

2513

Yokohama, Japan,

classification and salary of consul-general .` 99

appropriation for clerk hire.......

293, 924

for naval hospital, land ..

568

Yonkers, N. Y. ,

acquiring site and erecting public building

at, authorized ...

780

appropriation for ......

793, 1305

York, Caswell,

pension increased ...

2382

York, George E.,

pension increased .

2607

York, Nebr.,

construction of public building authorized

at .

777

appropriation for . York, Simeon,
pension increased.. York, Pa. ,

791 , 1305 2291

acquiring site for public building at, au-

thorized ..

784

appropriation for .

795

York River, Va. ,

appropriation for lighting. for improvement of..

713, 1320 1082

Yorktown Monument, Va.,

appropriation for fence, etc..

742

Yosemite National Park, Cal.,

appropriation for management, etc..... 729, 1337

addition of Yosemite Valley and Mariposa

Big Tree Grove to ..

831

3644

INDEX.

Yosemite National Park, Cal .-Cont'd. new boundaries established .. excluded lands added to Sierra Forest Reserve ...
receipts to be used for improvement, etc. Yosemite Valley, Cal. ,
recession from California accepted , and added to Yosemite National Park..

Page. 831 832 832
831

Yost, Casper, pension increased .
Youghiogheny River, Pa., preliminary examination of, to be made ..
Youmans, Ashley A., pension increased ..
Young, Ellen, Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Young, Frank H. , Indian Allottee, fee-simple title to..
Young, George, pension increased ..
Young, Harry A., military record corrected..
Young, James F. , pension increased .
Young, John Lewis, payment to....
Young, Joshua, Indian Allottee, alienation restrictions removed .
Young, Kate E. (widow) ,
pension.. Young, Le Grand,
exchange of lands, Tort Douglas , Utah, with ..
appropriation for lands and expenses . Young, Lewis,
pension increased .
Young, Robert M., pension increased .
Young, Sarah, (widow), pension increased ..

1614 1116 1649
373 357 2518 2818 2393 2152 346 1826
612 613 2667 1706 2143

Young, W. A. ,

payment to .

2662

Youngkin, Joel R.,

pension increased ..

2036

Youngman, Alden,

pension increased ..

2540

Youngstown, Ohio,

enlargement of public building at, author-

ized ...

775

appropriation for..

.... 790, 1305

rent ...

1305

Youtt, Charles E., pension increased ..
Yuba Forest Reserve, Cal.,
proclamation establishing consolidating, with Tahoe Forest Reserve, Cal. and Nev..
Yuhunhunzewin, Sisseton and Wahpeton Allottee,
may sell part of allotment..

Page. 2609 3184 3232
372

Z.

Zacher, Henry, alias Charles Stein,

pension increased .

2730

Zachery, William H.,

pension increased ..

2330

Zaldo and Co. ,

appropriation for damages...

1293

Zanziban, Zanzibar,

classification and salary of consul ..

100

appropriation for interpreter, etc. , at con-

sulate...

294, 924

treaty with Great Britain surrendering ex-

traterritorial rights in .....

2870

Zentz, Agnes (widow),

pension increased .

1508

Zimmerman, Frederick,

pension increased .

1666

Zimmerman, R. T. Dillard, pension increased....
Zimmerman, William H., pension increased ..
Zittau, Germany, classification and salary of consul .. appropriation for clerk hire..

2354
2653 100
294, 924

Zoological Park D. C., National,

appropriation for expenses; half from Dis-

trict revenues..

704, 1311

deficiency appropriation for connecting

highways ..

641

Zuehlke, Julius,

pension increased ..

1470

Zuni Dam, etc. , N. Mex.,

appropriation for completing.

1041

Zuni Indian School, Ariz. ,

deficiency appropriation for buildings.

etc

38

Zurich, Switzerland, classification and salary of consul . appropriation for clerk hire.....

99 294, 924

Zurrin, Rosa (widow) ,

pension....

1703

O

Stanford Law Library 3 6105 06 049 516 O

ANT

Stanford Law Library 3 105 06 049 516 0

