This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

BLIENCE KANGORIWCLUELTDUGREE
LIBRARY ofthe OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY
LAW LIBRARY

UNITED

STATES

STATUTES AT CONTAINING THE

LARGE

LAWS AND CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS ENACTED DURING THE FIRST SESSION OF THE
EIGHTY- FIRST CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

1949 AND
PROCLAMATIONS, TREATIES , INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES , AND REORGANIZATION PLANS

VOLUME 63 IN THREE PARTS
PART 3 INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS
OTHER THAN TREATIES

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1950

163 4.3
Cat 2 FEB 19 58
PART 1 PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF LAW UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE ADMINISTRATOR OF GENERAL SERVICES BY THE FEDERAL REGISTER DIVISION, NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS SERVICE
PARTS 2 AND 3 PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF LAW UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C.
Price $4.50 (Buckram)

CONTENTS LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES__

Page V

INTERNATIONAL AgreemenTS OTHER THAN TREATIES_

2311

INDEX__

CXCVII

iii

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES CONTAINED IN PART 3 OF THIS VOLUME

Haiti. U. S. air force mission to Haiti ..
Netherlands. Relief supplies and packages for the Netherlands__ Canada. Air search and rescue operations... Canada. Joint Industrial Mobilization Committee ..
Colombia. Army mission to Colombia Colombia. Air force mission to Colombia_
Ceylon. Exchange of official publications .. Greece. Relief supplies and packages for Greece .. Haiti. Naval mission to Haiti..
Japan. Awa Maru claim__. New Zealand. U. S. Educational Foundation in New Zealand .
Multilateral. Removal of restrictions on communications, transportation, and trade in Germany
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. U. S. Educational Commission in the United Kingdom ...
Italy. Financial and economic relations . Austria. Relief supplies and packages for Austria. China. Economic cooperation .. Iran. Military mission to Iran .. Canada. Settlement of certain war accounts and claims .
Austria. Exchange of official publications.. Switzerland. Air transport services___
Ethiopia. Mutual aid settlement... Panama. Air transport services. Canada. Use by civil aircraft of Stephenville and Argentia military air bases in Newfound-
land .. Canada. Air transport services . France. Maritime claims and litigation ... France. Settlement of certain financial claims and accounts_ Peru. Army mission to Peru ......... Multilateral. Constitution of International Rice Commission_ New Zealand. Passport visa fees.Ecuador. Military aviation mission to Ecuador.. Ecuador. Naval mission to Ecuador.. Finland. Air transport services___ Netherlands. U. S. Educational Foundation in the Netherlands .. Mexico. Air force liaison officers ..
Philippines. Hospitals and medical care for Philippine veterans . Italy. Settlement of U. S. obligations to former Italian prisoners of war and related claims ..
Sweden. Quantitative import restrictions and deferment of payments_Dominican Republic. Air transport services__ United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Allocations of ferrous scrap for
export.. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Economic fusion of American and
British zones of occupation in Germany-Peru. Cooperative program of anthropological research and investigation in Peru... Mexico. Cooperative program of anthropological research and investigation in Mexico .--. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Economic fusion of American and
British zones of occupation in Germany . Philippines. Transfer of certain military reservations to the Philippines _ _ Philippines. Occupation of temporary quarters and installations by U. S. armed forces
after Mar. 26, 1949 .
Belgium. U. S. military cemeteries and memorials in Belgium Multilateral. Restitution of monetary gold .. Denmark. Exchange of official publications .. Greece. Training exercises for Marine units of the U. S. Fleet in the Mediterranean_ Iran. U. S. Commission for Cultural Exchange with Iran..
V

8 !!!!

S

Page 2311 2322 2328 2331 2334 2345 2356 2359 2386 2397 2407
2410
2413 2415 2420 2425 2430 2432 2434 2437 2446 2450
2486 2489 2499 2507 2522 2533 2538 2543 2547 2550 2559 2584 2593 2602 2612 2615
2628
2630 2634 2642
2654 2660
2670 2674 2677 2680 2683 2685

vi

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

i  |-

Venezuela. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Venezuela .. China, Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China_. Burma. U. S. Educational Foundation in Burma__
Haiti. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Haiti. Trieste, British/ U. S. Zone. Relief supplies and packages .. Korea. Air transport services_ Burma. Air transport services .. United Kingdom . Leased naval and air bases ..
Honduras. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras .. France. Passport visa fees . Austria. Passport visa fees-
Paraguay. Cooperative education program.. Peru. Cooperative food production program
Mexico. Cooperative weather stations in Mexico_Costa Rica. Cooperative food production program in Costa Rica . Colombia. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia. Norway. U. S. Educational Foundation in Norway .. Brazil. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Brazil .. Venezuela. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Venezuela Bolivia. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Bolivia_-Ecuador. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Ecuador__ Multilateral. Most-favored-nation treatment to western sectors of Berlin ..
Colombia. Exchange of official publications.. Germany, French Zone of Occupation . Relief supplies and packages .. Ireland. Passport visa fees .
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Return to U. S. of icebreakers and frigates received under Lend-Lease Act ..
France and the United Kingdom . Merger of the three Western German zones of occupation, and other matters ..
Belgium. Surplus property settlement ... Guatemala. Cooperative educational program in Guatemala Mexico. U. S.- Mexican Commission on Cultural Cooperation Mexico. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Mexico .. Peru. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Peru .......... Brazil. Vocational industrial education__ . Peru. Cooperative educational program in Peru_Paraguay. Cooperative agricultural program in Paraguay . Panama. Passport visas__. United Kingdom and France. German industrial plants. Greece. Passport visa fees__. Panama. Cooperative educational program in Panama Haiti. Cooperative food production program in Haiti .

Page 2695 2702 2704 2706 2709 2713 2716 2723 2729 2737 2740 2744 2747 2750 2757 2760 2764 2777 2781 2787 2790 2795 2799 2802 2807
2810
2817 2837 2838 2842 2848 2855 2857 2879 2889 2899 2901 2905 2908 2911

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

FIRST SESSION OF THE EIGHTY-FIRST CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday, January 3, 1949, and adjourned sine die on Wednesday, October 19, 1949
HARRY S. TRUMAN, President ; ALBEN W. BARKLEY, Vice President ; KENNETH MCKELLAR, President of the Senate pro tempore ; SAM RAYBURN , Speaker of the House of Representatives.

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting a United States Air Force mission to Haiti . Signed at Washington January 4, 1949 ; entered into force January 4, 1949.

January 4, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1863]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ACCORD ENTRE LE GOU.

GOVERNMENT OF THE VERNEMENT DES ETATS-

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERN-

UNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA

MENT OF THE REPUBLIC REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI

OF HAITI

In conformity with the request Conformément à la demande du of the Government of the Republic Gouvernement de la République of Haiti to the Government of the d'Haïti au Gouvernement des

United States of America , the Etats-Unis d'Amérique, le PrésiPresident of the United States of dent des Etats-Unis d'Amérique

America has authorized the ap- a autorisé la désignation d'officiers pointment of officers and enlisted et d'enrôlés pour constituer une men to constitute an Air Force Mission aérienne près le Gouver-

Mission to the Republic of Haiti nement de la République d'Haïti under the conditions hereinafter selon les conditions stipulées ci-

specified . 81939-52- PT. III- 2

après .

2311

2312

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

TITLE I

TITRE I

Purpose and Duration

But et Durée

ARTICLE 1. The purpose of this ARTICLE 1. Le but de cette

Mission is to cooperate with the Mission est de coopérer avec le Secretary of State for National Secrétaire d'Etat de la Défense Defense and with the personnel Nationale et le personnel des of the Haitian Air Forces with a Forces aériennes haïtiennes en vue

view to contributing to the de- de contribuer au développement

velopment of the air force of the de la force aérienne de la Républi-

Republic of Haiti .

que d'Haïti.

ARTICLE 2. This Mission shall ARTICLE 2. Cette Mission aura

continue for a period of four (4) une durée de quatre (4 ) années à

years from the date of the signing partir de la date de la signature

of this Agreement by the accred- du présent accord par les repré-

ited representatives of the Gov- sentants accrédités des Gouverne-

ernments of the United States of ments des Etats -Unis d'Amérique

America and the Republic of et de la République d'Haïti , à

Haiti , unless previously termi- moins qu'il y soit mis fin plus tôt

nated or extended as hereinafter ou que sa durée soit prolongée

provided.

comme prévu ci-dessous.

(a) Any member of the Mission (a) Tout membre de la Mission may be recalled by the Govern- pourra être rappelé par le Gouverment of the United States of nement des Etats-Unis d'Améri-

America after the expiration of que après qu'il aura accompli

two (2) years of service, in which deux (2 ) années de service , auquel

case another member shall be ap- cas un autre membre sera désigné

pointed to replace him.

pour le remplacer.

(b) The Government of the Re- (b) Le Gouvernement de la

public of Haiti reserves the right République d'Haïti se réserve le to request, at any time, the recall droit de demander, à tout moment,

of a member of the Mission , in le rappel d'un membre de la

which case the Government of the Mission , auquel cas le Gouverne-

United States of America shall ap- ment des Etats-Unis d'Amérique

point another member to replace désignera un remplaçant. him . Extension ofservices. ARTICLE 3. If the Government ARTICLE 3. Si le Gouvernement

of the Republic of Haiti should de la République d'Haïti désire

desire that the services of the que les services de la Mission Mission be extended beyond the soient prolongés au delà du terme

stipulated period , it shall make a stipulé , il devra en faire la propo-

written request to that effect six sition par écrit six (6 ) mois avant

(6) months before the expiration l'expiration du présent accord . of this Agreement.

Termination of Agreement.

ARTICLE 4. This Agreement

ARTICLE 4. Il pourra être mis

may be terminated before the fin au présent accord avant l'ex-

expiration of the period of four piration de la période de quatre

(4) years prescribed in Article 2, (4) ans prévue à l'article 2 , ou or before the expiration of the avant l'expiration de la prolonga-

63 STAT. ] HAITI- U. S. AIR FORCE MISSION-JAN. 4, 1949

2313

extension authorized in Article 3, tion autorisée à l'article 3 , de la

in the following manner :

manière suivante:

(a) By either of the Gov- (a) Par l'un ou l'autre des

ernments, subject to three (3) deux Gouvernements , sous réserve

months' written notice to the d'un préavis de trois ( 3 ) mois à

other Government;

l'autre Gouvernement ;

(b) By the recall of the entire (b) Par le rappel de tout le personnel of the Mission by the personnel de la Mission par le Government of the United States Gouvernement des Etats -Unis

of America in the public interest d'Amérique dans l'intérêt public of the United States of America, des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, sans

without compliance with the for- remplir les formalités prévues au

malities provided for in paragraph paragraphe (a) du présent article.

(a) of this Article . ARTICLE 5. This Agreement is

Cancellation in ARTICLE 5. Le présent accord event of hostilities.

subject to cancellation on the est sujet à annulation sur l'initiainitiative either of the Govern- tive soit du Gouvernement des

ment of the United States of Etats-Unis d'Amérique, soit du

America or of the Government of Gouvernement de la République the Republic of Haiti in the event d'Haïti, au cas où l'un ou l'autre that either of those Governments de ces Gouvernements serait en-

is involved in civil or foreign gagé dans des luttes intestines

hostilities .

ou extérieures.

TITLE II

TITRE II

Composition and Personnel

Composition et Personnel

ARTICLE 6. This Mission shall ARTICLE 6. Cette Mission sera

consist of such personnel of the composée de tel personnel de la United States Air Force as may Force aérienne américaine qui be agreed upon between the Secre- sera convenu entre le Secrétaire tary of State for National De- d'Etat de la Défense Nationale , fense, through the authorized par l'intermédiaire du représentant representative of the Government autorisé du Gouvernement de la of the Republic of Haiti in Wash- République d'Haïti à Washington, ington, and the Department of et le Département de la Force the Air Force of the United States aérienne américaine . of America.

TITLE III

TITRE III

Duties, Rank, and Precedence

Fonctions, Grade et Préséance

ARTICLE 7. The personnel of ARTICLE 7. Le personnel de la

the Mission shall perform such Mission remplira telles fonctions

duties as may be agreed upon qui pourront être convenues entre between the Secretary of State for le Secrétaire d'Etat de la Défense National Defense and the Chief of Nationale et le Chef de la Mission .

the Mission. ARTICLE 8. The members of the

ARTICLE 8. Les membres de la

Mission shall , in the performance Mission , dans l'exercice de leurs

2314

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

of their duties , be responsible, fonctions, seront responsables vis-

through the Chief of the Mission, à-vis du Secrétaire d'Etat de la

to the Secretary of State for Défense Nationale, par l'inter-

National Defense .

médiaire du Chef de la Mission.

ARTICLE 9. Each member of the ARTICLE 9. Chaque membre de

Mission shall serve on it with the la Mission y servira avec le

rank he holds in the United grade qu'il a dans la Force aérienne

States Air Force , and wear the américaine. Il portera l'uniforme

uniform thereof, but shall have de la Force aérienne américaine,

precedence over all Haitian of- mais aura la préséance sur tous les

ficers of the same rank.

officiers haïtiens de même grade.

legBeesnefits and privi- . ARTICLE 10. Each member of ARTICLE 10. Chaque membre de the Mission shall be entitled to the la Mission aura droit aux mêmes

same benefits and privileges as the avantages et privilèges que les

Regulations of the Army Air Règlements du Corps d'Aviation

Corps of Haiti provide for officers de l'Armée d'Haïti prévoient pour and enlisted men of corresponding les officiers et enrôlés du même

Post, p. 2320.

rank, with the exception of the grade, exception faite des pré-

provisions of Article 29.

visions de l'article 29 .

Disciplinary regulations.

ARTICLE 11. The personnel of ARTICLE 11. Le personnel de la

the Mission shall be governed by Mission sera régi par les règle-

the disciplinary regulations of the ments disciplinaires de la Force

United States Air Force .

aérienne américaine.

Tax exemption.

TITLE IV

TITRE IV

Compensation and Allowances

Indemnité et Allocations

ARTICLE 12. Members of the ARTICLE 12. Les membres de la Mission shall receive from the Mission recevront du Gouverne-

Government of the Republic of ment de la République d'Haïti Haiti such net annual compensa- telle indemnité annuelle nette qui tion as may be agreed upon be- pourra être convenue entre les tween the Governments of the Gouvernements des Etats-Unis United States of America and the d'Amérique et de la République

Republic of Haiti for each mem- d'Haïti pour chaque membre. Cetber . This compensation shall be te indemnité sera versée en

paid in twelve ( 12) equal monthly douze ( 12 ) mensualités égales ,

instalments, each due and payable payables chacune le dernier jour

on the last day of each month. de chaque mois . Cette indemnité

Such compensation shall not be ne sera sujette à aucune taxe

subject to any tax now in effect or actuellement en vigueur ou pou-

which may hereafter be imposed vant être imposée à l'avenir par

by the Government of the Repub- le Gouvernement de la République

lic of Haiti or any administrative d'Haïti ou par aucune subdivision

or political subdivision of the said administrative ou politique dudit

Government. If, however, now Gouvernement .

Si cependant,

or hereafter, while this Agreement actuellement ou à l'avenir, pen-

is in effect, there should be any dant la durée du présent accord, il

taxes that might affect that com- existait certaines taxes qui pus-

63 STAT. ] HAITI- U. S. AIR FORCE MISSION- JAN. 4, 1949

2315

pensation, such taxes shall be sent affecter cette indemnité, ces borne by the Government of the taxes seraient supportées par le

Republic of Haiti, in order that Gouvernement de la République

the compensation shall be net.

agreed

upon d'Haïti , de façon que l'indemnité convenue soit versée intégralement.

ARTICLE 13. The compensation ARTICLE 13. L'indemnité con-

agreed upon as indicated in the venue de la manière indiquée à

preceding Article shall commence l'article précédent commencera à upon the date of arrival in the courir à partir de la date d'ar-

Republic of Haiti of each member rivée dans la Republique d'Haïti

of the Mission and , except as de chaque membre de la Mission

otherwise expressly provided in et, sauf le cas où d'autres stipula-

this Agreement, shall continue to tions seraient expressément pré-

be paid until termination of duty vues par le présent accord, elle

with the Mission, including the continuera à être versée jusqu'à time for the return trip to the la fin des services du bénéficiaire

United States and any period of auprès de la Mission, en y com-

accumulated leave which may be prenant le temps du voyage de

due.

retour aux Etats-Unis et toute

période de congé accumulé qui pourrait lui être due.

ARTICLE 14. The compensation ARTICLE 14. L'indemnité due

due for the period of the return pour la période du voyage de trip and accumulated leave shall retour et le congé accumulé sera be paid to a detached member of payée à un membre détaché de la

the Mission before his departure Mission avant son départ de la from the Republic of Haiti, and République d'Haïti , et ce paiement such payment shall be computed sera calculé pour un voyage par la for travel by the shortest route to plus courte voie au port d'entrée the port of entry in the United des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, sans States of America, regardless of considération de la route et du

the route and method of travel mode de voyage utilisés par le

used by the member of the membre de la Mission.

Mission .

ARTICLE 15. The Government

ARTICLE 15. Le Gouvernement Transportation of personal automobile.

of the Republic of Haiti shall as- de la République d'Haïti assumera

sume the expenses for the transpor- les dépenses nécessitées par le tation of the personal automobile transport de l'automobile personof each of the members of the nelle de chacun des membres de

Mission from the port of embark- la Mission, du port d'embarque-

ation in the United States of ment aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique

America to his post in the Repub- à son poste dans la République

lic of Haiti , as well as the expenses d'Haïti , de même que les dépenses

involved in the transportation of afférentes au transport de ladite the aforementioned automobile automobile de la République

from the Republic of Haiti to the d'Haïti au port d'entrée des Etats-

port of entry in the United States Unis d'Amérique . Le paiement of America. The payment of the des frais de transport de l'automo-

2316

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

costs of transporting an automo- bile, dans le cas du personnel qui bile, in case personnel may be serait affecté à la Mission en service attached to the Mission on tempo- temporaire, ne sera pas requis aux

rary service , shall not be required termes du présent accord , mais

by this Agreement, but shall be sera déterminé par des négocia-

determined by negotiations be- tions entre le Département de la tween the Department of the Air Force aérienne américaine et le

Force of the United States of représentant autorisé du Gouverne-

America and the authorized repre- ment de la République d'Haïti à sentative of the Government of Washington, à l'époque à laquelle

the Republic of Haiti in Washing- le détachement de personnel pour ton at such time as such assign- ce service temporaire aura été

ments of personnel for such tem- convenu . porary service have been agreed

Duty-free entry.

upon. ARTICLE 16. The Government

ARTICLE 16. Le Gouvernement

of the Republic of Haiti shall, de la République d'Haïti devra upon the request of the Chief of accorder, sur la demande du Chef

the Mission, approved by the de la Mission approuvée par l'AmAmbassador of the United States bassadeur des Etats-Unis d'Améri-

of America or by the Chargé que ou par le Chargé d'Affaires

d'Affaires ad interim , grant entry, par intérim, la franchise douanière

duty-free, for articles imported pour les articles importés par les

by members of the Mission for membres de la Mission pour usage

their personal use and that of the personnel et celui des membres de

members of their families, not to leurs familles, jusqu'à concur-

exceed 25 percent of the total of rence de 25 % du total de leur

their annual salary . The Chief of solde annuelle. Le Chef de la

the Mission shall be responsible Mission est responsable de l'ob-

Termination of serv-
ice prior to specified time.

for the strict observance of the provisions of this Article .
ARTICLE 17. If, for any reason
whatsoever, the Government of

servance stricte des prescriptions du présent article .
ARTICLE 17. Si le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Améri-

the United States of America que, pour une raison quelconque , should terminate the service of met fin au service d'un ou de pluone or more members of the sieurs membres de la Mission

Mission before completion of the avant l'accomplissement des deux two years of service provided for, ans de service prévus , le Gouverthe Government of the Republic nement de la République d'Haïti of Haiti shall not be obligated to ne sera tenu de payer aucuns frais, pay any expenses, pay, and allow- solde et allocations pour la période ances for the period that such passée en Haïti par ce ou ces member or members remained in membres après qu'il aura été mis Haiti after termination of service . fin à son ou à leur service.

If, for any reason whatsoever, Si le Gouvernement de la Ré-

the Government of the Republic publique d'Haïti , pour une raison of Haiti should terminate the quelconque, met fin au service service of one or more members of d'un ou de plusieurs membres de the Mission, it shall be obligated la Mission , il devra payer tous les

63 STAT.] HAITI- U. S. AIR FORCE MISSION- JAN. 4, 1949

2317

to pay all expenses of repatriation, frais de rapatriement, ainsi que la

as well as all pay, allowances, and solde, les allocations et les frais

expenses which would have been qui auraient été payés à l'expira-

paid, if such member or members tion de deux ans de service .

had reached the expiration of a

two-year period of service . ARTICLE 18. Compensation for ARTICLE 18. L'indemnité pour
transportation and traveling ex- les frais de transport et de voyage

Compensation for transportation and traveling expenses in
Haiti.

penses in the Republic of Haiti on dans la République d'Haïti , en official business of the Govern- service officiel du Gouvernement

ment of the Republic of Haiti shall de la République d'Haïti , sera

be provided by the Government of fournie par le Gouvernement de la

the Republic of Haiti in accord- République d'Haïti conformément

ance with customary official rates au taux officiel en usage dans

in the Army of Haiti.

l'Armée d'Haïti .

ARTICLE 19. The Government ARTICLE 19. Le Gouvernement

Provision mobile, etc.

of auto-

of the Republic of Haiti shall pro- de la République d'Haïti fournira vide the Chief of the Mission au Chef de la Mission une autowith a suitable automobile, with mobile, avec chauffeur, pour son chauffeur, for his use on official usage en service officiel. Des

business . Vehicles , with chauffeur, véhicules , avec chauffeur, et , le and, when necessary, a suitably cas échéant, un avion convenable-

Airplane.

equipped airplane shall, upon re- ment équipé, devront, sur demanquest, be placed at the disposal of de, être mis par le Gouvernement the members of the Mission by de la République d'Haïti , selon ses the Government of the Republic possibilités , à la disposition des of Haiti, in so far as it is possible membres de la Mission pour for the latter to do so , for the l'accomplissement des services officarrying on of the official business ciels de la Mission. of the Mission.
ARTICLE 20. The Government ARTICLE 20. Le Gouvernement

Office space, etc.

of the Republic of Haiti shall pro- de la République d'Haïti devra vide suitable office space for the affecter un local approprié à l'usage use of the members of the Mission des membres de la Mission et leur

and shall grant them all facilities accorder toutes les facilités de

for their work, to the extent of its travail dans la mesure de ses

means .

moyens .

ARTICLE 21. If any member of ARTICLE 21. Au cas où un mem-

the Mission, or a member of his bre de la Mission, ou un membre

Transportation of remains in case of death.

family, should die in the Republic de sa famille, viendrait à mourir

of Haiti , the Government of the dans la République d'Haïti , le

Republic of Haiti shall have the Gouvernement de la République

body transported to such place in d'Haïti fera transporter la dé-

the United States of America as pouille mortelle en tel lieu des

the members of his family may Etats-Unis qu'auront désigné les

decide, but the cost to the Govern- membres de la famille du défunt,

ment of the Republic of Haiti mais les frais que doit supporter

shall not exceed the cost of trans- le Gouvernement de la République

2318

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

porting the remains from the place d'Haïti ne devront pas excéder le

of decease to New York City.

prix du transport de la dépouille

mortelle du lieu du décès à la ville

de New-York.

Should the deceased be a mem- Si le défunt est un membre de la

ber of the Mission, his services Mission, ses services dans ladite with the Mission shall be consid- Mission seront censés avoir pris ered to have terminated fifteen fin quinze (15) jours après sa mort.

(15 ) days after his death. The Le voyage de retour à New-York
return trip to New York City of de la famille du défunt et le trans-
the family of the deceased and the port de ses meubles , effets et auto-
transportation of their household mobile seront soumis aux stipula-
effects , baggage, and automobile tions de l'article 15. Toute inshall be provided in accordance demnité due au membre décédé , Compensation due deceased member. with the terms of Article 15. All y compris son salaire pour les

compensation due the deceased quinze ( 15 ) jours suivant son member, including salary for the décès, et le montant des dépenses fifteen (15) days subsequent to his et frais de déplacement dus à ce death, and reimbursement for ex- membre pour voyage effectué en penses and transportation due service officiel pour le Gouverne-

such member for travel performed ment de la République d'Haïti , on official business of the Govern- sera remboursé à la veuve du

ment of the Republic of Haiti, défunt, ou à toute autre personne

shall be paid to the widow of the qui aurait été désignée par écrit deceased, or to any other person par le défunt pendant son service who may have been designated in aux termes et conditions du présent writing by the deceased while accord ; mais sa veuve ou toute serving under the terms and pro- autre personne n'aura droit à visions of this Agreement ; but his aucune indemnité pour le congé widow or any other person shall accumulé dont n'avait pas bénot be entitled to any compensa- néficié le défunt. Toutes les intion for accrued leave due and not demnités dues à la veuve ou à

taken by the deceased . All com- toute autre personne désignée par pensations due the widow, or any le défunt, aux termes du présent other person designated by the article, seront payées dans les

deceased, under the provisions of quinze ( 15 ) jours qui suivront le this Article, shall be paid within décès dudit membre.

fifteen ( 15) days of the decease of the said member.

TITLE V

TITRE V

Requisites and Conditions

Casuels et Conditions

Services of Missions of other foreign gov-

ARTICLE 22. So long as this

ARTICLE 22. Pendant la durée

ernments, restriction . Agreement, or any extension du présent accord , ou de toute

thereof, is in effect, the Govern- prorogation y relative , le Gouverment of the Republic of Haiti nement de la République d'Haïti agrees not to engage the services s'engage à n'employer les services

of a Mission of any other foreign du personnel d'aucun autre GouverGovernment for duties of any na- nement étranger pour des actiture connected with the military vités intéressant les forces aériennes

63 STAT. ] HAITI- U. S. AIR FORCE MISSION-JAN. 4, 1949

2319

air forces of the Republic of Haiti, militaires de la République d'Haïti ,

except by mutual agreement be- sauf par entente mutuelle entre

tween the Governments of the les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis

United States of America and the d'Amérique et de la République

Republic of Haiti.

d'Haïti .

ARTICLE 23. Every member of ARTICLE 23. Chaque membre the Mission shall agree not to de la Mission s'engagera à ne

divulge or in any way disclose to divulguer ou révéler de quelque any government or individual any façon que ce soit à aucun gousecret or confidential matter of vernement ou particulier aucun sewhich he may become cognizant cret ou aucune affaire confidenin his capacity as a member of tielle dont il pourrait avoir conthe Mission. This requirement naissance en sa qualité de membre shall continue in force after the de la Mission. Cette interdiction

termination of his services with continuera à être valable après la

the Mission and after the expira- fin de ses services auprès de la

tion or cancellation of this Agree- Mission et après l'expiration ou

ment or any extension thereof.

l'annulation du présent accord ou

de toute prorogation qui pourrait être effectuée .

ARTICLE 24. In the terms of ARTICLE 24. Aux termes du

this Agreement, the word " family" présent accord, le mot "famille "

is understood, for each member of s'entend , pour chaque membre de

the Mission, to mean his wife and la Mission, comme signifiant son

their minor children .

épouse et leurs enfants mineurs .

ARTICLE 25. Each member of ARTICLE 25. Chaque membre

the Mission shall be entitled to de la Mission aura droit à un

one month's annual leave with pay, mois de congé annuel avec solde,

or to a proportional part of such ou à une partie proportionnelle de

leave with pay for any fractional ce congé pour toute fraction d'une

part of a year. The unused por- année . La portion non utilisée de

tion of such leave shall be cumula- ce congé sera accumulée d'année

tive from year to year during his en année pendant la durée de son

service as a member of the Mis- service comme membre de la Mis-

sion .

sion.

ARTICLE 26. The leave referred ARTICLE 26. Le congé visé à

to in the preceding Article may be l'article précédent pourra être uti-

spent in the Republic of Haiti, in lisé dans la République d'Haïti, the United States of America, or aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique ou en

in other countries, but the ex- d'autres pays, mais les frais de penses of travel and transporta- voyage et de transport seront suption shall be borne by the member portés par le membre de la Misof the Mission taking such leave. sion bénéficiant de ce congé. Le Travel time shall count as leave temps du voyage comptera comme and shall not be in addition to the congé et ne sera pas ajouté au

time authorized in the preceding congé autorisé à l'article précédent . Article .

ARTICLE 27. The Government ARTICLE 27. Le Gouvernement

of the Republic of Haiti agrees to de la République d'Haïti consent

Secrecy requirement.
"Family". Annual leave.

2320

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 Stat.

grant the leave specified in Article à accorder le congé spécifié à

25, upon written request, approved l'article 25, sur demande écrite

by the Chief of the Mission, taking approuvée par le Chef de la Mis-

into consideration the conveni- sion, eu égard aux exigences du

ences of the service .

service .

Termination ofserv-
ices of replaced members.

ARTICLE 28. Any member of the

ARTICLE 28. Tout membre de

Mission who may be relieved shall la Mission qui serait relevé con-

continue service with the Mission tinuera ses services auprès de la

until the arrival of his replace- Mission jusqu'à l'arrivée de son

ment, except when otherwise remplaçant, sauf entente contrai-

agreed upon between the two re entre les deux Gouvernements .

Governments .

Medical attention. ARTICLE 29. The Government ARTICLE 29. Le Gouvernement

of the Republic of Haiti under- de la République d'Haïti s'engage takes to furnish appropriate medi- à fournir les soins médicaux apcal attention to the members of propriés aux membres de la Misthe Mission and to their families. sion et à leurs familles . Au cas If a member of the Mission should où un membre de la Mission become ill or be the victim of an tomberait malade ou serait vic-

accident, he shall , should he so time d'un accident, il sera, s'il desire, be cared for in the hospitals le désire , soigné dans les Hôpiof the Government of the Repub- taux du Gouvernement de la lic of Haiti at the expense of that République d'Haïti , aux frais de Government. There shall further- ce Gouvernement. Il sera prévu , more be provided annually a en outre, chaque année, des crédits credit not to exceed 20 percent ne dépassant pas 20 % du montant of the total amount of the annual total des appointements annuels salaries of the members of the des membres de la Mission en vue

Mission for medical attention that de pourvoir aux soins médicaux may be furnished them and the qui leur seraient fournis, ainsi members of their families by spe- qu'aux membres de leurs familles , cialists or in institutions other par des spécialistes ou dans des than the hospitals of the Gov- établissements autres que les Hôpiernment of the Republic of Haiti . taux du Gouvernement de la Expenditures of funds of this République d'Haïti . Les sorties. nature shall be made by the de fonds de cette nature seront Government of the Republic of faites par le Gouvernement de la Haiti at the request of the Chief République d'Haïti sur la deof the Mission. The Government mande du Chef de la Mission.

of the Republic of Haiti shall not Le Gouvernement de la Répube responsible for the payment of blique d' Haïti ne sera pas responexpenses for medical attention re- sable du paiement des frais pour ceived outside the territory of the soins médicaux reçus en dehors Republic of Haiti . Neither shall du territoire de la République it be responsible for the payment d'Haïti. Il ne sera en outre

of any compensation in the case responsable du paiement d'aucune of the permanent physical dis- indemnité dans le cas d'incapacité ability of a member of the Mission . physique permanente d'un mem-
bre de la Mission .

63 STAT. ] HAITI- U. S. AIR FORCE MISSION-JAN. 4, 1949

2321

ARTICLE 30. Any member of the

ARTICLE

30.

Tout

membre

de

Replacement in case of disability.

Mission no longer able properly la Mission qui ne pourrait plus

to perform his duties by reason remplir convenablement ses fonc-

of prolonged physical disability tions par suite d'une incapacité

shall be replaced .

physique prolongée sera remplacé.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the EN FOI DE QUOI, les soussi-

undersigned, Robert A. Lovett, gnés, Robert A. Lovett, Secrétaire Acting Secretary of State of the d'Etat par intérim des Etats-Unis United States of America, and d'Amérique , et Joseph D. Charles, Joseph D. Charles , Ambassador Ambassadeur de la République of the Republic of Haiti in Wash- d'Haïti à Washington, dûment ington, duly authorized thereto , autorisés aux fins des présentes , have signed this Agreement , in ont signé le présent accord , en duplicate , in the English and double exemplaire , en langues French languages , at Washington , anglaise et française , à Washingthis fourth day of January, one ton , ce quatrième jour de janvier thousand nine hundred forty-nine. mil neuf cent quarante-neuf.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE :
ROBERT A LOVETT

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI : POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI :
JOSEPH, D. CHARLES

2322

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

January 17, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1881]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Netherlands respecting duty -free entry and payment of transportation charges on relief supplies and packages for the Netherlands . Effected by exchange of notes signed at The Hague January 17, 1949; entered into force January 17, 1949.

The American Embassy to the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs

No. 693

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compli-

ments to the Royal Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and ,

under reference to Article VI Paragraph 2 and Article IV Paragraph

5 of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States pp6.224S9t4,a2t4.90,. Pt . 2, of America and the Netherlands, has the honor to propose an agree-

ment between the two Governments in the following terms :

Duty-free treatment.

I. The Government of the Netherlands shall accord duty-free treatment on entry into the Netherlands of :

(a) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies qualified under the Economic Cooperation Administration (hereafter referred to as ECA) regulations and consigned to charitable organizations including Netherlands branches of these agencies which have been or hereafter shall be approved by the Government of the Netherlands.

(b) Relief packages originating in the United States sent by parcel post or commercial channels, addressed to an individual residing in the Netherlands, whether packed privately or by order placed with a commercial firm .

Rights of inspection and customs formali-
ties.

(c) Standard packs put up by United States voluntary nonprofit relief agencies or their approved agents, qualified under ECA regulations, to the order of individuals in the United States and sent for delivery to individuals residing in the Netherlands.
II. The Netherlands Government will retain all rights of inspection and customs formalities in connection with such packages and shipments, including the levy of duty on packages and shipments which do not comply with ECA regulations and to provisions of this Agreement.

III. For the purposes of this Agreement :

(a ) "relief goods " shall not include tobacco, cigars , cigarettes or alcoholic liquors or goods other than food - stuffs , clothing, shoes, household supplies and utensils , bedding,

63 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS-RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-JAN. 17, 1949 2323

medical and health supplies and articles which qualify under ECA regulations and are approved by the Government of the Netherlands ;

(b) "relief packages" shall not include goods other than food -stuffs, secondhand clothing, secondhand shoes , medical and health supplies, and shall not exceed twenty kilograms gross weight. The combined retail value in the United States of all streptomycin, quinine sulfate and quinine hydrochloride included in each relief package must not exceed $5 ;

( c ) "standard packs " shall contain only such articles which qualify under ECA regulations and are approved by the Government of the Netherlands ;

( d) weight, size and other limitations not specified herein shall comply with ECA regulations ;

(e) " relief packages" and "standard packs " shall all be marked "U.S.A. gift parcels".

IV. Transportation charges ( as defined in Paragraph 5 of Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement) in the Netherlands on " relief goods", "relief packages" , and "standard packs", which comply with the provisions of Paragraphs I

Defrayal of transportation charges.
62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 2490.

and III above, shall be defrayed as follows :

Reimbursement (a) The amount of the terminal charges for shipments which from special account.
are sent by United States parcel post to addressees in

the Netherlands, shall be computed by the Netherlands

postal service in the manner now or hereafter provided by the applicable Agreements. Such charges shall be

reimbursed to the Netherlands postal service out of the

Special Account provided for in Article IV of the Eco-

nomic Cooperation Agreement (hereafter referred to as

62 Stat . , Pt. 2, p. 2488.

the Special Account ) and no claim for such charges shall

be made against the United States.

(b) With respect to shipments which are originally des-

patched from the United States by any regular established commercial channels and forwarded in the Neth-

erlands by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee by Netherlands carrier, or Netherlands parcel post service, the Netherlands shall reimburse such agent or Netherlands carrier, or Netherlands parcel post service, as the case may be, out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

(c) With respect to any charges incidental to transportation, including warehouse, storage and dock charges, which may be incurred by an agent of a shipper under sub-paragraph ( b ) of this Paragraph, other than parcel post charges and carrier charges, such approved agent shall be reimbursed by the Government of the Nether-

2324

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Monthly state ments.
Entry into force of pars. IV and V.

lands out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.
V. The Government of the Netherlands shall make payments out of the Special Account for the purposes mentioned in Paragraph IV above, and shall submit to the ECA Mission in the Netherlands with a copy to the Controller, ECA Washington, monthly statements of the amount so expended in forms satisfactory to the Government of the Netherlands and the said Mission, provided that each such statement shall at least show total weight carried and charges therefor and adjustments shall be made to the Special Account if shown to be required by ECA audit.
VI. So far as practicable, effect shall be given to Paragraphs IV and V as though they had come into force on April 3 , 1948.
VII.

Entry into force; duration.
62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 2477.
Termination.

(a) The present Agreement shall come into force immediately. Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph ( b) of this Paragraph and to such modifications as may be agreed upon by the competent authorities of the Government of the United States and the Netherlands, it shall remain in force for the same period as the Economic Cooperation Agreement.
(b) The present Agreement may be terminated by six months' notice given in writing by either party to the other at any time.

If the above proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Netherlands, the Embassy of the United States of America has the honor further to propose that this Note and the reply by the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs to that effect shall constitute an Agreement on the above terms between the two Governments.

THE HAGUE

January 17, 1949

HERMAN B. BARUCH

The Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and has the honour to acknowledge the receipt of the Embassy's Note of to-day's date, reading as follows :
"The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Royal Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs , and , under reference to Article VI Paragraph 2 and Article IV Paragraph 5 of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States

63 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS-RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-JAN. 17, 1949 2325
of America and the Netherlands, has the honor to propose an agree- pp6.2249S4t,a2t49. 0,. Pt . 2 , ment between the two Governments in the following terms :
I. The Government of the Netherlands shall accord duty-free treatment on entry into the Netherlands of :
(a) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by United States voluntary non- profit relief agencies qualified under the Economic Cooperation Administration (hereafter referred to as ECA) regulations and consigned to charitable organizations including Netherlands branches of these agencies which have been or hereafter shall be approved by the Government of the Netherlands.
(b) Relief packages originating in the United States sent by parcel post or commercial channels, addressed to an individual residing in the Netherlands, whether packed privately or by order placed with a commercial firm.
(c) Standard packs put up by United States voluntary nonprofit relief agencies or their approved agents , qualified under ECA regulations, to the order of individuals in the United States and sent for delivery to individuals residing in the Netherlands.
II. The Netherlands Government will retain all rights of inspection and customs formalities in connection with such packages and shipments , including the levy of duty on packages and shipments which do not comply with ECA regulations and to provisions of this Agreement.
III. For the purposes of this Agreement : (a ) "relief goods" shall not include tobacco, cigars, cigarettes or alcoholic liquors or goods other than food - stuffs, clothing, shoes, household supplies and utensils, bedding, medical and health supplies and articles which qualify under ECA regulations and are approved by the Government of the Netherlands ;
(b) "relief packages" shall not include goods other than foodstuffs, secondhand clothing, secondhand shoes, medical and health supplies, and shall not exceed twenty kilograms gross weight. The combined retail value in the United States of all streptomycin, quinine sulfate and quinine hydrochloride included in each relief package must not exceed $5 ;
(c) "standard packs" shall contain only such articles which qualify under ECA regulations and are approved by the Government of the Netherlands ;
(d) weight , size and other limitations not specified herein shall comply with ECA regulations ;
(e) "relief packages " and "standard packs " shall all be marked "U.S.A. gift parcels".

2326 62 Stat . , Pt . 2,
p. 2490.
62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 2488.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
IV. Transportation charges ( as defined in Paragraph 5 of Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement ) in the Netherlands on "relief goods", "relief packages", and "standard packs ", which comply with the provisions of Paragraphs I and III above, shall be defrayed as follows :
(a) The amount of the terminal charges for shipments which are sent by United States parcel post to addressees in the Netherlands, shall be computed by the Netherlands postal service in the manner now or hereafter provided by the applicable Agreements. Such charges shall be reimbursed to the Netherlands postal service out of the Special Account provided for in Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement (hereafter referred to as the Special Account ) and no claim for such charges shall be made against the United States.
(b) With respect to shipments which are originally despatched from the United States by any regular established commercial channels and forwarded in the Netherlands by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee by Netherlands carrier, or Netherlands parcel post service , the Netherlands shall reimburse such agent or Netherlands carrier , or Netherlands parcel post service, as the case may be, out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.
(c) With respect to any charges incidental to transportation, including warehouse, storage and dock charges, which may be incurred by an agent of a shipper under sub-paragraph (b) of this Paragraph, other than parcel post charges and carrier charges, such approved agent shall be reimbursed by the Government of the Netherlands out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.
V. The Government of the Netherlands shall make payments out of the Special Account for the purposes mentioned in Paragraph IV above, and shall submit to the ECA Mission in the Netherlands with a copy to the Controller , ECA Washington, monthly statements of the amount so expended in forms satisfactory to the Government of the Netherlands and the said Mission, provided that each such statement shall at least show total weight carried and charges therefor and adjustments shall be made to the Special Account if shown to be required by ECA audit.
VI. So far as practicable, effect shall be given to Paragraphs IV and V as though they had come into force on April 3 , 1948 .
VII. ( a ) The present Agreement shall come into force immediately. Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this Paragraph and to such modifications as may be agreed

63 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-JAN. 17, 1949
upon by the competent authorities of the Government of the United States and the Netherlands, it shall remain in force for the same period as the Economic Cooperation Agreement.
(b) The present Agreement may be terminated by six months' notice given in writing by either party to the other at any time.
If the above proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Netherlands, the Embassy of the United States of America has the honor further to propose that this Note and the reply by the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs to that effect shall constitute an Agreement on the above terms between the two Governments."
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honour to inform the Embassy of the United States of America that the Netherlands Government agrees with the contents of the above Note.
The Hague, 17th January, 1949.

2327

MINISTRY

AFFALDS

To the EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

2328

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

January 24, 31, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1882

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting air search and rescue operations . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington January 24 and 31 , 1949 ; entered into force January 31 , 1949.

The Canadian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

No. 35

CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA
WASHINGTON, January 24, 1949.

SIR, I have the honour to refer to the discussions that have taken place
in the Permanent Joint Board on Defence, with regard to the necessity of ensuring adequate cooperation between our two Governments in Air Search and Rescue operations along our common boundary.
2. As a result of the conclusions reached in the course of these discus-
sions, my Government wishes to propose : (1 ) That, in future, public aircraft of Canada or the United States which are engaged in emergency Air Search and Rescue operations , be permitted to enter or leave either country without being subject to the immigration or customs formalities normally required by the Government of either country, provided that the Rescue Coordination Centre involved in the search or rescue, either directly or through some person delegated by it, assumes the responsibility of informing by telephone or telegraph :

(a ) The immigration office at the port of entry nearest to the territory over which any search or rescue is to be instituted, of the intended operation, furnishing it with details concerning the purpose of the flight ; the identification markings of each aircraft ; and the number of persons comprising the crew of each aircraft.

(b) The customs office nearest to the territory over which any search or rescue is to be instituted , of the intended operation , giving details concerning the territory to be searched ; the possible duration of the stay of the aircraft ; the identification markings of each aircraft ; and the number of persons comprising the crew of each aircraft.
( 2 ) That , should a landing be made by public aircraft of one country in the territory of the other in the course of such emergency search or rescue, an oral or telephonic report shall be made to the nearest Collector of Customs so that he may assist, in any
way possible, in connection with any special importation required in the search or rescue operations. This report may be made by the Rescue Coordination Centre organizing the opera-

63 STAT. ] CANADA- AIR SEARCH AND RESCUE-JAN. 24, 31 , 1949
tion, or by the pilots concerned , whichever would best serve the interests of the rescue operations involved. (3) That, should any merchandise carried , in the aircraft in question, from one country to the other in the course of such search or rescue, remain in the latter country on conclusion of an operation, such merchandise will be subject to the customs treatment normally accorded in that country to imported merchandise.
3. The term "public aircraft", as used in this Note , refers to aircraft of the Canadian and United States Governments and such other aircraft of United States and Canadian registry as may be brought under the control of a Rescue Coordination Centre in either country for the purposes of an emergency search or rescue operation.
4. If your Government concurs in the foregoing proposals, it is the desire of my Government that this Note, together with your reply agreeing thereto, constitute an agreement between our two Governments that is to be effective from the date of your reply and to remain in force until sixty days after either party to the agreement has signified to the other a desire to terminate it.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. HH WRONG
The Honourable DEAN ACHESON,
Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

2329

The Under Secretary of State to the Canadian Ambassador

EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Jan 31 1949

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 35 of January 24, 1949 , referring to the discussions that have taken place in the Permanent Joint Board on Defense with regard to the necessity
of ensuring adequate cooperation between our two Governments in Air Search and Rescue operations along our common boundary, and to this end proposing :
2. As a result of the conclusions reached in the course of these
discussions, my Government wishes to propose : Freedom from cer-
(1 ) That, in future, public aircraft of Canada or the United tain formalities, conStates which are engaged in emergency Air Search and Res- dition. cue operations, be permitted to enter or leave either country without being subject to the immigration or customs formalities normally required by the Government of either country, provided that the Rescue Coordination Centre involved in the search or rescue, either directly or through some person delegated by it, assumes the responsibility of informing by telephone or telegraph :

2330

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

(a) The immigration office at the port of entry nearest to the territory over which any search or rescue is to be instituted, of the intended operation , furnishing it with details concerning the purpose of the flight ; the identification markings of each aircraft ; and the number of persons comprising the crew of each aircraft.

Report to Collector of Customs.
Merchandise. "Public aircraft."

(b) The customs office nearest to the territory over which any search or rescue is to be instituted, of the intended operation, giving details concerning the territory to be searched ; the possible duration of the stay of the aircraft ; the identification markings of each aircraft ; and the number of persons comprising the crew of each aircraft.
(2 ) That, should a landing be made by public aircraft of one country in the territory of the other in the course of such emergency search or rescue, an oral or telephonic report shall be made to the nearest Collector of Customs so that he may assist, in any way possible, in connection with any special importation required in the search or rescue operations. This report may be made by the Rescue Coordination Centre organizing the operation, or by the pilots concerned , whichever would best serve the interests of the rescue operations involved .
(3 ) That, should any merchandise carried , in the aircraft in question, from one country to the other in the course of such search or rescue, remain in the latter country on conclusion of an operation, such merchandise will be subject to the customs treatment normally accorded in that country to imported merchandise.
3. The term "public aircraft", as used in this Note, refers to aircraft of the Canadian and United States Governments and such other aircraft of United States and Canadian registry as may be brought under the control of a Rescue Coordination Centre in either country for the purposes of an emergency search or rescue operation.

In reply I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States concurs in the foregoing proposals

and agrees that Your Excellency's note and this reply shall be re-

garded as constituting an agreement between our two Governments

Effective date; dura-

tion.

that is to be effective from this date and shall remain in force until

sixty days after either party to the agreement has signified to the other a desire to terminate it.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JAMES E. WEBB His Excellency
H. H. WRONG,

Ambassador of Canada.

63 STAT. ] CANADA- JOINT INDUSTRIAL MOBILIZATION-APR. 12, 1949

2331

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting a Joint Industrial Mobilization Committee. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa April 12, 1949; entered into force April 12 , 1949.

April 12, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1889]

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY

No. 93 EXCELLENCY :

Ottawa, Canada , April 12 , 1949.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the common

interests of Canada and the United States in Defence , their proximity

and the complementary characteristics of their resources clearly indicate the advantages of coordinating their plans for industrial

mobilization, in order that the most effective use may be made of the productive facilities of the two countries .
The functions of the Department of Trade and Commerce and the Industrial Defence Board in Canada and those of the National Se-

curity Resources Board and the Munitions Board in the United States suggest that, for the present, it would be appropriate to use these Agencies to assist the two Governments in coordinating their Industrial Mobilization Plans.

Therefore, my Government wishes to propose that the two Governments agree:

(a) That a Joint Industrial Mobilization Committee be now constituted consisting, on the United States side, of the Chairman of the National Security Resources Board and the Chairman of the Munitions Board and , on the Canadian side, of the Chairman of the Industrial Defence Board and a Senior Official of the Department of Trade and Commerce:

(b) That the Joint Committee:

(i) Exchange information with a view to the coordination of the plans of the United States and Canada for Industrial Mobilization ;
(ii) Consider what recommendations in the field of Industrial Mobilization planning, in areas of common concern, should be made to each Government ;
(iii) Be empowered to organize Joint Sub-Committees from time to time to facilitate the discharge of its functions ;
(iv) Be responsible for cooperation with the Permanent Joint Board on Defence on matters of Industrial Mobilization.

If your Government is agreeable to the above Proposals , it is understood that this Note, together with your Note in reply agreeing thereto , shall constitute an agreement between our two Governments

2332

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
which shall enter in force on the date of your reply and shall remain in force indefinitely subject to termination by either Government at any time on giving six months ' notice .
Please accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT His Excellency the Honorable
The SECRETARY OF STATE FOR EXTERNAL AFFAIRS , Ottawa.

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador
DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

NO. 113

OTTAWA, April 12, 1949.

EXCELLENCY,

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note No. 93 of April 12 , 1949 , in which you inform me that the Government of the United States of America wishes to propose that our two Governments agree:

(a) that a Joint Industrial Mobilization Committee be now constituted consisting , on the United States side, of the Chairman of the National Security Resources Board and the Chairman of the Munitions Board and, on the Canadian side , of the Chairman of the Industrial Defence Board and a senior official of the Department of Trade and Commerce ;
(b) that the Joint Committee :
(i) exchange information with a view to the coordination of the plans of the United States and Canada for industrial mobilization ;
(ii) consider what recommendations in the field of industrial mobilization planning in areas of common concern should be made to each Government ;
(iii) be empowered to organize joint subcommittees from time to time to facilitate the discharge of its functions ;
(iv) be responsible for cooperation with the Permanent Joint Board of Defence on matters of industrial mobilization .
2. I have the honour to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Canada concurs in the foregoing proposals and agrees that Your Excellency's note and this reply shall constitute an agreement between our two Governments which shall enter into force on this day and shall remain in force indefinitely, subject to termination by either Government at any time on giving six months ' notice.

63 STAT. ] CANADA- JOINT INDUSTRIAL MOBILIZATION -APR. 12, 1949
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
LB PEARSON Secretary of State for
External Affairs.
His Excellency , The Hon . LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT, Ambassador of the United States of America, Embassy of the United States of America, 100 Wellington Street, Ottawa.

2333

2334

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

February 21, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1892]

Agreement between the United States of America and Colombia respecting an Army mission to Colombia. Signed at Washington February 21, 1949; entered into force February 21, 1949.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CONVENIO ENTRE EL GO-

GOVERNMENT OF THE BIERNO DE LOS ESTA-

UNITED STATES OF AMER- DOS UNIDOS DE AMER-

ICA AND THE GOVERN- ICA Y EL GOBIERNO DE

MENT OF THE REPUBLIC LA REPUBLICA DE CO-

OF COLOMBIA

LOMBIA

In conformity with the request De conformidad con la solicitud

of the Government of the Re- del Gobierno de la República de public of Colombia to the Govern- Colombia al Gobierno de los

ment of the United States of Estados Unidos de América , el America, the President of the Presidente de los Estados Unidos

United States of America has au- de América ha autorizado el nom-

thorized the appointment of offi- bramiento de oficiales y personal cers and enlisted men to constitute subalterno para constituir una

an Army Mission to the Republic Misión Militar en la República de of Colombia under the conditions Colombia de acuerdo con las con-

specified below:

diciones estipuladas a continuación:

TITLE I

TITULO I

Purpose and Duration

Objeto y Duración

ARTICLE 1. The purpose of this ARTICULO 1. El objeto de esta

Mission is to cooperate with the Misión es el de cooperar con el Ministry of War and the Chief of Ministro de Guerra, con el Jefe Staff and with the personnel of the de Estado Mayor y con el personal

Colombian Army with a view to del Ejército de Colombia en el enhancing the efficiency of the propósito de aumentar la eficiencia Colombian Army in branches to be del Ejército de Colombia en las determined and wherever re- ramas que se determinen y donde-

quired by the Ministry of War of quiera que lo disponga el MinisteColombia under the conditions as rio de Guerra de Colombia de

outlined in Article 7 .

acuerdo con las condiciones que se

bosquejan en el Artículo 7.

ARTICLE 2. (a) This Mission ARTICULO 2. (a) Esta Misión

shall continue for a period of four continuará por un período de

years from the date of the signing cuatro años a partir de la fecha of this Agreement by the ac- de la firma de este Convenio por credited representatives of the los representantes acreditados del Government of the United States Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

of America and the Government de América y del Gobierno de la of the Republic of Colombia República de Colombia, siempre

63 STAT. ]

COLOMBIA-ARMY MISSION- FEB. 21, 1949

2335

unless previously terminated or que no sea terminado antes o

extended as hereinafter provided . prorrogado en la forma que se Any member of the Mission may establece más adelante . Cual-

be recalled by the Government of quier miembro de la Misión puede the United States of America ser retirado por el Gobierno de los

after the expiration of two years of Estados Unidos de América des-

service, in which case another pués de la expiración de dos años

member shall be furnished to re- de servicio , en cuyo caso se sumi-

place him.

nistrará otro miembro para que

lo reemplace.

(b) The military personnel now (b) Los militares actualmente

serving with the United States en el servicio de la Misión Militar

Military Mission may continue in de los Estados Unidos pueden

their duties under the conditions continuar sus funciones bajo las

of this Agreement, in which case condiciones de este Convenio , en

their period of previous service in cuyo caso el período de su ser-

Colombia will be credited.

vicio anterior en Colombia será

acreditado . ARTICLE 3. If the Government ARTICULO 3. Si el Gobierno de
of the Republic of Colombia la República de Colombia deseare should desire that the services of que los servicios de la Misión the Mission be extended beyond fueren prorrogados más allá del

Extension of serv ices of Mission.

the stipulated period , it shall make período estipulado , hará una proa written proposal to that effect puesta por escrito con este objeto

six months before the expiration seis meses antes de la expiración

of this Agreement.

de este Convenio .

ARTICLE 4. This Agreement may ARTICULO 4. Este Convenio

be terminated before the expira- podrá terminarse antes de la ex-

Termination prior to specified time.

tion of the period of four years piración del período de cuatro

prescribed in Article 2 , or before años prescritos en el Artículo 2 ,

the expiration of the extension o antes de la expiración de la

authorized in Article 3 , in the prórroga autorizada en el Artículo

following manner:

3, de la manera siguiente :

(a) By either of the Govern- (a ) Por cualquiera de los dos

ments , subject to three months ' Gobiernos , mediante aviso por written notice to the other Gov- escrito al otro Gobierno con tres

ernment ;

meses de anticipación ;

(b) By the recall of the entire (b) Al retirar el Gobierno de

personnel of the Mission by the los Estados Unidos de América

Government of the United States todo el personal de la Misión en

of America in the public interest razón de interés público de los

of the United States of America , Estados Unidos de América, me-

subject to a thirty-day written diante aviso escrito al Gobierno

notice to the Government of the de la República de Colombia con

Republic of Colombia.

treinta días de anticipación.

ARTICLE 5. This Agreement is ARTICULO 5. Este Convenio

subject to cancellation upon the está sujeto a cancelación por initiative of either the Govern- iniciativa, ya sea del Gobierno de ment of the United States of los Estados Unidos de América o

Cancellation in case of hostilities.

America or the Government of del Gobierno de la República de 81939-52- PT. III-

2336

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

the Republic of Colombia at any Colombia, en cualquier momento ,

time when either country is in- mientras cualquiera de los dos

volved in domestic or foreign países esté envuelto en hostilidades

hostilities .

internas o externas .

TITLE II

TITULO II

Composition and Personnel

Composición y Personal

ARTICLE 6. This Mission shall ARTICULO 6. Esta Misión estará

consist of such personnel of the constituída por aquel personal del

United States Army as may be Ejército de los Estados Unidos

agreed upon by the Ministry of que sea convenido por el Minis-

War of Colombia and by the terio de Guerra de Colombia y

Department of the Army of the por la Secretaría del Ejército de

United States of America through los Estados Unidos de América

its authorized representatives.

por medio de sus representantes

autorizados .

TITLE III

TITULO III

Duties, Rank and Precedence

Deberes, Grado y Precedencia

ARTICLE 7. The personnel of ARTICULO 7. El personal de la

the Mission shall perform such Misión tendrá las obligaciones duties as may be agreed upon que sean convenidas entre el

between the Ministry of War of Ministerio de Guerra de Colombia Colombia and the Chief of the y el Jefe de la Misión. Mission.
ARTICLE 8. The members of the ARTICULO 8. Los miembros de

Mission shall be responsible solely la Misión serán responsables sola-

to the Ministry of War of Colom- mente ante el Ministerio de Guerra

bia through the Chief of the de Colombia por conducto del

Mission .

Jefe de la Misión .

ARTICLE 9. Each member of the ARTICULO 9. Cada miembro de

Mission shall serve on the Mission la Misión desempeñará sus funwith the rank he holds in the ciones con el grado que tiene en el United States Army. The mem- Ejército de los Estados Unidos. bers of the Mission shall wear the Los miembros de la Misión lle-

uniform of the United States varán el uniforme de su grado en

Army to which they shall be en- el Ejército de los Estados Unidos

titled , but shall have precedence a que tengan derecho, pero ten-

over all Colombian officers of the drán precedencia sobre todos los

same rank.

oficiales colombianos del mismo

Benefits and privileges.

grado . ARTICLE 10. Each member of ARTICULO 10. Cada miembro de

the Mission shall be entitled to all la Misión tendrá derecho a todos.

benefits and privileges which the los beneficios y privilegios que los Regulations of the Colombian Reglamentos del Ejército de CoArmy provide for Colombian offi- lombia otorgan a los oficiales cocers and subordinate personnel of lombianos y al personal subalterno corresponding rank, such as the del grado correspondiente , tales usual ones relative to honors , como los usuales relativos a ho-

63 STAT. ]

COLOMBIA-ARMY MISSION- FEB. 21, 1949

2337

travelling expenses, and medical nores, gastos de viaje y asistencia.

attention.

médica .

ARTICLE 11. The personnel of ARTICULO 11. El personal de la

Disciplinary regulations.

the Mission shall be governed by Misión se regirá por los regla-

the disciplinary regulations of the mentos disciplinarios del Ejército

United States Army.

de los Estados Unidos.

TITLE IV

TITULO IV

Compensation and Perquisites

Remuneración y Obvenciones

ARTICLE 12. Members of the ARTICULO 12. Los miembros de Mission shall receive from the la Misión recibirán del Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República de Colombia la Colombia such net annual com- remuneración neta anual, en mopensation in United States cur- neda de los Estados Unidos , que rency, as may be agreed upon de mutuo acuerdo convengan el between the Government of the Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

United States of America and the de América y el Gobierno de la Government of the Republic of Co- República de Colombia para cada lombia for each member through miembro, por medio de la Embathe Embassy of the United States jada de los Estados Unidos de of America in Bogota and the América en Bogotá y el Ministerio Ministry of War of Colombia. de Guerra de Colombia. Esta

This compensation shall be paid remuneración se abonará en doce in twelve ( 12 ) equal monthly in- ( 12 ) mensualidades iguales , que
stallments, each due and payable vencen y deben pagarse el último on the last day of the month . The día de cada mes . La remunera-

compensation shall not be subject ción no estará sujeta a ningún

to any tax, now or hereafter in impuesto, que esté en vigor o se

effect, of the Government of the imponga en el futuro , del Gobierno

Republic of Colombia or of any de la República de Colombia o de

of its political or administrative cualquiera de sus subdivisiones

subdivisions. Should there, how- políticas o administrativas . Sin

ever, at present or while this embargo , si al presente o durante

Agreement is in effect, be any la vigencia de este Convenio existaxes that might affect this com- tieren impuestos que pudiesen

pensation, such taxes shall be afectar esta remuneración , tales

borne by the Ministry of War of impuestos serán pagados por el Colombia in order to comply with Ministerio de Guerra de Colombia

the provision of this Article that con el objeto de cumplir con la

the compensation agreed upon disposición de este Artículo de que

shall be net.

la remuneración convenida será

neta .

ARTICLE 13. The compensation ARTICULO 13. La remuneración

agreed upon as indicated in the convenida de acuerdo con el

preceding Article shall commence Artículo anterior, comenzará a upon the date of departure from regir desde la fecha en que cada the United States of America of miembro de la Misión parta de los each member of the Mission, and, Estados Unidos de América, y, except as otherwise expressly pro- excepto lo que expresamente se

2 Tax exemption;

2338

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

vided herein, shall continue, fol- dispone en contrario en este Con-

lowing the termination of duty venio , continuará , después de la with the Mission, for the return terminación de sus servicios en la

voyage to the United States of Misión, por todo el tiempo de su

America and thereafter for the viaje de regreso a los Estados

period of any accumulated leave Unidos de América además de

which may be due.

cualquier período de licencia acu-

mulada a que tenga derecho. ARTICLE 14. The compensation ARTICULO 14. La remuneración

due for the period of the return que se deba por el período que trip and accumulated leave shall dure el viaje de regreso y por el be paid to a detached member of de la licencia acumulada se le

the Mission before his departure pagará al miembro que haya sido

from Colombia, and such payment retirado , antes de su partida de

shall be computed for travel by Colombia, y tal pago debe calcu-

sea, air, or land, or any combina- larse a base de viajes por ruta

tion thereof, to the actual port of marítima, aérea, terrestre o por

entry of the United States of cualquier combinación de los tres

America .

hasta el puerto de entrada a los

Travel accommoda. tions.

Estados Unidos de América . ARTICLE 15. (a) Each member ARTICULO 15. (a ) El Gobierno

of the Mission and his family de la República de Colombia

shall be furnished by the Govern- proporcionará a cada miembro de

ment of the Republic of Colombia la Misión y a su familia pasajes de

with first-class accommodations primera clase para el viaje que se

for travel required and performed requiera y se efectúe de conunder this Agreement, between formidad con este Convenio entre

the port of embarkation in the el puerto de embarque de los United States of America and his Estados Unidos de América y su official residence in Colombia for residencia oficial en Colombia,

the outward voyage, and also para el viaje de ida , y también between his official residence in entre su residencia oficial en Co-

Colombia and the port of entry lombia y el puerto de entrada de in the United States of America los Estados Unidos de América

hoSlhdiepffmeectnst, eotfc.house

for the return voyage. The Gov- para el viaje de regreso . El ernment of the Republic of Co- Gobierno de la República de lombia shall also pay all expenses Colombia pagará también los gasof shipment of household effects , tos de transporte de los efectos baggage, and automobile of each domésticos , equipaje y automóvil member of the Mission between de cada miembro de la Misión

the port of embarkation in the entre el puerto de embarque en United States of America and his los Estados Unidos de América y official residence in Colombia. su residencia oficial en Colombia .

All expenses incidental to the Todos los gastos relacionados con transportation of such household el transporte de dichos efectos

effects, baggage, and automobile domésticos, equipaje y automóvil from his official residence in Co- desde su residencia oficial

lombia to the port of entry in Colombia hasta el puerto de the United States of America entrada a los Estados Unidos de

shall also be paid by the Govern- América, serán pagados también

63 STAT. ]

COLOMBIA-ARMY MISSION-FEB. 21, 1949

ment of the Republic of Colombia. por el Gobierno de la República

Transportation of such household de Colombia. El transporte de effects, baggage, and automobile, estos efectos domésticos, equipaje shall be effected in one shipment, y automóvil deberá ser hecho en

and all subsequent shipments shall un solo embarque, y todo embe at the expense of the respective barque subsiguiente correrá por members of the Mission except as cuenta de los respectivos miemotherwise provided herein, or when bros de la Misión, exceptuando lo such shipments are necessitated que se dispone en contrario en

by circumstances beyond their este Convenio, así como en los control. Payment of expenses for casos derivados de circunstancias the transportation of families , ajenas a su voluntad . No se

household effects , and automobiles exigirá de conformidad con este in the case of personnel who may Convenio el pago de los gastos join the Mission for temporary de transporte de las familias,

duty at the request of the Ministry efectos domésticos y automóviles of War of Colombia, shall not be del personal que pueda unirse a required under this Agreement, la Misión para servicio temporal but shall be determined by nego- a solicitud del Ministerio de tiations between the United States Guerra de Colombia, pero se

Department of the Army and the determinará mediante negociacioauthorized representative of the nes entre la Secretaría del Ejército Ministry of War of Colombia in de los Estados Unidos y el repreWashington at such time as the sentante autorizado del Ministerio

detail of personnel for such tem- de Guerra de Colombia en Wásh-

porary duty may be agreed upon. ington cuando se convenga en el nombramiento del personal para dicho servicio temporal.

(b) Except as otherwise agreed (b) Con excepción de lo que ya

upon, the Government of the se ha acordado , el Gobierno de la

Republic of Colombia shall not be República de Colombia no estará obliged to cover the expenses of obligado a sufragar los gastos de the return of any member of the viaje de regreso de ningún miem-

Mission who has been recalled by bro de la Misión a quien retire el the Government of the United Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

States of America prior to the de América antes de cumplir los

completion of two years' service . dos años de servicio. Y en caso

And in case such recalled member de que se reemplazare a dicho is replaced , the expenses connected miembro retirado , los gastos rela-

with transporting the replacing cionados con el transporte del

officer to his station in Colombia oficial que le reemplace a su puesto

shall be incumbent upon the Gov- en Colombia correrán por cuenta ernment of the United States of del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

America .

de América .

(c) If upon the request of the (c) Si a petición del Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República de Colombia se Colombia any member of the retirare a cualquier miembro de la Mission is recalled , all expenses Misión , correrán por cuenta deì connected with such return shall Gobierno de la República de be incumbent upon the Govern- Colombia todos los gastos rela-

2339

2340

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Exemption from customs duties.

ment of the Republic of Colombia . cionados con su regreso . Y si se And in case such officer is re- reemplazare a dicho oficial, los placed, the expenses connected gastos relacionados con el transwith transporting the replacing porte del oficial que le reemplace officer to his station in Colombia a su puesto en Colombia , correrán shall be incumbent upon the por cuenta del Gobierno de la Government of the Republic of República de Colombia. Colombia .
ARTICLE 16. The Government ARTICULO 16. El Gobierno de
of the Republic of Colombia shall la República de Colombia, a grant, upon request of the Chief solicitud del Jefe de la Misión ,

of the Mission, exemption from eximirá de derechos de aduana los

customs duties on articles im- artículos que importen los miem-

ported by the members of the bros de la Misión para su uso

Mission for their personal use and personal y para el uso de los for the use of members of their miembros de sus familias.

Compensation for transportation and traveling expenses.

families . ARTICLE 17. Compensation for
transportation and travelling expenses in the Republic of Colombia on official business of the

ARTICULO 17. La compensación por gastos de transporte y de viaje en la República de Colombia, cuando se trata de comisiones

Government of the Republic of oficiales del Gobierno de la Re-

Colombia shall be provided by the pública de Colombia , será pagada

Government of the Republic of por el Gobierno de la República Colombia in accordance with the de Colombia de acuerdo con las

Provision of automobile, etc.

provisions of Article 10 . ARTICLE 18. The Government
of the Republic of Colombia shall

disposiciones del Artículo 10. ARTICULO 18. El Gobierno de
la República de Colombia pro-

provide the Chief of the Mission porcionará al Jefe de la Misión un

with a suitable automobile with automóvil adecuado , con chaufchauffeur, for use on official busi- feur, para su uso en asuntos

ness . Suitable motor transporta- oficiales. El Gobierno de la

Office space, etc.

tion with chauffeur shall on call República de Colombia, cuando

be made available by the Govern- así se le solicite, proporcionará

ment of the Republic of Colombia transporte adecuado en automóvil

for use by the members of the con chauffeur, para uso de los Mission for the conduct of the miembros de la Misión en el

official business of the Mission .

cumplimiento de las funciones

oficiales de la Misión.

ARTICLE 19. The Government of ARTICULO 19. El Gobierno de la

the Republic of Colombia shall República de Colombia proporprovide suitable office space and cionará una oficina adecuada para facilities for the use of the mem- uso de los miembros de la Misión .

bers of the Mission .

Transportation of remains in case of

ARTICLE 20. If any member of ARTICULO 20. Si cualquier miem-

death.

the Mission, or any of his family bro de la Misión o cualquier miem-

should die in Colombia, the Gov- bro de su familia falleciese en

ernment of the Republic of Colom- Colombia, el Gobierno de la Re-

bia shall have the body trans- pública de Colombia hará que los

ported to such place in the United restos sean transportados hasta el

63 STAT.]

COLOMBIA-ARMY MISSION-FEB. 21 , 1949

2341

States of America as the surviving lugar en los Estados Unidos de

members of the family may de- América que determinen los miem-

cide, but the cost to the Govern- bros sobrevivientes de la familia,

ment of the Republic of Colombia pero el costo para el Gobierno de

shall not exceed the cost of trans- la República de Colombia no ex-

porting the remains from the place cederá del costo del transporte de

of decease to New York City. los restos del lugar del falleciShould the deceased be a member miento a la ciudad de Nueva

of the Mission, his services with York. Si el fallecido es un miem-

the Mission shall be considered to bro de la Misión, se considerará

have terminated fifteen (15 ) days que sus servicios en ésta han Return transporta-
after his death. Return transpor- terminado quince (15) días des- tion for family.
tation to New York City for the pués de su muerte . Se propor-
family of the deceased member cionará transporte de regreso a la

and for their baggage, household ciudad de Nueva York para la effects and automobile shall be familia del miembro fallecido y

provided as prescribed in Article para su equipaje, efectos doméstiCompensation due
15. All compensation due the de- cos y automóvil , de acuerdo con deceased member.

ceased member, including salary las disposiciones del Artículo 15 . for fifteen (15) days subsequent Toda remuneración debida al miem-

to his death, and reimbursement bro fallecido , inclusive el sueldo

for expenses and transportation por los quince (15 ) días subsi-

due the deceased member for guientes a su muerte y todo re-

travel performed on Colombian embolso adeudado al miembro

official business , shall be paid to fallecido por gastos de transporte

the widow of the deceased mem- en viajes realizados en misiones

ber or to any other person who oficiales colombianas , serán pagamay have been designated in dos a la viuda del extinto miembro

writing by the deceased while o a cualquier otra persona que

serving under the terms of this pueda haber sido designada por

Agreement ; but such widow or escrito por el fallecido mientras other person shall not be com- prestaba servicio de conformidad

pensated for accrued leave due con los términos de este Convenio ;

and not taken by the deceased . pero no se compensará a dicha

All compensations due the widow, viuda o a la otra persona por la

or other person designated by the licencia acumulada a que tenía

deceased, under the provisions of derecho el fallecido y no usada

this Article, shall be paid within por él. Todo pago debido a la

fifteen (15 ) days of the decease of viuda o a la otra persona desig-

the said member.

nada por el fallecido, según las

disposiciones de este Artículo , será

efectuado dentro de quince ( 15 )

días después del fallecimiento de dicho miembro .

TITLE V

TITULO V

Requisites and Conditions

Requisitos y Condiciones

ARTICLE 21. So long as this ARTICULO 21. Mientras este Agreement, or any extension there- Convenio o cualquier prórroga del of, is in effect, the Government of mismo esté en vigor, el Gobierno

Services of personnel of other foreign gtioovne.rnments, restric-

2342

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 Stat.

the Republic of Colombia shall de la República de Colombia no not engage the services of any contratará personal de ningún personnel of any other foreign otro gobierno extranjero para presgovernment for duties of any tar servicios de cualquier naturanature connected with the Colom- leza relacionados con el Ejército bian Army except by mutual colombiano, excepto mediante agreement between the Govern- mutuo acuerdo entre el Gobierno ment of the United States of de los Estados Unidos de América

Secrecy requirement.

America and the Government of y el Gobierno de la República de

the Republic of Colombia.

Colombia.

ARTICLE 22. Each member of ARTICULO 22. Cada miembro

the Mission shall agree not to de la Misión convendrá en no

divulge or in any way disclose divulgar, ni en revelar por cual-

to any foreign government or to quier medio a gobierno extran-

any person whatsoever any secret jero alguno , o a persona alguna,

or confidential matter of which cualquier secreto o asunto con-

he may become cognizant in his fidencial del cual pueda tener capacity as a member of the conocimiento en su calidad de

"Family." Annual leave.

Mission . This requirement shall miembro de la Misión. Este re-

continue in force after the termi- quisito continuará siendo obli-

nation of service with the Mission gatorio después de terminar su

and after the expiration or cancel- servicio con la Misión y después

lation of this Agreement or any de la expiración o cancelación de

extension thereof.

este Convenio o cualquier prórroga

del mismo.

ARTICLE 23. Throughout this ARTICULO 23. En todo este Con-

Agreement the term "family" is venio se entenderá que el término

limited to mean wife and depend- "familia" sólo abarca a la esposa

ent children.

y a los hijos no emancipados.

ARTICLE 24. Each member of ARTICULO 24. Cada miembro

the Mission shall be entitled to de la Misión tentrá derecho anual-

one month's annual leave with mente a un mes de licencia con

pay, or to a proportional part goce de sueldo o a una parte thereof with pay for any fractional proporcional de dicha licencia con part of a year. Unused portions of sueldo por cualquier fracción de un

said leave shall be cumulative año . Las partes de dicha licencia

from year to year during service que no hayan sido usadas, podrán

as a member of the Mission.

acumularse de año en año mientras

el interesado preste servicio como miembro de la Misión. ARTICLE 25. The leave specified ARTICULO 25. La licencia que se in the preceding Article may be estipula en el Artículo anterior spent in Colombia, in the United puede ser disfrutada en Colombia, States of America or in other en los Estados Unidos de América
countries, but the expense of travel o en otros países ; pero los gastos and transportation not otherwise de viaje y de transporte no especiprovided for in this Agreement ficados en este Convenio correrán shall be borne by the member of por cuenta del miembro de la the Mission taking such leave . All Misión que disfruta de la licencia. travel time shall count as leave Todo el tiempo que se emplee en

63 STAT. ]

COLOMBIA-ARMY MISSION-FEB. 21, 1949

2343

and shall not be in addition to the viajar se contará como parte de

time authorized in the preceding la licencia y no se añadirá al

Article .

tiempo autorizado en el Artículo

anterior.

ARTICLE 26. The Government ARTICULO 26. El Gobierno de la

of the Republic of Colombia República de Colombia conviene agrees to grant the leave specified en conceder la licencia estipulada

in Article 24 upon receipt of writ- en el Artículo 24 al recibir una ten application, approved by the solicitud por escrito, aprobada por Chief of the Mission with due el Jefe de la Misión , después de

consideration for the convenience prestar debida consideración a la of the Government of the Re- conveniencia del Gobierno de la

public of Colombia.

República de Colombia.

ARTICLE 27. Members of the ARTICULO 27. Los miembros de iceTserofmirneaptlaicoendofmseemrv-.

Mission that may be replaced la Misión que fueren reemplazados bers. shall terminate their services on sólo podrán cesar en sus funciones the Mission only upon the arrival en la Misión a la llegada de los of their replacement , except when reemplazantes , excepto cuando por

otherwise mutually agreed upon mutuo acuerdo los respectivos

in advance by the respective Gobiernos convengan de antemano

Governments .

en lo contrario .

ARTICLE 28. The Government ARTICULO 28. El Gobierno de

Medical attention.

of the Republic of Colombia shall la República de Colombia proporprovide suitable medical attention cionará atención médica adecuada to members of the Mission and a los miembros de la Misión así their families. In case a member como a los miembros de sus fa-

of the Mission becomes ill or suf- milias . En caso de que un miemfers injury, he shall, at the discre- bro de la Misión se enferme o sufra tion of the Chief of the Mission , lesiones , se le recluirá, a discreción

be placed in such hospital as the del Jefe de la Misión, en el hospital Chief of the Mission deems suit- que el Jefe de la Misión considere able, after consultation with the adecuado, después de consultar con Ministry of War of Colombia, and el Ministerio de Guerra de Co-

all expenses incurred as the result lombia, y todos los gastos ocaof such illness or injury while the sionados como resultado de tal patient is a member of the Mission enfermedad o de tales lesiones

and remains in Colombia shall be mientras el paciente sea miembro paid by the Government of the de la Misión y permanezca en CoRepublic of Colombia . If the hos- lombia , serán pagados por el Gopitalized member is a commis- bierno de la República de Colom-

sioned officer, he shall pay his cost bia . Si el miembro hospitalizado of subsistence, but if he is an en- es un oficial , éste pagará sus gastos listed man, the cost of subsistence de subsistencia ; pero si pertenece

shall be paid by the Government of al personal subalterno , los gastos the Republic of Colombia. Fam- de subsistencia serán pagados por

ilies shall enjoy the same privileges el Gobierno de la República de agreed upon in this Article for Colombia . Las familias gozarán

members of the Mission, except de los mismos privilegios convethat a member of the Mission shall nidos en este Artículo para los
81939-52- PT. III-

2344

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

in all cases pay the cost of sub- miembros de la Misión , con excep-

sistence incident to hospitalization ción de que en todos los casos el

Ante, p. 2336.

of a member of his family, except miembro de la Misión pagará los

as may be provided under Article gastos de subsistencia relacionados

10.

con la hospitalización de un miem-

bro de su familia, excepto lo que

Replacement in case of disability .

ARTICLE

29. Any

member

se disponga de acuerdo con el Artículo 10. of ARTICULO 29. Todo miembro de

the Mission unable to perform his la Misión inhabilitado para desem-

duties with the Mission by reason peñar sus servicios con la Misión

of long continued physical disa- por razón de incapacidad física

bility shall be replaced.

prolongada, será reemplazado .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the un- EN TESTIMONIO DE LO CUAL, los dersigned, Dean Acheson, Secre- suscritos, Dean Acheson , Secretary of State of the United States tario de estado de los Estados of America, and Gonzalo Res- Unidos de América, y Gonzalo trepo -Jaramillo , Ambassador Ex- Restrepo -Jaramillo , Embajador traordinary and Plenipotentiary Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario of the Republic of Colombia at de la República de Colombia en Washington , duly authorized Washington , debidamente autorithereto , have signed this Agree- zados para ello , han firmado este ment in duplicate, in the English Convenio , por duplicado , en los and Spanish languages, at Washing- idiomas inglés y español , en Wáshton, this 21st day of February, 1949. ington, el día 21 de febrero de 1949 .
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: POR EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA:
DEAN ACHESON
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA: POR EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA:
GONZALO RESTREPO JARAMILLO

63 STAT. ] COLOMBIA-AIR FORCE MISSION-FEB. 21, 1949

2345

Agreement between the United States of America and Colombia respecting an Air Force mission to Colombia . Signed at Washington February 21 , 1949; entered into force February 21, 1949 .

February 21, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1893]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN CONVENIO ENTRE EL GOTHE GOVERNMENT OF BIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS THE UNITED STATES OF UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y EL AMERICA AND THE GOV- GOBIERNO DE LA REPUERNMENT OF THE REPUB- BLICA DE COLOMBIA LIC OF COLOMBIA

In conformity with the request De conformidad con la solicitud

of the Government of the Repub- del Gobierno de la República de lic of Colombia to the Govern- Colombia al Gobierno de los Es-

ment of the United States of tados Unidos de América, el PreAmerica, the President of the sidente de los Estados Unidos de United States of America has América ha autorizado el nom-

authorized the appointment of bramiento de oficiales y personal officers and enlisted men to con- subalterno para constituir una

stitute an Air Force Mission to Misión Militar en la República de

the Republic of Colombia under Colombia de acuerdo con las con-

the conditions specified below:

diciones estipuladas a continua-

ción:

TITLE I

TITULO I

Purpose and Duration

Objeto y Duración

ARTICLE 1. The purpose of this ARTICULO 1. El objeto de esta Mission is to cooperate with the Misión es el de cooperar con el Ministry of War and the Chief of Ministro de Guerra, con el Jefe Staff and with the personnel of de Estado Mayor y con el personal the Colombian Army with a view del Ejército de Colombia en el to enhancing the efficiency of the propósito de aumentar la eficienColombian Air Corps in branches cia de la Aviación Militar de Coto be determined and wherever lombia en las ramas que se deter-

required by the Ministry of War minen y dondequiera que lo dis-

of Colombia under the conditions ponga el Ministerio de Guerra de

as outlined in Article 7.

Colombia de acuerdo con las con-

diciones que se bosquejan en el Artículo 7.

ARTICLE 2. (a) This Mission ARTICULO 2. (a ) Esta Misión

shall continue for a period of four continuará por un período de years from the date of the signing cuatro años a partir de la fecha of this Agreement by the accred- de la firma de este Convenio por

ited representatives of the Govern- los representantes acreditados del ment of the United States of Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

America and the Government of de América y del Gobierno de la

2346

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

the Republic of Colombia unless República de Colombia, siempre

previously terminated or extended que no sea terminado antes o

as hereinafter provided . Any prorrogado en la forma que se

member of the Mission may be establece más adelante . Cualrecalled by the Government of the quier miembro de la Misión puede

United States of America after the ser retirado por el Gobierno de los

expiration of two years of service, Estados Unidos de América des-

in which case another member shall pués de la expiración de dos años

be furnished to replace him .

de servicio , en cuyo caso se suministrará otro miembro para que lo

reemplace . (b) The Air Force personnel (b) Los militares actualmente

now serving with the United States en el servicio de la Misión Militar

Military Mission may continue in de los Estados Unidos pueden contheir duties under the conditions tinuar sus funciones bajo las con-

of this Agreement, in which case diciones de este Convenio, en cuyo

their period of previous service in caso el período de su servicio

Colombia will be credited .

anterior en Colombia será acredi-

Extension of serv ices of Mission.

tado . ARTICLE 3. If the Government ARTICULO 3. Si el Gobierno de

of the Republic of Colombia la República de Colombia deseare

should desire that the services of que los servicios de la Misión

the Mission be extended beyond fueren prorrogados más allá del

the stipulated period , it shall make período estipulado , hará una pro-

a written proposal to that effect puesta por escrito con este objeto six months before the expiration seis meses antes de la expiración

of this Agreement.

de este Convenio.

Termination prior to specified time.

ARTICLE 4. This agreement may

ARTICULO 4. Este Convenio

be terminated before the expira- podrá terminarse antes de la ex-

tion of the period of four years piración del período de cuatro prescribed in Article 2 , or before años prescrito en el Artículo 2 ,

the expiration of the extension o antes de la expiración de la

authorized in Article 3 , in the prórroga autorizada en el Artículo

following manner:

3 , de la manera siguiente:

(a ) By either of the Govern- (a) Por cualquiera de los dos

ments, subject to three months ' Gobiernos , mediante aviso por written notice to the other Gov- escrito al otro Gobierno con tres

ernment ;

meses de anticipación ;

(b) By the recall of the entire (b) Al retirar el Gobierno de los

personnel of the Mission by the Estados Unidos de América todo

Government of the United States el personal de la Misión en razón

of America in the public interest de interés público de los Estados of the United States of America, Unidos de América , mediante subject to a thirty-day written aviso escrito al Gobierno de la

notice to the Government of the República de Colombia con treinta

Republic of Colombia.

días de anticipación .

Cancellation in case ofhostilities.

ARTICLE 5. This Agreement is

ARTICULO 5. Este Convenio está

subject to cancellation upon the sujeto a cancelación por iniciativa,

initiative of either the Govern- ya sea del Gobierno de los Estados ment of the United States of Unidos de América o del Gobierno

63 STAT.] COLOMBIA- AIR FORCE MISSION- FEB. 21, 1949

2347

America or the Government of the de la República de Colombia, en Republic of Colombia at any time cualquier momento , mientras cualwhen either country is involved quiera de los dos países esté enin domestic or foreign hostilities. vuelto en hostilidades internas o
externas .

TITLE II

TITULO II

Composition and Personnel

Composición y Personal

ARTICLE 6. This Mission shall ARTICULO 6. Esta Misión estará

consist of such personnel of the constituída por aquel personal del United States Air Force as may Ejército de los Estados Unidos que

be agreed upon by the Ministry sea convenido por el Ministerio de of War of Colombia and by the Guerra de Colombia y por la

Department of the Air Force of the Secretaría de las Fuerzas Aéreas

United States of America through de los Estados Unidos de América

its authorized representatives.

por medio de sus representantes

autorizados .

TITLE III

TITULO III

Duties, Rank and Precedence

Deberes, Grado y Precedencia

ARTICLE 7. The personnel of the ARTICULO 7. El personal de la

Mission shall perform such duties Misión tendrá las obligaciones que

as may be agreed upon between sean convenidas entre el Minis-

the Ministry of War of Colombia terio de Guerra de Columbia y el

and the Chief of the Mission.

Jefe de la Misión.

ARTICLE 8. The members of the ARTICULO 8. Los miembros de

Mission shall be responsible solely la Misión serán responsables so-

to the Ministry of War of Colom- lamente ante el Ministerio de

bia through the Chief of the Guerra de Colombia por conducto

Mission .

del Jefe de la Misión.

ARTICLE 9. Each member of the ARTICULO 9. Cada miembro de

Mission shall serve on the Mission la Misión desempeñará sus funwith the rank he holds in the ciones con el grado que tiene en United States Air Force. The el Ejército de los Estados Unidos . members of the Mission shall Los miembros de la Misión lleva-

wear the uniform of the United rán el uniforme de su grado en el

States Air Force to which they Ejército de los Estados Unidos a

shall be entitled , but shall have que tengan derecho, pero tendrán

precedence over all Colombian precedencia sobre todos los ofi-

officers of the same rank.

ciales colombianos del mismo

grado . ARTICLE 10. Each member of the ARTICULO 10. Cada miembro Mission shall be entitled to all de la Misión tendrá derecho a

Benefits and priv. ileges.

benefits and privileges which the todos los beneficios y privilegios Regulations of the Colombian que los Reglamentos del Ejército Army provide for Colombian of- de Colombia otorgan a los oficiales ficers and subordinate personnel of colombianos y al personal sub-

corresponding rank, such as the alterno del grado correspondiente , usual ones relative to honors , tales como los usuales relativos a

2348

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

travelling expenses , and medical honores , gastos de viaje y asisten-

attention .

cia médica.

Disciplinary regulations.

ARTICLE 11. The personnel of ARTICULO 11. El personal de la

the Mission shall be governed by Misión se regirá por los reglamentos

the disciplinary regulations of the disciplinarios del Ejército de los

United States Air Force.

Estados Unidos .

TITLE IV

TITULO IV

Tax exemption.

Compensation and Perquisites

Remuneración y Obvenciones

ARTICLE 12. Members of the ARTICULO 12. Los miembros de Mission shall receive from the la Misión recibirán del Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República de Colombia la Colombia such net annual compen- remuneración neta anual , en mone-

sation in United States currency, da de los Estados Unidos , que as may be agreed upon between de mutuo acuerdo convengan el the Government of the United Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

States of America and the Govern- de América y el Gobierno de la ment of the Republic of Colombia República de Colombia para cada for each member through the Em- miembro, por medio de la Embassy of the United States of bajada de los Estados Unidos de America in Bogota and the Minis- América en Bogotá y el Ministerio try of War of Colombia . This de Guerra de Colombia . Esta compensation shall be paid in remuneración se abonará en doce

twelve ( 12 ) equal monthly install- ( 12 ) mensualidades iguales , que ments , each due and payable on vencen y deben pagarse el último the last day of the month . The día de cada mes . La remunera-

compensation shall not be subject ción no estará sujeta a ningún to any tax, now or hereafter in impuesto , que esté en vigor o se effect , of the Government of the imponga en el futuro , del Gobierno Republic of Colombia or of any of de la República de Colombia o de its political or administrative sub- cualquiera de sus subdivisones divisions. Should there , however, políticas o administrativas . Sin at present or while this Agreement embargo, si al presente o durante la

is in effect, be any taxes that vigencia de este Convenio existie-

might affect this compensation, ren impuestos que pudiesen afectar such taxes shall be borne by the esta remuneración , tales impuestos

Ministry of War of Colombia in serán pagados por el Ministerio

order to comply with the provision de Guerra de Colombia con el

of this Article that the compensa- objeto de cumplir con la dis-

tion agreed upon shall be net .

posición de este Artículo de que la remuneración convenida será

neta .

ARTICLE 13. The compensation ARTICULO 13. La remuneración

agreed upon as indicated in the convenida de acuerdo con el Artí-

preceding Article shall commence culo anterior, comenzará a regir upon the date of departure from desde la fecha en que cada miem-

the United States of America of bro de la Misión parta de los each member of the Mission , and , Estados Unidos de América , y , ex-

except as otherwise expressly pro- cepto lo que expresamente se

63 STAT.] COLOMBIA-AIR FORCE MISSION- FEB. 21 , 1949

2349

vided herein, shall continue, dispone en contrario en este Con-

following the termination of duty venio, continuará , después de la with the Mission , for the return terminación de sus servicios en la

voyage to the United States of Misión , por todo el tiempo de su

America and thereafter for the viaje de regreso a los Estados

period of any accumulated leave Unidos de América además de

which may be due.

cualquier período de licencia

acumulada a que tenga derecho . ARTICLE 14. The compensation ARTICULO 14. La remuneración

due for the period of the return que se deba por el período que dure

trip and accumulated leave shall el viaje de regreso y por el de la

be paid to a detached member of licencia acumulada se le pagará

the Mission before his departure al miembro que haya sido retirado ,

from Colombia, and such payment antes de su partida de Colombia,

shall be computed for travel by y tal pago debe calcularse a base

sea, air, or land, or any combina- de viajes por ruta marítima, aérea,

tion thereof, to the actual port of terrestre o por cualquier combi-

entry of the United States of nación de las tres hasta el puerto

America .

de entrada a los Estados Unidos

de América .
Travel accommodaARTICLE 15. (a ) Each member ARTICULO 15. (a) El Gobierno tions.

of the Mission and his family de la República de Colombia shall be furnished by the Govern- proporcionará a cada miembro

ment of the Republic of Colombia de la Misión y a su familia with first-class accommodations pasajes de primera clase para el

for travel required and performed viaje que se requiera y se efectúe under this Agreement, between de conformidad con este Conthe port of embarkation in the venio entre el puerto de embarque United States of America and his de los Estados Unidos de América

official residence in Colombia for y su residencia oficial en Colombia, the outward voyage, and also para el viaje de ida , y también between his official residence in entre su residencia oficial en Co-

Colombia and the port of entry lombia y el puerto de entrada de in the United States of America los Estados Unidos de América for the return voyage. The Gov- para el viaje de regreso . El

Shipment of household effects, etc.

ernment of the Republic of Co- Gobierno de la República de

lombia shall also pay all expenses Colombia pagará también los gas-

of shipment of household effects , tos de transporte de los efectos

baggage, and automobile of each domésticos , equipaje y automóvil member of the Mission between de cada miembro de la Misión

the port of embarkation in the entre el puerto de embarque en United States of America and his los Estados Unidos de América y official residence in Columbia. su residencia oficial en Colombia.

All expenses incidental to the Todos los gastos relacionados con transportation of such household el transporte de dichos efectos effects, baggage, and automobile domésticos , equipaje y automóvil from his official residence in Co- desde su residencia oficial en

lombia to the port of entry in the Colombia hasta el puerto de United States of America shall entrada a los Estados Unidos de

also be paid by the Government América, serán pagados también

2350

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 Stat.

of the Republic of Colombia . por el Gobierno de la República

Transportation of such household de Colombia . El transporte de es-

effects, baggage, and automobile, tos efectos domésticos, equipaje y shall be effected in one shipment, automóvil deberá ser hecho en un

and all subsequent shipments shall solo embarque, y todo embarque be at the expense of the respective subsiguiente correrá por cuenta de

members of the Mission except as los respectivos miembros de la Miotherwise provided herein , or when sión, exceptuando lo que se dispone

such shipments are necessitated by en contrario en este Convenio, así

circumstances beyond their control. como en los casos derivados de

poPrearsyodnunteyl. on tem- Payment of expenses for the circunstancias ajenas a su voluntransportation of families, house- tad. No se exigirá de conformi-

hold effects, and automobiles in dad con este Convenio el pago de

the case of personnel who may los gastos de transporte de las

join the Mission for temporary familias, efectos domésticos autoduty at the request of the Ministry móviles del personal que pueda

of War of Colombia , shall not be unirse a la Misión para servicio

required under this Agreement, temporal a solicitud del Ministerio but shall be determined by nego- de Guerra de Columbia, pero se

tiations between the United States determinará mediante negociacioAir Force and the authorized nes entre la Secretaría de las

representative of the Ministry of Fuerzas Aéreas de los Estados

War of Colombia in Washington Unidos y el representante autoriat such time as the detail of per- zado del Ministerio de Guerra de

sonnel for such temporary duty Colombia en Washington cuando

may be agreed upon.

se convenga en el nombramiento

del personal para dicho servicio

Expenses of mem-
bers recalled by U. S. Government.

temporal . (b) Except as otherwise agreed (b) Con excepción de lo que ya upon, the Government of the Re- se ha acordado , el Gobierno de la

public of Colombia shall not be República de Colombia no estará

obliged to cover the expenses of obligado a sufragar los gastos de

the return of any member of the viaje de regreso de ningún miem-

Mission who has been recalled by bro de la Misión a quien retire el the Government of the United Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de

States of America prior to the América antes de cumplir los dos

ingExopffeincesre.s of replac

completion of two years ' service . años de servicio . Y en caso de And in case such recalled member que se reemplazare a dicho miemis replaced , the expenses connected bro retirado , los gastos relaciona-

with transporting the replacing dos con el transporte del oficial officer to his station in Colombia que le reemplace a su puesto en

shall be incumbent upon the Gov- Colombia correrán por cuenta del

ernment of the United States of Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de

Membersrecalled by Colombian request.

America .

América .

(c) If upon the request of the (c) Si a petición del Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República de Colombia se

Colombia any member of the retirare a cualquier miembro de

Mission is recalled , all expenses la Misión , correrán por cuenta del

connected with such return shall Gobierno de la República de

be incumbent upon the Govern- Colombia todos los gastos relacio-

63 STAT. ] COLOMBIA- AIR FORCE MISSION-FEB. 21, 1949

2351

ment of the Republic of Colombia. nados con su regreso . Y si se And in case such officer is replaced , reemplazare a dicho oficial , los

the expenses connected with trans- gastos relacionados con el trans-

porting the replacing officer to his porte del oficial que le reemplace

station in Colombia shall be in- a su puesto en Colombia , correrán

cumbent upon the Government of por cuenta del Gobierno de la

the Republic of Colombia.

República de Colombia.

ARTICLE 16. The Government

ARTICULO

16. El

Gobierno

de

Exemption from customs duties.

of the Republic of Colombia shall la República de Colombia, a solicigrant, upon request of the Chief tud del Jefe de la Misión, eximirá

of the Mission, exemption from de derechos de aduana los artículos

customs duties on articles im- que importen los miembros de la

ported by the members of the Misión para su uso personal y para

Mission for their personal use el uso de los miembros de sus

and for the use of members of familias.

their families . ARTICLE 17. Compensation for
transportation and travelling ex-

ARTICULO 17. La compensación por gastos de transporte y de

Compensation for transportation and
tCroalvoelmibniga.expenses in

penses in the Republic of Colombia viaje en la República de Colombia, on official business of the Govern- cuando se trata de comisiones

ment of the Republic of Colombia oficiales del Gobierno de la Repú-

shall be provided by the Govern- blica de Colombia , será pagada

ment of the Republic of Colombia por el Gobierno de la República

in accordance with the provisions de Colombia de acuerdo con las

of Article 10 .

disposiciones del Artículo 10.

ARTICLE 18. The Government of ARTICULO 18. El Gobierno de Provision of auto mobile, etc.

the Republic of Colombia shall la República de Colombia propor-

provide the Chief of the Mission cionará al Jefe de la Misión un

with a suitable automobile with automóvil adecuado, con chaufchauffeur, for use on official busi- feur, para su uso en asuntos

ness . Suitable motor transpor- oficiales. El Gobierno de la Re-

tation with chauffeur shall on pública de Colombia, cuando así call be made available by the se le solicite, proporcionará transGovernment of the Republic of porte adecuado en automóvil con Colombia for use by the members chauffeur, para uso de los miembros of the Mission for the conduct of de la Misión en el cumplimiento the official business of the Mission, de las funciones oficiales de la
Misión . ARTICLE 19. The Government ARTICULO 19. El Gobierno de

Office space, etc

of the Republic of Colombia shall la República de Colombia pro-

provide suitable office space and porcionará una oficina adecuada

facilities for the use of the members para uso de los miembros de la

of the Mission .

Misión .

ARTICLE 20. If any member of

ARTICULO 20. Si cualquier miem-

Transportation remains in case of

the Mission, or any of his family, bro de la Misión o cualquier miem- death.

should die in Colombia, the Gov- bro de su familia falleciese en

ernment of the Republic of Colom- Colombia, el Gobierno de la Re-

bia shall have the body trans- pública de Colombia hará que los ported to such place in the United restos sean transportados hasta el States of America as the surviving lugar en los Estados Unidos de

2352

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

members of the family may decide, América que determinen los miembut the cost to the Government of bros sobreviventes de la familia ,

the Republic of Colombia shall not pero el costo para el Gobierno de exceed the cost of transporting the la República de Colombia no exremains from the place of decease cederá del costo del transporte de

to New York City. Should the los restos del lugar del fallecideceased be a member of the Mis- miento a la ciudad de Nueva York.

sion, his services with the Mission Si el fallecido es un miembro de shall be considered to have ter- la Misión , se considerará que sus

minated fifteen ( 15) days after his servicios en ésta han terminado

death. Return transportation to quince (15 ) días después de su

New York City for the family of muerte . Se proporcionará transthe deceased member and for their porte de regreso a la ciudad de

baggage, household effects and Nueva York para la familia del
automobile shall be provided as miembro fallecido y para su equiCompensation due deceased member. prescribed in Article 15. All com- paje, efectos domésticos y auto-

pensation due the deceased mem- móvil de acuerdo con las disposiber, including salary for fifteen ciones del Artículo 15. Toda

(15) days subsequent to his death , remuneración debida al miembro

and reimbursement for expenses fallecido , inclusive el sueldo por

and transportation due the de- los quince ( 15 ) días subsiguientes ceased member for travel per- a su muerte y todo reembolso formed on Colombian official busi- adeudado al miembro fallecido

ness, shall be paid to the widow of por gastos de transporte en viajes the deceased member or to any realizados en misiones oficiales other person who may have been colombianas, serán pagados a la designated in writing by the de- viuda del extinto miembro o a

ceased while serving under the cualquier otra persona que pueda terms of this Agreement ; but such haber sido designada por escrito widow or other person shall not be por el fallecido mientras prestaba compensated for accrued leave due servicio de conformidad con los

and not taken by the deceased . términos de este Convenio ; pero no All compensations due the widow, se compensará a dicha viuda o a

or other person designated by the la otra persona por la licencia. deceased , under the provisions of acumulada a que tenía derecho el this Article, shall be paid within fallecido y no usada por él . Todo

fifteen (15) days of the decease of pago debido a la viuda o a la otra

the said member.

persona designada por el fallecido ,

según las disposiciones de este Artículo , será efectuado dentro de

quince (15 ) días después del fallecimiento de dicho miembro.

TITLE V

TITULO V

Services of person-
nel of other foreign
governments, restriction.

Requisites and Conditions
ARTICLE 21. So long as this Agreement, or any extension

Requisitos y Condiciones
ARTICULO 21. Mientras este Convenio o cualquier prórroga

thereof, is in effect, the Govern- del mismo esté en vigor, el Go-

ment of the Republic of Colombia bierno de la República de Colom-

shall not engage the services of any bia no contratará personal de

63 STAT. ] COLOMBIA-AIR FORCE MISSION- FEB. 21 , 1949

2353

personnel of any other foreign ningún otro gobierno extranjero government for duties of any para prestar servicios de cualnature connected with the Co- quier naturaleza relacionados con lombian Army except by mutual el Ejército colombiano, excepto agreement between the Govern- mediante mutuo acuerdo entre el ment of the United States of Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

America and the Government of de América y el Gobierno de la

the Republic of Colombia.

República de Colombia.

ARTICLE 22. Each member of

ARTICULO 22. Cada

miembro

Secrecy requirement.

the Mission shall agree not to de la Misión convendrá en no

divulge or in any way disclose divulgar, ni en revelar por cualto any foreign government or to quier medio a gobierno extranjeany person whatsoever any secret ro alguno, o a persona alguna, or confidential matter of which he cualquier secreto o asunto con-

may become cognizant in his fidencial del cual pueda tener capacity as a member of the conocimiento en su calidad de

Mission . This requirement shall miembro de la Misión . Este re-

continue in force after the termi- quisito continuará siendo obli-

nation of service with the Mission gatorio después de terminar su

and after the expiration or cancel- servicio con la Misión y después

lation of this Agreement or any de la expiración o cancelación de

extension thereof.

este Convenio o cualquiera pró-

rroga del mismo . ARTICLE 23. Throughout this ARTICULO 23.

En todo este

"Family."

Agreement the term "family" is Convenio se entenderá que el

limited to mean wife and depend- término "familia" sólo abarca a la

ent children .

esposa y a los hijos no emanci-

pados. ARTICLE 24. Each member of ARTICULO 24. Cada miembro de the Mission shall be entitled to la Misión tendrá derecho anualone month's annual leave with mente a un mes de licencia con

Annual leave.

pay, or to a proportional part goce de sueldo o a una parte prothereof with pay for any fractional porcional de dicha licencia conpart of a year. Unused portions of sueldo por cualquier fracción de un said leave shall be cumulative año . Las partes de dicha licencia

from year to year during service que no hayan sido usadas , podrán

as a member of the Mission .

acumularse de año en año mientras

el interesado preste servicio como miembro de la Misión.

ARTICLE 25. The leave specified ARTICULO 25. La licencia que se

in the preceding Article may be estipula en el Artículo anterior spent in Colombia, in the United puede ser disfrutada en Colombia , States of America or in other en los Estados Unidos de América

countries, but the expense of o en otros países ; pero los gastos travel and transportation not de viaje y de transporte no especiotherwise provided for in this ficados en este Convenio correrán Agreement shall be borne by the por cuenta del miembro de la member of the Mission taking Misión que disfruta de la licencia . such leave. All travel time shall Todo el tiempo que se emplee en

count as leave and shall not be in viajar se contará como parte de la

2354

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

addition to the time authorized in licencia y no se añadirá al tiempo

the preceding Article.

autorizado en el Artículo anterior.

ARTICLE 26. The Government ARTICULO 26. El Gobierno de la

of the Republic of Colombia agrees República de Colombia conviene

to grant the leave specified in en conceder la licencia estipulada

Article 24 upon receipt of written en el Artículo 24 al recibir una

application, approved by the Chief solicitud por escrito , aprobada por

of the Mission with due consider- el Jefe de la Misión, después de

ation for the convenience of the prestar debida consideración a la

Government of the Republic of conveniencia del Gobierno de la

Termination ofservices of replaced members.

Colombia . ARTICLE 27. Members of the
Mission that may be replaced

República de Colombia. ARTICULO 27. Los Miembros de
la Misión que fueren reemplazados

shall terminate their services on sólo podrán cesar en sus funciones

the Mission only upon the arrival en la Misión a la llegada de los

of their replacement , except when reemplazantes, excepto cuando por

otherwise mutually agreed upon in mutuo acuerdo los respectivos

Medical attention.

advance by the respective Gov- Gobiernos convengan de antemano

ernments .

en lo contrario .

ARTICLE 28. The Government ARTICULO 28. El Gobierno de la

of the Republic of Colombia shall República de Colombia proporprovide suitable medical attention cionará atención médica adecuada to members of the Mission and a los miembros de la Misión así their families . In case a member como a los miembros de sus fami-

of the Mission becomes ill or suf- lias. En caso de que un miembro fers injury, he shall, at the discre- de la Misión se enferme o sufra tion of the Chief of the Mission, lesiones , se le recluirá, a discreción be placed in such hospital as the del Jefe de la Misión , en el hosChief of the Mission deems suita- pital que el Jefe de la Misión conble, after consultation with the sidere adecuado , después de conMinistry of War of Colombia, and sultar con el Ministerio de Guerra all expenses incurred as the result de Colombia, y todos los gastos of such illness or injury while the ocasionados como resultado de tal patient is a member of the Mission enfermedad o de tales lesiones and remains in Colombia shall be mientras el paciente sea miembro paid by the Government of the de la Misión y permanezca en Republic of Colombia. If the Colombia, serán pagados por el

hospitalized member is a commis- Gobierno de la República de Cosioned officer, he shall pay his cost lombia. Si el miembro hospitaliof subsistence, but if he is an en- zado es un oficial, éste pagará sus listed man, the cost of subsistence gastos de subsistencia ; pero si pershall be paid by the Government tenece al personal subalterno , los of the Republic of Colombia. gastos de subsistencia serán pagaFamilies shall enjoy the same priv- dos por el Gobierno de la Repúileges agreed upon in this Article blica de Colombia. Las familias

for members of the Mission , except gozarán de los mismos privilegios that a member of the Mission convenidos en este Artículo para shall in all cases pay the cost of los miembros de la Misión, con subsistence incident to hospitaliza- excepción de que en todos los casos tion of a member of his family, el miembro de la Misión pagará

63 STAT. ] COLOMBIA-AIR FORCE MISSION-FEB. 21, 1949

2355

except as may be provided under los gastos de subsistencia relacio-

Article 10.

nados con la hospitalización de un

miembro de su familia, excepto lo

Ante, p. 2347.

que se disponga de acuerdo con el

Artículo 10 .

ARTICLE 29. Any member of

ARTICULO 29. Todo miembro de

Replacement in case ofdisability.

the Mission unable to perform his la Misión inhabilitado para desem-

duties with the Mission by reason peñar sus servicios con la Misión

of long continued physical dis- por razón de incapacidad física

ability shall be replaced .

prolongada, será reemplazado .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the un- EN TESTIMONIO DE LO CUAL , los dersigned , Dean Acheson, Secre- suscritos , Dean Acheson , Secretary of State of the United States tario de estado de los Estados of America, and Gonzalo Restrepo- Unidos de América, y Gonzalo Jaramillo , Ambassador Extraordi- Restrepo - Jaramillo , Embajador nary and Plenipotentiary of the Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario Republic of Colombia at Wash- de la República de Colombia en ington, duly authorized thereto, Washington, debidamente autohave signed this Agreement in rizados para ello , han firmado este duplicate , in the English and Convenio, por duplicado , en los Spanish languages, at Washington , idiomas inglés y español, en Wáthis 21st day of February, 1949. shington, el día 21 de febrero de
1949 .

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: POR EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA:

DEAN ACHESON

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA: POR EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA:
GONZALO RESTREPO JARAMILLO

2356

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

January 4, 31, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1894]

Agreement between the United States of America and Ceylon respecting the exchange of official publications . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Colombo January 4 and 31 , 1949; entered into force January 31, 1949.

The American Ambassador to the Singhalese Minister of External Affairs
AMERICAN EMBASSY, COLOMBO, CEYLON, January 4, 1949.
SIR : I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have taken place
between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and representatives of the Government of Ceylon in regard to the exchange of official publications, and to inform you that the Government of the United States of America agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :
1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended, without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.
2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the Smithsonian Institution. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Ceylon shall be the Office of the Government Printer.
3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of the Government of Ceylon by the Department of Information .
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal, rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own

63 STAT. ] CEYLON-EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS-JAN. 4, 31, 1949
country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.
6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
Upon the receipt of a note from you indicating that the foregoing provisions are acceptable to the Government of Ceylon, the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of your note in reply.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration. FELIX COLE
Ambassador of the United States of America
The Honorable DON S. SENANAYAKE,
Minister for Defence and External Affairs, Colombo.

The Singhalese Minister of External Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS.

No. POL/6/34.

SENATE BUILDING. COLOMBO (CEYLON ) 31st January, 1949.

YOUR EXCELLENCY,

I have the honour to refer to your Note dated the 4th January, 1949 , on the subject of the exchange of official publications between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of

Ceylon and to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Ceylon agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions : -

1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended , without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publications of the other Government not specified in the list , or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.

2357

2358

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

2. The Official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be
the Simithsonian Institution. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Ceylon shall be the office of the Government Printer.
3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of the Government of Ceylon by the Department of Information.
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal , rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.
6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange argeement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.

The Government of Ceylon considers that your Note and this reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of this Note.

Accept, Your Excellency , the assurances of my highest consideration. D. S. SENANAYAKE.

The Honourable FELIX COLE,

Minister of External Affairs.

Ambassador of the United States of America, Colombo.

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- FEB. 9, 1949

2359

Agreement between the United States of America and Greece respecting duty-free entry and payment of transportation charges on relief supplies and packages for Greece. Signed at Athens February 9, 1949; entered into force February 9, 1949.

February 9, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1898]

2360

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Govern-
ment of Greece for duty-free entry and free inland transportation of relief supplies and packages from the United States of America to Greece .

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 2293.

Pursuant to the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the Governments of the United States of America and Greece , signed on July 2 , 1948 , the Governments of the United States and of Greece agree as follows :

Duty-free entry.

1. The Government of Greece shall accord duty-free entry into Greece of :
a ) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies qualified under Economic Cooperation Administration ( hereinafter referred to as ECA ) regulations and consigned to such charitable organizations ( including Greek branches of these agencies ) , as have been or hereafter shall be approved by the Government of Greece .

63 STAT.] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES -FEB. 9, 1949

2361

     *                        * .
     
           ,    2  1948 ,        
   :
1.            :
 )     
 ,     
      
   ,   
      i ...
 (   ... )  
    
(      
  )            .

2362

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

b) Relief packages originating in the United States and sent by parcel post or other commercial channels addressed to an individual residing in Greece , whether privately packed or by order placed with a commercial firm.

c ) Standard packs put up by United States voluntary non -profit relief agencies , or their approved agents , qualified under ECA regulations , to the order of individuals in the United States and sent for delivery addressed to individuals residing in Greece .

Definitions, limita tions
62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 137. 22 U. 8. O., Supp. II, §§ 1501-1522. 63 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 50.

2. For the purpose of this agreement , the term " relief goods" ( sub - paragraph ( a ) above ) shall not include tobacco , cigars , cigarettes , or alcoholic liquors ; " relief packages" ( sub- paragraph ( b) above ) shall include only such goods as are qualified for ocean freight subsidy under the ECA Act and regulations issued by the Administrator thereunder ; and " standard packs" ( sub -paragraph ( c )

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- FEB. 9, 1949

2363

)                   ,       ' ,         .
)   ,        *   ,       ,     ... ,      *           . 2.       ,      " (   ,  )      ,  ,     . " " (   ,  )                   ... ,      ,    

2364

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

above ) shall contain only such articles which qualify under ECA regulations and are approved by the Government of Greece .

* Defrayal of transportation charges.
62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 2316.
Reimbursement from special account.

3. Transportation charges ( as defined in paragraph 5 of Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement ) in Greece on " relief goods" , " relief packages" , and " standard packs" , all as defined in paragraph 1 above , shall be defrayed as follows :
a) The amount of such charges for all such shipments which are sent by United States parcel post addressed to individuals in Greece will be T computed by the Greek postal service in the manner now or hereafter provided by the applicable agreements , rules and regulations of the International Postal System . Such charges shall be reimbursed to the Greek postal service out of the special account provided for in Article IV of the Economic Cooperation

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES - FEB. 9, 1949

2365

  .   "   " (   ,  )              ...      .
3. *  (       5   17     )    "   " , "   "  "  " ,          ,     :
)      '                     ,         '         ,     ,        .                   *  17     

2366

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

62 Stat . , Pt 2, p. 2312.

Agreement between the Governments of the United States of America and Greece ( hereinafter referred to as the " Special Account" ) ; and no claim for such charges will be made against the United States .
b) With respect to such shipments as are originally despatched from the United States by any regularly established commercial channels and forwarded in Greece by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee by Greek parcel post , such items shall be accepted by the Greek postal service without payment of postal charges by such agent . The Government of Greece shall be reimbursed for such parcel post charges out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation .

c) With respect to such shipments as are originally despatched from the United States by any

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- FEB. 9, 1949

2367

          (   "  " ,              .
)            '                        ,                     .               ,      .
).     '                  ,

81939-52 - PT. III- 5

2368

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

commercial channel and forwarded in Greece by an

approved agent of the shipper to the addressee by

Greek common carrier or contract carrier , such items

shall be accepted by such Greek carrier with or

without payment of charges therefor by such agent .

Greece shall reimburse such agent or Greek carrier ,

as the case may be , out of the special account upon

presentation of adequate documentation .

d ) With respect to any such charges which may

be incurred by an agent of a shipper under sub-

paragraphs ( b ) and ( c ) above , other than parcel post charges and carrier charges , such approved agent

shall be reimbursed by the Government of Greece out

of the special account upon presentation of adequate

documentation .

Payments out of special account ; monthly statements.

4. The Government of Greece shall make payments out of the special account for the purpose mentioned in

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-FEB. 9, 1949

2369

      ,      ,       ,                   .         '     ,     ,     .
 )            ,            (  )  ( ) , 8              ,      . 4.               

2370

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

sub-paragraphs ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) and ( d ) of paragraph 3 above , and shall submit to the ECA Mission in Greece with a copy to the Controller of the ECA in Washington , monthly statements of the amounts so expended in a form mutually satisfactory to the Government of Greece and the ECA Mission ; provided , that each such statement shall show at least the total weight carried and the charges therefor , and adjustments shall be made to said fund if shown by ECA audit to be required .

Entry into force; duration.
62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 2293.
Post, p. 2374.

5. This arrangement shall come into effect immediately and shall remain in force , subject to such prior termination or modification as may be agreed upon between the competent authorities of the Governments of the United States of America and Greece , for the same period as the said Agreement of July 2 , 1948 .
6. There is attached hereto and made part hereof an Annex respecting tue terms on which relief packages

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- FEB. 9, 1949

2371

( ) , () , ( )  (  )  3               ...                  ,        ·      ... ,
                             ,     ...      .
5.              ,         ,                 ,          2  1948 .
6.         ,   ,     

2372

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

and packs , as defined herein , shall be received and distributed in Greece .

Official text.

7. The English text of this Agreement shall be the official text .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused the Agreement to be executed in English and in Greek by their duly authorized representatives , on the hinth day offermany 1949. ! ' ]
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
Henry F. Grady Ambassador of the United Stat
of America
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF GREECE : CArsaldarin Constantine Tsaldar Minister for Foreign Af

1 Signed at Athens. See despatch 141 dated February 16, 1949, from Athens

which reads in part : "The Agreement was signed
"" at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs ..

on February 9, 1949,

63 STAT. ] GREECE-RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-FEB. 9, 1949

2373

       , 
     ,       .
7.            .
   ,                
  9     1848 .
        :
Fi Henry F.Bunday
  .     
 
    : fes
   

2374

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Annex to Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Greece for free entry and free internal transportation of relief supplies and packages from the United States to Greece .

Establishment of procedures.
Ante, p. 2359.

The purpose of this annex is to establish procedures for the orderly receipt , transportation and delivery of the relief supplies , packages and standard packs referred to in the Agreement between the Governments of the United

States of America and of Greece , into which this is

incorporated . The Government of Greece and the ECA Mission will

make jointly , and by common accord , a more detailed definition as to the qualification of imported goods as relief items , but always within the framework of general ECA definitions .

Measures for safe-
guarding delivery and use of relief supplies.

Article I 1. The Government of Greece and the ECA Mission will consult with respect to measures to safeguard the

proper delivery and use of relief supplies being

63 STAT. ] GREECE-RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-FEB. 9, 1949

2375

                                    .
              ,  
    ,   
 ,                *  ,      .
      ... 
       ,            ,          ...
 1       ...                  

81939-52- . 111- -6

2376

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

transmitted to Greece from individuals and approved relief organizations in the United States . Provisions of this Agreement will apply whether the relief packages or supplies are being consigned directly to an individual in Greece by an individual or an approved organization in the United States , or whether they are being delivered to an individual in Greece by Greek branch office of Voluntary Relief Agencies certified by the ECA Advisory Committee and approved by the Greek Government .

Statement by recip. ient of relief package.

2. An individual who is to be the recipient of a relief package will in accordance with the requirements

of the Government of Greece , submit a responsible statement

duly legalized by an appropriate Greek State Authority or Service , before delivery of the package will be made to him that :

a ) He is the actual person named as the recipient . He will provide suitable identification , if required ;

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- FEB. 9, 1949

2377

               . '                  '                , *              ,      ...       .
3.       ,                  ,                   :
)           .           ,  '    .

2378

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

b ) The relief packages or packs in question will be used exclusively by himself and his family ; and
c ) The supplies in question will not be resold or delivered for resale and that no otuer disposition except personal use or consumption will be made of then . No other test shall be required to entitle the recipient to the delivery of a relief package or pack .

Limitation of packages.

Article II No person may , in any calendar year , receive more than thirty- six relief packages or packs , as defined herein .

Exceptions.

These packages and packs shall be of a maximum weight per package as shall be established by the Greek postal authorities ; provided that nothing herein shall be construed to forbid an approved American Relief Agency from

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-FEB. 9, 1949

2379

)              15     
)                           .                 .
" 11                       .                ,          .                  

2380

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

receiving an unlimited number of such packages or packs ; and provided , further , that nothing in this Article shall be construed to limit the number of packages or packs that may be received by an individual engaged in charity or philanthropic works in Greece for distribution to needy persons if such individual has the approval of the Government of Greece for such distribution work .

American Voluntary Relief Agencies.
62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 153. 22 U. S. C., Supp. II, § 1515 (c) . 63 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 54.

Article III The ECA Mission will transmit to the Government of Greece a list of the American Voluntary Relief Agencies approved by the ECA Advisory Committee in Washington , for operations in Greece under Section 117 ( C ) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1948. The Government of Greece will

thereupon decide whether to approve such organizations for the receipt and distribution of relief packages within Greece , and shall notify the Chief , ECA Mission of such decision .

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- FEB. 9, 1949

2381

                 "            ,       ,                 ,               .
 111 ·
  ...              ,     *  ...   ,  '       117 ( )      ,  1948 ..                                      ...

2382

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Reimbursement of transportation costs.

Article IV The Government of Greece shall reimburse the approved American Voluntary Relief Agencies out of the special account for all costs incident to the transportation of relief supplies in Greece . The term " transportation" , as used in this Article , shall be deemed to include , but not by way of limitation , receipt , storage and delivery .

Reimbursements, effective date.
Documentary evidence requirement.

Article V Reimbursements to American Voluntary Relief Agencies , referred to in Article IV , supra , to the Greek Postal Service and any other transportation or delivery facility referred to in the Agreement , shall be retroactive to July 2 , 1948 ; provided , however , that such Agencies , Services or Facilities shall have presented documentary evidence of the payment of transportation charges , showing in each case the dates , quantities and sums involved .

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-FEB. 9, 1949

2383

 17
 *               ,  '             ' .   " " '       ,      ,    ,    .
 *    '     ,        17   '                 ,      2  1948    ,   ,    ,              ,     ,  ,     .

2384

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Article VI

Approval of reimbursements.

No reimbursement for transportation costs , whether retroactive or prospective , shall be made by the Government

of Greece out of the special account , to any Agency , Ser-

vice or Facility on account of transportation costs in-

curred in the distribution of relief supplies without the

prior approval of the person designated by the Chief , ECA Mission for the purpose .

63 STAT. ] GREECE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-FEB. 9, 1949

2385

       ,       ,           ,    ,       ,         ,                 *  ...

2386

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

April 14, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1907]

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting a naval mission to Haiti. Signed at Washington April 14, 1949; entered into force April 14, 1949.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ACCORD ENTRE LE GOU-

GOVERNMENT OF THE VERNEMENT DES ETATS-

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT

UNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA RE-

OF THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI PUBLIQUE D'HAITI

In conformity with the request Conformément à la demande du of the Government of the Repub- Gouvernement de la République lic of Haiti to the Government of d'Haïti au Gouvernement des the United States of America, the Etats-Unis d'Amérique, le PrésiPresident of the United States of dent des Etats-Unis d'Amérique America has authorized the ap- autorisé la désignation d'officiers pointment of officers and enlisted et d'enrôlés pour constituer une men to constitute a Naval Mission Mission navale près le Gouvernein the Republic of Haiti under the ment de la République d'Haïti conditions hereinafter specified . aux conditions stipulées ci-après .

TITLE I

TITRE I

Purpose and Duration

But et Durée

ARTICLE 1. The purpose of this ARTICLE 1. La Mission a pour Mission is to cooperate with the but de collaborer avec le Secrétaire Secretary of State for National De- d'Etat de la Défense Nationale de fense of the Republic of Haiti and la République d'Haïti et avec les with the officers of the Coast officiers des Garde-Côtes de la Guard of the Republic of Haiti République d'Haïti en vue d'acwith a view to increasing the croître l'efficience de ce service. efficiency of that service.

ARTICLE 2. This Mission shall ARTICLE 2. La Mission aura
continue for a period of four (4) une durée de quatre (4 ) ans à years from the date of the signing partir de la date de la signature of this Agreement by the accredited du présent accord par les reprérepresentatives of the Government sentants accrédités du Gouverneof the United States of America ment des Etats-Unis d'Amérique and the Government of the Re- et du Gouvernement de la Républic of Haiti, unless previously publique d'Haïti, à moins qu'il terminated or extended as here- n'y soit mis fin plus tôt ou que inafter provided. Any member sa durée ne soit prolongée comme of the Mission may be recalled prévu ci -après . Tout membre de by the Government of the United la Mission pourra être rappelé States of America after the expira- par le Gouvernement des Etatstion of two (2 ) years of service, Unis d'Amérique à l'expiration de

63 STAT. ]

HAITI-NAVAL MISSION-APR. 14, 1949

2387

in which case another member deux (2) années de service, auquel

shall be appointed to replace him. cas un autre membre sera déLikewise, the Government of the signé pour le remplacer. De Republic of Haiti may request the même, le Gouvernement de la recall of a member of the Mis- République d'Haïti pourra desion upon the expiration of that mander le rappel d'un membre same period, in which case the de la Mission à l'expiration de Government of the United States cette même période, auquel cas

of America shall designate a re- le Gouvernement des Etats -Unis

placement .

d'Amérique désignera un rem-

plaçant . ARTICLE 3. If the Government ARTICLE 3. Si le Gouvernement iceEsxotfenMsiisosnionof. serv-

of the Republic of Haiti should de la République d'Haïti désire desire that the services of the Mis- que les services de la Mission sion be extended beyond the stip- soient prolongés au delà du terme ulated period , it shall make a stipulé, il devra en faire la dewritten request to that effect six mande par écrit six (6 ) mois avant

(6) months before the expiration l'expiration du présent accord . of this Agreement.

ARTICLE 4.

This Agreement

ARTICLE 4.

Il

pourra être mis

Termination prior to specified time.

may be terminated before the ex- fin au présent accord avant l'expi-

piration of the period of four (4 ) ration de la période de quatre (4)

years prescribed in Article 2 , or ans prévue à l'article 2 , ou avant

before the expiration of the exten- l'expiration de la prolongation au-

sion authorized in Article 3, in torisée par l'article 3 , de la ma-

the following manner:

nière suivante:

(a) By either of the Govern- (a) Par l'un ou l'autre des deux

ments, subject to three (3 ) months ' Gouvernements , sous réserve d'un

written notice to the other préavis écrit de trois (3 ) mois à

Government ;

l'autre Gouvernement ;

(b) By the recall of the entire (b) Par le rappel de tout le per-

personnel of the Mission by the sonnel de la Mission par le GouGovernment of the United States vernement des Etats-Unis d'Amé-

of America in the public interest rique dans l'intérêt public des of the United States, after official Etats-Unis, après notification offinotification to the Government of cielle au Gouvernement de la Ré-

the Republic of Haiti, without publique d'Haïti , sans remplir les compliance with the formalities formalités prévues au paragraphe provided for in paragraph ( a ) of (a) du présent article. this Article.

Cancellation in ARTICLE 5. This Agreement is ARTICLE 5. Le présent accord event of war.

subject to cancellation on the ini- est sujet à annulation sur l'initiatiative either of the Government tive soit du Gouvernement des

of the United States of America Etats-Unis d'Amérique , soit du or of the Government of the Re- Gouvernement de la République public of Haiti in the event that d'Haïti , au cas où l'un ou l'autre either of those countries is in- de ces pays serait engagé dans volved in a civil or foreign war. des luttes intestines ou dans une
guerre extérieure.

2388

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

TITLE II

TITRE II

Composition and Personnel

Composition et Personnel

ARTICLE 6. This Mission shall ARTICLE 6. La Mission sera

consist of such personnel of the composée de tel personnel de la United States Navy as may be Marine des Etats-Unis qui sera agreed upon between the Secre- convenu entre le Secrétaire d'Etat tary of State for National De- de la Défense Nationale , par fense, through the authorized rep- l'intermédiaire du représentant auresentative of the Government of torisé du Gouvernement d'Haïti

Haiti in Washington, and the à Washington, et le Département

Navy Department of the United de la Marine des Etats-Unis

States of America.

d'Amérique .

TITLE III

TITRE III

Duties, Rank, and Precedence

Fonctions, Grade, et Préséance

ARTICLE 7. The personnel of the ARTICLE 7. Le personnel de la Mission shall perform such duties Mission remplira telles fonctions as may be agreed upon between qui pourront être convenues entre the Secretary of State for National le Secrétaire d'Etat de la Défense Defense and the Chief of the Nationale et le Chef de la Mission. Mission .

ARTICLE 8. The members of the ARTICLE 8. Les membres de la

Mission shall be responsible solely Mission seront responsables seule-

to the Secretary of State for ment vis-à-vis du Secrétaire d'Etat

National Defense, through the de la Défense Nationale, par l'in-

Chief of the Mission.

termédiaire du Chef de la Mission .

ARTICLE 9. Each member of the ARTICLE 9. Chaque membre de

Mission shall serve on it with the la Mission y servira avec le grade rank he holds in the United States qu'il a dans la Marine des EtatsNavy . He shall wear the uniform Unis. Il portera l'uniforme de la

of the United States Navy and Marine des Etats-Unis et aura la

shall have precedence over all préséance sur tous les officiers de

Haitian officers of the same rank. même grade.

Benefits and privileges.

ARTICLE 10. Each member of ARTICLE 10. Chaque membre

the Mission shall be entitled to the de la Mission aura droit aux

same benefits and privileges which mêmes avantages et privilèges que

the Regulations of the Coast les Règlements des Garde-Côtes Guard of Haiti provide for officers d'Haïti prévoient pour les officiers and enlisted men of corresponding et enrôlés du même grade. rank .

Disciplinary regulations.

ARTICLE 11. The personnel of ARTICLE 11. Le personnel de la

the Mission shall be governed by Mission sera régi par les règle-

the disciplinary regulations of the ments disciplinaires de la Marine

United States Navy.

des Etats-Unis.

63 STAT. ]

HAITI- NAVAL MISSION--APR. 14, 1949

2389

TITLE IV

TITRE IV

Pay and Allowances

Solde et Allocations

ARTICLE 12. Members of the ARTICLE 12. Les membres de Mission shall receive from the la Mission recevront du Gouver-

Government of the Republic of nement de la République d'Haïti Haiti such net annual compensa- telle indemnité annuelle nette qui tion as may be agreed upon be- pourra être convenue entre le tween the Government of the Gouvernement des Etats-Unis

United States of America and the d'Amérique et le Gouvernement de Government of the Republic of la République d'Haïti pour chaque Haiti for each member. This membre. Cette indemnité, payée compensation shall be paid, in en monnaie courante des Etats-

currency of the United States of Unis d'Amérique, sera versée en America, in twelve ( 12 ) equal douze ( 12 ) mensualités égales , monthly instalments , each due and payable chacune le dernier jour payable on the last day of each de chaque mois . Cette indemnité month. Such compensation shall ne sera sujette à aucune taxe not be subject to any tax now in actuellement en vigueur ou poueffect or which may hereafter be vant être imposée à l'avenir par le imposed by the Government of Gouvernement de la République

Tax exemption.

the Republic of Haiti or by any d'Haïti ou par une subdivision

administrative or political sub- administrative ou politique dudit

division of the said Government . Gouvernement. Si, toutefois , ac-

If, however, now or hereafter, tuellement ou à l'avenir, pendant

while this Agreement is in effect, la durée du présent accord, il

there should be any taxes that existait certaines taxes qui pussent

might affect that compensation , affecter cette indemnité, ces taxes

such taxes shall be borne by the seraient supportées par le Gouver-

Government of the Republic of nement de la République d'Haïti,

Haiti, in order that the pay de façon que l'indemnité convenue

agreed upon shall be net.

soit versée intégralement .

ARTICLE 13. The compensation ARTICLE 13. L'indemnité con-

Commencement and continuation of

agreed upon as indicated in the venue de la manière indiquée à preceding Article shall commence l'article précédent commencera à upon the date of departure from courir à partir de la date du départ

compensation.

the United States of each member des Etats-Unis de chaque membre

of the Mission and, except as de la Mission, et, sauf le cas où

otherwise expressly provided in d'autres stipulations seraient exthis Agreement, shall continue to pressément prévues dans le présent be paid until termination of duty accord , elle continuera à être versée with the Mission , including the jusqu'à la fin des services du béné-

time for the return voyage to the ficiaire auprès de la Mission, en y

United States and any period of comprenant le temps du voyage de

accumulated leave which may be retour aux Etats-Unis et toute pé-

due .

riode de congé accumulé qui pour-

rait lui être due.

2390

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

ARTICLE 14. The compensation ARTICLE 14. L'indemnité due

due for the period of the return pour la période du voyage de re-

trip and accumulated leave shall tour et le congé accumulé sera be paid to a detached member of versée à un membre détaché de la the Mission before his departure Mission avant son départ de la from the Republic of Haiti , and République d'Haïti, et ce paiesuch payment shall be computed ment sera calculé pour un voyage for travel by the shortest usually par la plus courte voie maritime traveled sea route, regardless of suivie ordinairement, quels que the route and method of travel soient la route et le mode de vo-

adopted by the member detached . yage adoptés par ledit membre.

Travel accommoda-

tions.

ARTICLE 15. Each member of ARTICLE 15. Chaque membre

the Mission and his family shall de la Mission et sa famille re-

be furnished by the Government cevront du Gouvernement de la

of the Republic of Haiti with first- République d'Haïti des billets de

class passage, via the shortest première classe par la plus courte

usually traveled route, for all route ordinairement suivie, pour

travel required and performed tout voyage requis et accompli en

under this Agreement, between vertu du présent accord, entre le

the port of embarkation in the port d'embarquement aux Etats-

United States of America and the Unis d'Amérique et le lieu de son

Shipment of household effects, etc.

location of his post in Haiti, both poste en Haïti , tant à l'aller qu'au for the outward and for the return retour. Le Gouvernement de la voyage. The Government of the République d'Haïti devra égale-

Republic of Haiti shall also as- ment assumer toutes les dépenses

sume all expenses necessitated by nécessitées par le transport des

the transportation of the house- meubles, effets, bagages et au-

hold effects, baggage and auto- tomobile de chaque membre de la mobile of each member of the Mission du port d'embarquement

Mission from the port of embarka- aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique à son tion in the United States of poste en Haïti, de même que les

America to his post in Haiti , as dépenses afférentes au transport well as the expenses incidental to de ces meubles, effets , bagages et the transportation of such house- automobile d'Haïti au port d'emhold effects, baggage and auto- barquement des Etats-Unis d'Amobile from Haiti to the port of mérique . Ceci comprendra tous embarkation in the United States les frais nécessités par leur déof America. This shall include chargement du bateau à l'arrivée all necessary expenses incident to en Haïti, par leur transport du unloading from the ship upon bateau au lieu de résidence en arrival in Haiti , cartage between Haïti, et par leur emballage et the ship and the residence in Haiti, chargement à bord du bateau au and packing and loading on board départ d'Haïti . Le transport de the ship upon departure from ces meubles , effets, bagages et Haiti. Transportation of such automobile sera effectué en une household effects , baggage, and seule expédition, et toutes les automobile shall be effected in one expéditions subséquentes seront à shipment, and all subsequent ship- la charge des membres respectifs ments shall be at the expense of de la Mission , sauf quand il est authe respective members of the trement stipulé dans le présent ac-

63 STAT. ]

HAITI- NAVAL MISSION-APR. 14, 1949

2391

Mission, except as otherwise pro- cord ou quand ces expéditions sont

vided in this Agreement or when nécessitées par des circonstances

such shipments are necessitated indépendantes de leur volonté .

by circumstances beyond their Le paiement des dépenses de

control. Payments of expenses transport des familles, meubles et for the transportation of families, automobiles , dans le cas du per-

household effects and automobiles , sonnel qui pourra rallier la Misin the case of personnel who may sion en service temporaire , ne

join the Mission for temporary sera pas requis aux termes du

duty, shall not be required under présent accord , mais sera déterthis Agreement, but shall be miné par des négociations entre le

determined by negotiations be- Département de la Marine des

tween the Navy Department of Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le rethe United States of America and présentant autorisé du Gouvernethe authorized representative of ment de la République d'Haïti à the Government of the Republic Washington , à l'époque à laquelle of Haiti in Washington at such le détachement du personnel pour

time as the detail of personnel for ce service temporaire sera convenu .

such temporary duty may be

agreed upon. ARTICLE 16.

The Government

ARTICLE 16. Le Gouvernement

cleFsrefeorenpterrsyonfaorl

artiuse,

of the Republic of Haiti shall , upon de la République d'Haïti devra etc.

the request of the Chief of the accorder, sur la demande du Chef

Mission, approved by the Ambas- de la Mission approuvée par sador of the United States of l'Ambassadeur des Etats-Unis

America or by the Chargé d'Af- d'Amérique ou par le Chargé faires ad interim , grant entry, d'Affaires par intérim, la franchise duty-free, for articles imported by douanière pour les articles immembers of the Mission for their portés par les membres de la Mispersonal use and that of the mem- sion pour leur usage personnel et bers of their families , not to exceed celui des membres de leur famille, 25 percent of the total of their jusqu'à concurrence de 25 pour annual salary. The Chief of the cent du total de leur solde annuelle.

Mission shall be responsible for Le Chef de la Mission est respon-

the strict observance of the pro- sable de la stricte observance des

visions of this Article .

prescriptions du présent article.

ARTICLE 17. If the services of ARTICLE 17. Si le Gouverne- Termination ofservices prior to specified

any member of the Mission should ment des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, time.

be terminated by action of the pour des raisons autres que celles

Government of the United States prévues à l'article 5 , met fin aux of America, except in accordance services d'un des membres de la with the provisions of Article 5, Mission avant l'accomplissement

Ante, p. 2387.

prior to the completion of two de deux ans de service, les dis-

years' service, the provisions of positions de l'article 15 ne s'apArticle 15 shall not apply to the pliqueront pas au Voyage de

return voyage. If the services of retour . Si les services d'un mem-

any member of the Mission should bre de la Mission prennent fin,

terminate or be terminated prior ou s'il y est mis fin, avant l'ac-

to the completion of two years' complissement de deux ans de service for any other reason, service pour toute autre raison, y

2392

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Ante, p. 2387. Ante, p. 2389.

including those set forth in Article compris celles prévues à l'article 5, he shall receive from the Gov- 5, ce membre recevra du Gouverneernment of the Republic of Haiti ment de la République d'Haïti all the compensations, emolu- tous les émoluments, indemnités ments , and perquisites as if he had et casuels auxquels il aurait eu completed two years ' service, but droit s'il avait complété deux ans the annual salary shall terminate de service, mais son salaire annuel as provided by Article 13. But prendra fin selon les prescriptions should the Government of the de l'article 13. Toutefois , si le United States of America detach Gouvernement des Etats-Unis

any member for breach of dis- d'Amérique rappelle un membre

cipline, no cost of the return to de la Mission pour des raisons

the United States of America of d'ordre disciplinaire, aucuns des

such member, his family, house- frais occasionnés par le retour aux

hold effects , baggage or automobile Etats-Unis dudit membre et de shall be borne by the Government sa famille et par le transport de

of the Republic of Haiti.

ses meubles, effets, bagages ou automobile ne seront à la charge

du Gouvernement de la République d'Haïti.

Compensation for ARTICLE 18. Compensation for ARTICLE 18. L'indemnité pour transportation and traveling expenses.
transportation and traveling ex- les frais de transport et de voyage
penses in the Republic of Haiti on dans la République d'Haïti , en
official business of the Govern- service officiel du Gouvernement

ment of the Republic of Haiti de la République d'Haïti, sera

shall be provided by the Govern- fournie par le Gouvernement de

ment of the Republic of Haiti in la République d'Haïti confor-

Ante, p. 2388.

accordance with the provisions of mément aux dispositions de l'arti-

Article 10 .

cle 10.

Provision of automobile, etc.

ARTICLE 19. The Government ARTICLE 19. Le Gouvernement of the Republic of Haiti shall pro- de la République d'Haïti fournira vide the Chief of the Mission with au Chef de la Mission une auto-

a suitable automobile, with chauf- mobile convenable, avec chauf-

feur, for his use on official business . feur, pour son usage en service

Vehicles, with chauffeur, and , officiel . Des véhicules , avec chauf-

when necessary, a launch properly feur, et , le cas échéant, une cha-

equipped, shall , upon request, be loupe convenablement équipée placed at the disposal of the devront, sur demande, être mis par

Mission by the Government of le Gouvernement de la République

the Republic of Haiti for the d'Haïti à la disposition des mem-

conduct of the official business of bres de la Mission pour l'accom-

the Mission.

plissement des services officiels de

la Mission.

Office space, etc.

ARTICLE 20. The Government ARTICLE 20. Le Gouvernement

of the Republic of Haiti shall pro- de la République d'Haïti devra vide suitable office space for the affecter un local approprié à use of the members of the Mission l'usage des membres de la Mission

63 STAT. ]

HAITI- NAVAL MISSION- APR. 14, 1949

2393

and grant them all facilities for et leur accorder toutes facilités de

their work, to the extent of its travail, dans la mesure de ses

means .

moyens .

ARTICLE 21. If any member of ARTICLE 21. Si un membre de

the Mission, or a member of his la Mission ou un membre de sa

Transportation ofremains in case ofdeath.

family, should die in Haiti , the famille vient à mourir en Haïti , le Government of the Republic of Gouvernement de la République Haiti shall have the body trans- d'Haïti fera transporter la dépouille

ported to such place in the United mortelle en tel lieu aux EtatsStates of America as the members Unis qu'auront désigné les mem-

of his family may decide, but the bres de la famille du défunt, mais cost to the Government of the les frais que doit supporter le

Republic of Haiti shall not exceed Gouvernement de la République

the cost of transporting the re- d'Haïti ne devront pas excéder le

mains from the place of decease prix du transport de la dépouille

to New York City.

mortelle du lieu du décès à la

ville de New-York.

Should the deceased be a mem- Si le défunt est un membre de

ber of the Mission, his services la Mission, ses services dans ladite with the Mission shall be consid- Mission seront censés avoir pris ered to have terminated fifteen fin quinze (15) jours après sa mort.

Compensation due deceased member.

(15 ) days after his death. The Le voyage de retour au port return trip to the port of embarka- d'embarquement aux Etats-Unis tion in the United States of Amer- d'Amérique de la famille du défunt ica of the family of the deceased et le transport de ses meubles , and the transportation of their effets et automobile seront soumis household effects and automobile aux stipulations de l'article 15 .

shall be provided according to the Toute indemnité due au membre terms of Article 15. All compen- décédé, y compris son salaire pour sation due the deceased member, les quinze ( 15 ) jours suivant son including salary for the fifteen ( 15 ) décès , et le montant des dépenses days subsequent to his death, and et frais de déplacement dus à ce reimbursement for expenses and membre pour voyage effectué en transportation due such member service officiel pour le Gouvernefor travel performed on official ment de la République d'Haïti , business of the Government of the sera remboursé à la veuve du

Republic of Haiti , shall be paid to défunt, ou à toute autre personne the widow of the deceased , or to désignée par écrit par le défunt any other person who may have pendant son service aux termes et been designated in writing by the conditions du présent accord ; mais deceased while serving under the ni la veuve ni aucune autre perterms and provisions of this Agree- sonne n'aura droit à aucune indemment ; but his widow or any other nité pour le congé accumulé dont person shall not be entitled to any n'avait pas bénéficié le défunt. compensation for accrued leave Toutes les indemnités dues à la due and not taken by the deceased . veuve ou à toute autre personne

All compensations due the widow, désignée par le défunt aux termes or any other person designated by du présent article seront versées

2394

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

the deceased , under the provisions dans les quinze (15) jours qui of this Article, shall be paid within suivront le décès dudit membre. fifteen (15 ) days of the decease of the said member.

TITLE V

TITRE V

Obligations and Conditions

Obligations et Conditions

ARTICLE 22. So long as this ARTICLE 22. Pendant la durée

Agreement, or any extension there- du présent accord ou de toute

of, is in effect, the Government of prorogation y relative, le Gouthe Republic of Haiti agrees not vernement de la République d'to engage the services of a Mission Haïti s'engage à n'employer les of any other foreign government services d'une mission d'aucun for duties of any nature connected autre gouvernement étranger pour

with the Coast Guard of Haiti, des activités de quelque nature except by mutual agreement be- que ce soit , intéressant les Gardetween the Government of the Côtes d'Haïti, sauf par entente United States of America and the mutuelle entre le Gouvernement

Government of the Republic of des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le

Haiti .

Gouvernement de la République

d'Haïti .

Secrecy requirement.

ARTICLE 23. Each member of ARTICLE 23. Chaque membre de

the Mission shall agree not to la Mission s'engagera à ne divul-

divulge or in any way disclose to guer ou révéler de quelque façon any government or individual any que ce soit à aucun gouvernement secret or confidential matter of ou particulier aucun secret ou which he may become cognizant aucune affaire confidentielle dont in his capacity as a member of the il pourrait avoir connaissance en Mission . This requirement shall sa qualité de membre de la Miscontinue in force after the termi- sion . Cette interdiction conti-

nation of his services with the nuera à être valable après la fin

Mission and after the expiration de ses services auprès de la Mis-

or cancellation of this Agreement sion et après l'expiration ou l'an-

or any extension thereof.

nulation du présent accord ou de

toute prorogation y relative.

"Family."

ARTICLE 24. In the terms of ARTICLE 24. Aux termes du

this Agreement, the word "fam- présent accord , le mot "famille"

ily" is understood, for each mem- s'entend , pour chaque membre de

ber of the Mission , to mean his la Mission , comme signifiant son

wife and their minor children .

épouse et leurs enfants mineurs.

Annual leave.

ARTICLE 25. Each member of ARTICLE 25. Chaque membre the Mission shall be entitled to de la Mission aura droit à un

one month's annual leave with mois de congé annuel avec solde, pay, or to a proportional part of ou à une partie proportionnelle

such leave with pay for any frac- de ce congé pour toute fraction tional part of a year. The un- d'une année. La portion non utiused portion of such leave shall lisée de ce congé sera accumulée

63 STAT. ]

HAITI- NAVAL MISSION-APR. 14, 1949

2395

be cumulative from year to year d'année en année pendant la durée

during his service as a member of de son service comme membre de

the Mission.

la Mission .

ARTICLE 26. The Government ARTICLE 26. Le Gouvernement

of the Republic of Haiti agrees to de la République d'Haïti consent

grant the leave specified in Article à accorder le congé spécifié à 25 , upon written request approved l'article 25, sur demande écrite

by the Chief of the Mission , tak- approuvée par le Chef de la

ing into consideration the con- Mission , eu égard aux exigences

veniences of the service.

du service .

ARTICLE 27. The leave referred ARTICLE 27. Le congé men-

to in Article 25 may be spent in tionné à l'article 25 pourra être Haiti, in the United States of utilisé en Haïti, aux Etats -Unis

America, or in other countries , but d'Amérique ou en d'autres pays ,

the expense of travel and trans- mais les frais de voyage et de

portation shall be borne by the transport seront supportés par le member of the Mission taking membre de la Mission bénéficiant such leave. Travel time shall de ce congé. Le temps du voyage

count as leave and shall not be in comptera comme congé et ne sera

addition to the time authorized in pas ajouté au congé autorisé à

Article 25.

l'article 25.

ARTICLE 28. Any member of ARTICLE 28. Tout membre de the Mission who may be relieved la Mission qui serait relevé conshall continue service with the tinuera ses services dans la Mis-

Termination in case of replacement.

Mission until the arrival of his sion jusqu'à l'arrivée de son rem-

replacement , except when other- plaçant, sauf entente contraire

wise agreed upon between the entre les deux Gouvernements . two Governments .
ARTICLE 29. Members of the ARTICLE 29. Les membres de

Medical attention.

Mission who may become ill shall la Mission qui tomberaient malabe cared for in the hospitals of the des seront soignés dans les hôpiGovernment of the Republic of taux du Gouvernement de la Haiti at the expense of the Gov- République d'Haïti aux frais dudit ernment of the Republic of Haiti . Gouvernement. Il sera en outre There shall furthermore be pro- prévu , chaque année, des crédits vided annually a credit not to ex- ne dépassant pas 20 pour cent du ceed 20 percent of the total montant total des appointements amount of the annual salaries of annuels des membres de la Mission the members of the Mission for en vue de pourvoir aux soins

medical attention that may be médicaux qui leur seraient fournis, furnished them and the members ainsi qu'aux membres de leur of their families by specialists or famille, par des spécialistes ou in institutions other than the dans des établissements autres

hospitals of the Government of que les hôpitaux du Gouvernethe Republic of Haiti. The ex- ment de la République d'Haïti . penditure of funds of this nature Les sorties de fonds de cette shall be made by the Government nature seront effectuées par le

2396

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

of the Republic of Haiti at the Gouvernement de la République request of the Chief of the Mis- d'Haïti sur la demande du Chef sion . The Government of the de la Mission . Le Gouvernement Republic of Haiti shall not be de la République d'Haïti ne sera responsible for payment of ex- pas responsable du paiement des penses for medical attention re- frais pour soins médicaux reçus ceived outside the territory of the en dehors du territoire de la Republic . Neither shall the Gov- République d'Haïti . Le Gouver ernment of the Republic of Haiti nement de la République d'Haïti be responsible for the payment of ne sera responsable du paiement further compensation following d'aucune autre indemnité dans

physical disability of a member le cas d'incapacité physique d'un

of the Mission .

membre de la Mission.

Replacement in case of disability.

ARTICLE 30. Any member of ARTICLE 30. Tout membre de

the Mission no longer able prop- la Mission qui ne pourrait plus

erly to perform his duties by remplir convenablement ses fonc-

reason of prolonged physical dis- tions par suite d'une incapacité

ability shall be replaced .

physique prolongée sera remplacé.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the un- EN FOI DE QUOI, les soussignés ,

dersigned, Dean Acheson , Secre- Dean Acheson, Secrétaire d'Etat

tary of State of the United States des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, et

of America, and Joseph D. Charles, Joseph D. Charles, Ambassadeur

Ambassador of Haiti in Washing- d'Haïti à Washington, dûment au-

ton, duly authorized thereto , have torisés aux fins des présentes, ont

signed this Agreement, in dupli- signé le présent accord, en double

cate, in the English and French exemplaire, en langue anglaise et

languages, at Washington, this française, à Washington, ce qua-

fourteenth day of April , one thou- torzième jour d'avril mil neuf

sand nine hundred forty-nine.

cent quarante-neuf.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE :
DEAN ACHESON

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI : POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI :
JOSEPH. D. CHARLES

63 STAT. ]

JAPAN-"AWA MARU" CLAIM-APR. 14, 1949

2397

Agreement and agreed terms of understanding between the United States of America and Japan respecting the "Awa Maru" claim. Signed at Tokyo April 14 , 1949; entered into force April 14 , 1949.

April 14, 1949 IT . I. A. S. 1911]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT FOR SETTLEMENT OF THE AWA MARU CLAIM

2398

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Claims waived .

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT FOR SETTLEMENT OF THE AWA MARU CLAIM
WHEREAS the Government of the United States of America and the Japanese Government reached an agreement during the recent hostilities that the Japanese Government would provide vessels which would transport supplies for the relief of Allied nationals in various areas of the Pacific then under Japanese control and the Government of the United States of America would guarantee the immunity of vessels on such missions from attack by Allied forces on both the outward and homeward voyages ; and
WHEREAS the Japanese passenger-cargo vessel Awa Maru was sunk on April 1 , 1945 while homeward bound from such a mission ; and
WHEREAS the Government of the United States of America acknowledged responsibility for the sinking of the vessel and assured the Japanese Government that it would be prepared after the termination of hostilities to consider the question of indemnity ; and
WHEREAS the Government of the United States of America and the Japanese Government sought to reach an equitable and mutually satisfactory solution of this claim ; and
WHEREAS General of the Army Douglas MacArthur has extended his good offices as intermediary between the Government of the United States of America and the Japanese Government in an effort to facilitate agreement :
The undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective governments for that purpose, have reached the following agreement through the good offices of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
ARTICLE I
The Japanese Government, mindful of the equities of the situation as they have developed since the inception of the Occupation of Japan under General of the Army Douglas MacArthur and in appreciation of the assistance-direct and indirect, in goods and services-- received during the post- surrender period from the Government of the United States of America, waives on behalf of itself and all Japanese nationals concerned all claims of any description against the United States Government or any United States national arising out of the sinking of the Awa Maru.
ARTICLE II
The provisions of Article I shall bar , completely and finally, all claims of the nature referred to therein, which will be henceforward extinguished, whoever may be the parties in interest.

63 STAT.]

JAPAN-"AWA MARU" CLAIM-APR. 14, 1949

2399

ARTICLE III
Compensation for The Japanese Government will, in consideration of the special families. nature of this case, endeavor to provide adequate treatment in way of solatium for the families of those who perished in this disaster as well as for the owner of the vessel.

ARTICLE IV
The Government of the United States of America expresses its deep regret for the sinking of the Awa Maru and its sympathy with the families of those who perished in the disaster.
ARTICLE V
This Agreement shall take effect as from this day's date. Executed in duplicate, in the English and Japanese languages, at Tokyo, this fourteenth day of April, 1949 ( 24 Showa) .

For the Government of the United States of America:

[ SEAL]

Willin
WILLIAM J. SEBALD Acting United States Political Adviser
for Japan

For the Japanese Government :

Attest :

stique podian SHIGERU YOSHIDA
Minister for Foreign Affairs

Does

Gutt

DOUGLAS MacARTHUR General of the Army
United States Army
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers

81939-52- PT. III- -7

2400

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

AGREED TERMS OF UNDERSTANDING

The signatories to the Agreement signed this date for settlement of the Awa Maru claim have confirmed on behalf of their respective Governments the following :
It is understood that Occupation costs and loans and credits extended to Japan by the Government of the United States of America since the time of the former's surrender are valid debts owed by Japan to the Government of the United States, reducible only by the decision of the Government of the United States.
Executed in duplicate, in the English and Japanese languages, at Tokyo, this fourteenth day of April, 1949 ( 24 Showa) .

For the Government of the United States of America:

[ SEAL ]

WillinBernes WILLIAM J. SEBALD
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan
For the Japanese Government :

SHIGERU YOSHIDA Minister for Foreign Affairs
Attest :
Doughs the Arts DOUGLAS MacARTHUR
General of the Army United States Army
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers

63 STAT. ]

JAPAN-"AWA MARU" CLAIM- APR. 14, 1949

2401





   





  

    



  





Be Wibla liladm

1 Shigeru Yoshida. "William J. Sebald. ' Douglas MacArthur.



INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.


                        
                                                        
     (       )                

2402

2403

         

[SEAL]

t

JAPAN-"AWA MARU" CLAIM-APR. 14, 1949

    (       )                  
     

 

       

BW. ilSleinae .m

Shigeru Yoshida. 2 William J. Sebald.
Douglas MacArthur.

        

Dory

63 STAT.]

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

                                                                            
                                            
                               
                             
 

2404

2405

               

JAPAN-"AWA MARU" CLAIM- APR. 14, 1949

                                                         

        

               

     

                     

                               

                  

                       

 

63 STAT. ]

2406

            

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

63 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAR. 3, 9, 1949

2407

Agreement between the United States of America and New Zealand, amending the agreement of September 14 , 1948, respecting a United States Educational Foundation in New Zealand. Effected by exchange
of notes dated at Wellington March 3 and 9, 1949; entered into force March 9, 1949.

March 3, 9, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1912]

The American Embassy to the New Zealand Ministry of External Affairs
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its com-

pliments to the Ministry of External Affairs and has the honor to

propose, on instructions from the Department of State, an amendment to the Agreement dated September 14, 1948, between the New Zealand Government and the Government of the United States of America

62 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 2802.

for the Use of Funds made available in accordance with the LendLease Settlement Agreement of July 10, 1946.
The Government of the United States proposes that Article 5 of

60 Stat. , Pt . 2, p. 1791 .
62 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 2805.

the existing Agreement be amended to read as follows :

"The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation Board of Directors.

shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of ten Directors (hereinafter designated the 'Board ') , five of whom shall be citizens of the United States of America and five of whom shall be nationals

of New Zealand. In addition, the principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States of America to New Zealand (hereinafter designated 'the Chief of Mission ' ) shall be Honorary Chairman of the Board. He shall cast the deciding vote in the event of a tie vote by the Board and shall appoint the Chairman of the Board. The citizens of the United States of America on the Board, at least three of whom shall be officers of the United States Foreign Service establishment in New Zealand , shall be appointed and removed by the Chief of Mission ; the nationals of New Zealand on the Board shall be appointed and removed by the Government of New Zealand.
"The Directors shall serve from the time of their appointment

Term .

until the succeeding December 31 next following such appointment

and shall be eligible for reappointment. Vacancies by reason of resignation, transfer of residence outside New Zealand , expiration of term of service or otherwise, shall be filled in accordance with

the appointment procedure set forth in this article.

"The Directors shall serve without compensation but the Foundation is authorized to pay the necessary expenses of the Directors

in attending the meetings of the Board." 81939-52-PT. III- -8

2408

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

If this proposal is acceptable to the Government of New Zealand, the Embassy of the United States of America has the honor to suggest that this note, together with the reply of the Ministry of External Affairs in similar terms, should be regarded as an exchange of diplomatic notes between the Government of the United States of America

62 Stat . , Pt . 3 p. 2807.

and the Government of New Zealand amending the existing Agreement in accordance with the terms of Article 15 thereof. The amendment could take effect on the date of the Ministry's reply.
R. M. S.

WELLINGTON, March 3, 1949.

The New Zealand Ministry of External Affairs to the American Embassy
The Ministry of External Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and has the honour to acknowledge receipt of the Embassy's note dated 3 March 1949 , referring to the proposal of the Government of the United States of p.622805S.tat. , Pt. 3, America that Article 5 of the Agreement dated 14 September 1948 , between the Government of New Zealand and the Government of the United States of America for the Use of Funds made available in accordance with the Lend-Lease Settlement Agreement of 10 July p.610791S.tat . , Pt. 2 1946, be amended to read as follows :-
"The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of ten Directors (hereinafter designated the ' Board ' ) , five of whom shall be citizens of the United States of America and five of whom shall be nationals of New Zealand. In addition , the principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States of America to New Zealand (hereinafter designated 'the Chief of Mission ' ) shall be Honorary Chairman of the Board. He shall cast the deciding vote in the event of a tie vote by the Board and shall appoint the Chairman of the Board. The citizens of the United States of America on the Board, at least three of whom shall be officers of the United States Foreign Service establishment in New Zealand , shall be appointed and removed by the Chief of Mission ; the nationals of New Zealand on the Board shall be appointed and removed by the Government of New Zealand.
"The Directors shall serve from the time of their appointment until the succeeding December 31 next following such appointment and shall be eligible for reappointment. Vacancies by reason of resignation, transfer of residence outside New Zealand , expiration of term of service or otherwise, shall be filled in accordance with the appointment procedure set forth in this article.
"The Directors shall serve without compensation but the Foundation is authorized to pay the necessary expenses of the Directors in attending the meetings of the Board."

63 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-MAR. 3, 9, 1949

2409

The Ministry of External Affairs has the honour to inform the Embassy of the United States of America that the terms of this proposed amendment are acceptable to the Government of New Zealand.
The Ministry will regard the Embassy's note, together with this reply, as an exchange of diplomatic notes between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of New Zealand
amending the existing agreement in accordance with the terms of 62 Stat . , Pt . 3,
Article 15 thereof. The Ministry agrees that the amendment should p. 2807. take effect on the date of this reply.

MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS, Wellington, New Zealand. 9 March 1949
' Mr. Peter Fraser was the New Zealand Minister of External Affairs as of Mar. 9, 1949.

2410

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

May 4, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1915]

Agreement between the United States of America and other governments respecting the removal of restrictions on communications, transportation, and trade in Germany. Dated at New York May 4, 1949; entered into force May 4, 1949.

COMMUNIQUE

MAY 4, 1949 [¹]

The Governments of France, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the United States have reached the

following agreement :

Restrictions removed between zones 1. All the restrictions imposed since March 1, 1948, by the Govern-
of Germany. ment of the USSR on communications, transportation and trade be-

tween Berlin and the Western Zones of Germany and between the

Eastern Zone and the Western Zones will be removed on May 12, 1949.

2. All the restrictions imposed since March 1, 1948 by the Governments of France, the United Kingdom and the United States, or any

one of them, on communications, transportation and trade between Berlin and the Eastern Zone and between the Western and Eastern

Zones of Germany will also be removed on May 12 , 1949.

Meeting of Council

of Foreign Ministers.

3. Eleven days subsequent to the removal of the restrictions referred

to in paragraphs one and two, namely on May 23, 1949, a meeting

of the Council of Foreign Ministers will be convened in Paris to

consider questions relating to Germany and problems arising out of the

situation in Berlin including also the question of currency in Berlin.

J.C ['] J. M. ['] A. C. ['] PCJ [" ]

1 At New York. Jean Chauvel.
' J. Malik. ' Alexander Cadogan. 5 Philip C. Jessup.

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- END OF BERLIN BLOCKADE- MAY 4, 1949

2411

4 MAI 1949.

Les Gouvernements de la France, de l'Union des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques, du Royaume Uni et des Etats Unis se sont mis d'accord sur les points suivants :
1. - Toutes les restrictions établies depuis le 1er mars 1948 par le Gouvernement de l'U. R. R. S. et portant sur les communications, les transports et le commerce entre Berlin et les zones occidentales d'Allemagne et entre les zones occidentales et la zone orientale seront levées le 12 mai 1949 .
2. - Toutes les restrictions établies depuis le 1er mars 1948 par les Gouvernements de la France, du Royaume Uni et des Etats-Unis , ou l'un quelconque d'entre eux, sur les communications, les transports et le commerce entre Berlin et la zone orientale et entre les zones
occidentales et orientale de l'Allemagne seront aussi levées le 12 mai 1949.

3. - Onze jours après la levée des restrictions visées aux paragraphes 1 et 2, c'est-à-dire le 23 mai 1949, le Conseil des Ministres des Affaires

Etrangères sera réuni à Paris pour étudier les questions relatives à

l'Allemagne et les problèmes nés de la situation à Berlin, y compris

la question de la monnaie à Berlin./.

J. C J. M. A. C. PCJ

2412

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

4  1949 .

  ,      ,           :

1.   ,    1  1948 

       ,            

    ,   12  1949  .

2.   ,   1  1948    ,    Coe-

        ,   

    ,    

    12  1949  .

  ,   

3.       ,

  .. 1  2 ,   23  1949           

      , 

    ,         

 .

J. C J. . . . PCJ

Feb. 25, 1949 63 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION- Mar. 5, 1949

2413

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, amending the agreement of September 22, 1948 , respecting a United States Educational Commis-
sion in the United Kingdom. Effected by exchange of notes signed at London February 25 and March 5, 1949; entered into force March 5, 1949.

February 25 and March 5, 1949
[T. I. A. S. 1916]

The American Ambassador to the British Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

SIR,

AMERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON.
February 25, 1949.

I have the honor to propose on instructions from my Government that, notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph ( a ) of Article 7 of the Agreement signed on the 22nd September between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland providing for the establishment of the United States Educational Commission in the United Kingdom, the Commission shall consist of fourteen members, seven of whom shall be citizens of the United States, seven

62 Stat . , p. 3580.

Pt . 3,

of whom shall be citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies.

2. I have further the honor to propose ( 1 ) that paragraph ( c ) of Article 7 should be amended to read as follows : " (c) The principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States to the United Kingdom ( hereinafter designated the "Chief of Mission") or his nominee shall be Honorary Chairman of the Commission. The Chief of Mission , whether present at any meeting of the Commission or not, shall have the power to cast the deciding vote, if occasion
62 Stat . , Pt . 3 arises " ; ( 2 ) that paragraph ( b ) of Article 8 , should be deleted and p. 3580. the following paragraph substituted : " ( b ) The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom shall have the power of appointment and removal of members of the Commission who are citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies". 3. If the Government of the United Kingdom are prepared to accept
the foregoing proposals, I have the honor to suggest that the present note and your reply to that effect shall be regarded as placing on record the agreement of our two Governments on this matter.
Accept, Sir, renewed assurances of my highest consideration. LEWIS W. DOUGLAS
The Rt. Hon. ERNEST BEVIN, M. P.,

Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Foreign Office, London, S. W. 1.

2414

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

The British Permanent Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

(LC 776/55/452 ) YOUR EXCELLENCY,

FOREIGN OFFICE, S. W. 1. 5th March, 1949.

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your note of the 25th February, 1949 , in which you proposed that, notwithstanding paragraph ( a ) of Article 7 of the Agreement signed on the 22nd September, 1948, between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern

p.632580S.tat . , Pt . 3, Ireland providing for the establishment of the United States Educational Commission in the United Kingdom, the Commission shall consist of fourteen members , seven of whom shall be citizens of the United States, seven of whom shall be citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies.

2. You furthermore proposed

62 Stat . , Pt. 3 , p. 3580.

(1 ) that paragraph ( c ) of Article 7 should be amended to read as follows : "(c) The principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States to the United Kingdom (hereinafter designated the "Chief of Mission " ) or his nominee shall be Honorary Chairman of the Commission . The Chief of Mission, whether present at any meeting of the Commission or not, shall have the power to cast the deciding vote, if occasion arises";
(2) that paragraph (b) of Article 8 should be deleted and the following paragraph substituted : " (b) The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom shall have the power of appointment and removal of members of the Commission who are citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies".

3. I have the honour to inform Your Excellency that the Government

of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland accept the above proposals and will regard your note and the present reply as constituting an agreement between our two Governments in this matter.

I have the honour to be, with the highest consideration

Your Excellency's obedient Servant,
His Excellency The Honourable LEWIS W. DOUGLAS,

WILLIAM STRANG

etc., etc., etc., 1 Grosvenor Square, W. 1.

63 STAT. ] ITALY - FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-FEB. 24, 1949

2415

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy, interpreting the agreement of August 14, 1947, respecting financial and economic relations. Effected by exchange of notes verbales dated at Rome February 24, 1949; entered into force February 24, 1949.

February 24, 1949 (T. I. A. S. 1919]

The American Embassy to the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs

F. O. No. 2450

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
NOTE VERBALE

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compli-

ments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to refer to previous correspondence between the Embassy of the United States

of America and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs , and to conversations

between representatives of the Embassy and of the Ministry with

regard to the desirability of clarifying the meanings of the phrases

(1 ) " deterioration of the physical property while under Italian con-

trol," and (2) "where the physical property has suffered non-substan19
tial damage as a result of acts of war. ' Such phrases appear in the

second sentence of Article 3 , paragraph 16 (a) of the " Memorandum

of Understanding between the Government of the United States of

America and the Government of Italy regarding settlement of certain
wartime claims and related matters , " signed in Washington on August 14, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the Memorandum of Under- 61 Stat . , Pt. 4
p. 3966.
standing) and relate to the obligation of the Government of Italy to

restore property to complete good order .

As a result of these communications and conversations agreement

has been reached with regard to the foregoing matters and certain

other connected problems, subject, however, to confirmation by the Governments of the United States of America and Italy.

The Embassy takes pleasure in informing the Ministry that the

Government of the United States of America gives its approval and is prepared to enter into the agreement referred to above (hereinafter

referred to as the " agreement") , which is as follows :
Payment of full 1. The Government of Italy shall in all cases where the approved amount of claim , limiamount of a claim is, at the date of payment , 1,500,000 lire or less , tation.
consider that the claim relates to deterioration of physical property

while under Italian control or to non-substantial damage as a result

of acts of war, and shall therefore pay the full amount of the claim . In all cases, moreover, where the approved amount of a claim is, at

the date of payment, in excess of 1,500,000 lire, but two -thirds of

such approved amount is less than 1,500,000 lire, the Government of

Italy shall pay the sum of 1,500,000 lire .

2. The Government of Italy shall in all other cases pay two -thirds

of the approved amount of a claim.

F1

2416

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Obligation unimpaired.
p.631966S.tat ., Pt. 4 ,

3. The obligation of the Government of Italy under the first sentence of paragraph 16 (a) of the Memorandum of Understanding is understood to remain unimpaired . Property or interests which were

subjected to the measures enumerated in that first sentence in a

manner not deemed to have been in the best interest of such property or interests shall, if in existence, be returned irrespective of the

possession or purported ownership thereof. Where, however , prop-

erty or interests cannot be returned because they are not in existence,

Separate claims.

the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this agreement shall apply. 4. A claimant may present separate claims in those instances where

the properties with respect to which he is claiming are not physically contiguous and do not form part of a related whole.

Properties of a commercial or business enterprise that are used in the prosecution of the activities of that enterprise shall be considered

as forming part of a related whole. In an instance where separate

"Claim."

claims can properly be presented , each claim shall be entitled to separate consideration under this agreement.
5 (a) . The word " claim" shall be deemed to refer to claims pre-

sented against the Government of Italy by nationals of the United

p. 611404S;tPatt. .4,, pP.t3.9626.,

States of America under paragraph 4 of Article 78 of the Treaty of Peace [1] and Article 3 of the Memorandum of Understanding.
(b) . A national of the United States shall be considered , for purposes of the Memorandum of Understanding and of this agreement, as any person, corporation or association on whose behalf the Government of the United States would be entitled to claim the benefits of Article

78 of the Treaty of Peace or of the Memorandum of Understanding

or of both.

Conciliation Com-

mission.

6. Any dispute that may arise in giving effect to the Memorandum

of Understanding or to this agreement shall be submitted to a Concilia-

pp6.114S10t,a1t40.,3. Pt. 2. tion Commission constituted under Article 83 of the Treaty of Peace in the same manner as a dispute that may arise in giving effect to

Article 78 of the Treaty of Peace.

If the Government of Italy is prepared to give its approval to the foregoing agreement , it is suggested that a Note Verbale indicating

such approval be transmitted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to

the Embassy of the United States of America. The agreement shall be considered as having entered into effect as of the date of such Note Verbale.

Rome, February 24, 1949.

of the United

Sta te o

sf

of Embassy

Amer of ica

To the MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS , Rome.
1 Dated at Paris Feb. 10, 1947.

ROME

JCD

63 STAT. ] ITALY- FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS-FEB. 24, 1949

The Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

MINISTERO DEGLI AFFARI ESTERI S. E. T.

45/03662/26

Nota Verbale

Il Ministero degli Affari Esteri ha l'onore di assicurare l'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America di avere ricevuto la Nota Verbale odierna numero 2450 , che qui di seguito si trascrive:
"L'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America presenta i suoi complimenti al Ministero degli Affari Esteri ed ha l'onore di far riferimento alla precedente corrispondenza tra l'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America ed il Ministero degli Affari Esteri , ed alle conversazioni tra i rappresentanti dell'Ambasciata e del Ministero relative all'opportunità di chiarire il significato delle frasi: ( 1 ) ' deteriorazione dei beni fisici durante il controllo italiano ' e (2) nei casi in cui i beni fisici hanno sofferto danni non sostanziali come conseguenza di atti di guerra'. Tali frasi si trovano nel secondo periodo dell'art. 3 , paragrafo 16 (a) del 'Memorandum d'Intesa tra il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America e il Governo Italiano concernente il regolamento di determinati " claims" del tempo di guerra e di questioni connesse' , firmato a Washington il 14 agosto 1947 (d'ora in avanti chiamato Memorandum d'Intesa) e si riferiscono all'obbligo del Governo Italiano di rimettere i beni in ottimo stato.
"In conseguenza di queste comunicazioni e conversazioni un accordo è stato raggiunto relativamente alle precedenti questioni e a certi altri problemi connessi , salvo , tuttavia, conferma da parte dei Governi degli Stati Uniti d'America e dell'Italia .
"L'Ambasciata ha il piacere d'informare il Ministero che il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America dà la sua approvazione ed è disposto a concludere l'accordo di cui sopra (d'ora in avanti chiamato ' accordo ') , il quale è il seguente :
"1. Il Governo Italiano , in tutti i casi in cui l'ammontare approvato di un "claim" è , alla data del pagamento, di lire I.500.000, o meno, considererà che tale " claim" si riferisce a deteriorazione di beni fisici durante il controllo italiano , o è dovuto a danni non sostanziali , come conseguenza di atti di guerra, e conseguentemente pagherà l'ammontare intero del " claim " . Inoltre, in tutti i casi in cui l'ammontare approvato di un " claim" eccede, alla data del pagamento, la somma di lire I.500.000, ma i due terzi di tale ammontare approvato sono inferiori a lire 1.500.000 , il Governo Italiano pagherà la somma di lire 1.500.000 .
"2. In tutti gli altri casi il Governo Italiano pagherà i due terzi dell'ammontare di un " claim".
"3. Resta inteso che l'obbligo del Governo italiano , ai sensi del primo periodo del paragrafo 16 (a ) del Memorandum d'Intesa , rimane inalterato . I beni o gli interessi che furono oggetto delle misure enumerate in detto primo periodo, quando queste siano ritenute non rispondenti al migliore interesse di tali beni o interessi,

2417

2418

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

saranno, se tuttora esistenti, restituiti , indipendentemente dal possesso o dalla pretesa proprietà degli stessi . Tuttavia, nei casi in cui i beni o gli interessi non possano essere restituiti perché non più esistenti , si applicheranno le disposizioni dei paragrafi 1 e 2 del presente accordo .
"4. Un reclamante può presentare " claims" separati nei casi in cui i beni oggetto del " claim " non siano materialmente uniti e non costituiscano parte di un complesso unitario. I beni di un'impresa commerciale o di affari, che siano adoperati per continuare l'attività di tale impresa, saranno considerati come facenti parte di un complesso unitario . Nel caso in cui possano fondatamente venir presentati "claims" separati , ogni " claim" dovrà essere preso singolarmente in esame in base al presente accordo .
"5. (a) La parola " claim" sarà considerata come riferentesi a "claims" presentati contro il Governo italiano da un cittadino degli Stati Uniti d'America, ai sensi del paragrafo 4 dell'art. 78 del Trattato di Pace e dell'art . 3 del Memorandum d'Intesa .
"(b) Sarà considerato come " cittadino" (national) degli Stati Uniti d'America, ai fini del Memorandum d'Intesa e del presente accordo, qualsiasi persona, società od ente nell'interesse e per conto dei quali il Governo degli Stati Uniti sia in diritto di invocare i benefici dell'art. 78 del Trattato di Pace, o del Memorandum d'Intesa, o di entrambi.
"6. Ogni controversia che possa sorgere a proposito dell'applicazione del Memorandum d'Intesa o di questo accordo dovrà essere sottoposta ad una Commissione di Conciliazione, prevista dall'art. 83 del Trattato di Pace, allo stesso modo di una controversia che possa sorgere a proposito dell'applicazione dell'art. 78 del Trattato di Pace.

"Se il Governo Italiano è pronto a dare la sua approvazione al presente accordo, si propone che il Ministero degli Affari Esteri invii una Nota Verbale a conferma di tale approvazione all'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America . L'accordo si considererà entrato in vigore alla data della predetta Nota Verbale."

Il Ministero degli Affari Esteri ha l'onore di comunicare all'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America che il Governo Italiano dà la sua approvazione all'accordo sopra indicato .

Roma, 24 febbraio 1949

DEGLI

MINISTERO

I R A F F A

E ST ER

*
ALL'AMBASCIATA DEGLI STATI UNITI D'AMERICA Roma

63 STAT. ] ITALY-FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS- FEB. 24, 1949

Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS S. E. T.
Note Verbale

45/03662/26

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor to confirm to the Embassy of the United States of America the receipt of Note Verbale No. 2450 of this date, which is transcribed below:

[For the English language text of Note Verbale No. 2450 , see p . 2415.]

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor to communicate to the Embassy of the United States of America that the Italian Government gives its approval to the above-mentioned agreement .

Rome, February 24, 1949

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

THE EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Rome

2419

2420

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

February 3 and 11, 1949
[T. I. A. 8. 1922]

Agreement between the United States of America and Austria respecting duty-free entry and payment of transportation charges on relief supplies and packages for Austria. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Vienna February 3 and 11 , 1949; entered into force February 11 , 1949.

The American Minister to the Austrian Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 13 SIR :

AMERICAN LEGATION, Vienna, February 3, 1949.

Pursuant to the instructions of my Government, I have the honor, in conjunction with Clyde N. King, Chief of the ECA Mission for

Austria, to propose that for the purpose of giving effect to Article

V, paragraph 2, read with Article IV, paragraph 5 , of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the Governments of Austria and
p.622142S.tat. , Pt . 2 , the United States of America, signed on July 2, 1948, the Governments of Austria and of the United States agree as follows :

Duty-free entry.

1. The Government of Austria shall accord duty-free entry into Austria of :

(a) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or

purchased by United States voluntary nonprofit relief

agencies qualified under Economic Cooperation Adminis-

tration (hereinafter referred to as ECA ) regulations and

consigned to such charitable organizations ( including

Austrian branches of these agencies ) , as have been or

hereafter shall be approved by the Austrian Government.

(b) Relief packages originating in the United States and sent by parcel post or other commercial channels addressed

to an individual residing in Austria whether privately packed or by order placed with a commercial firm.

(c) Standard packs put up by United States voluntary nonprofit relief agencies, or their approved agents, qualified

under ECA regulations, to the order of individuals in the

United States and sent for delivery addressed to individuals in the United States and sent for delivery ad-

dressed to individuals residing in Austria.

Definitions, limitations.

2. For the purpose of this agreement, the term "relief goods"

(subparagraph ( a ) , above) shall not include tobacco, cigars , ciga-

rettes, or alcoholic liquors ; "relief packages" (subparagraph (b) ,

above) shall include only such goods as are qualified for ocean freight

6222 SUt.atS.., PCt.. ,1 , pSu. 1p3p7.. subsidy under the ECA Act and regulations issued by the Adminis-

II, 881501-1522.

trator thereunder and shall not exceed 44 pounds ( 20 kilograms)

63 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 50.

gross weight ; and "standard packs " ( subparagraph ( c ) , above)

63 STAT. ] AUSTRIA- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-FEB. 3, 11, 1949

2421

shall contain only such articles which qualify under ECA regula-

tions and are approved by the Government of Austria. 3. Transportation charges ( as defined in paragraph 5 of Article
IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement ) in Austria on "relief goods", "relief packages", and "standard packs", all as defined in

Defrayal of transportation charges.
62 Stat . , Pt . 2 ,
p. 2142.

paragraph 1 , above, shall be defrayed as follows :

Reimbursement ( a ) The amount of such charges for all such shipments fromspecial account.

which are sent by U. S. parcel post addressed to indi-

viduals in Austria will be computed by the Austrian postal service in the manner now or hereafter provided

by the applicable agreements, rules and regulations of

the International Postal System. Such charges shall be re-

imbursed to the Austrian postal service out of the special account provided for in Article IV of the Economic Co-

operation Agreement between the United States of Amer-

ica and

Austria

(hereinafter

referred to

as the

special

62 Stat . , p. 2140.

Pt. 2,

account ) and no claim for such charges will be made.

against the United States.

(b) With respect to shipments which are originally despatched

from the U. S. by any regular established commercial chan-

nels and forwarded in Austria by an approved agent of the

shipper to the ultimate beneficiary by Austrian parcel post, such items shall be accepted by Austrian postal services without payment of postal charges by such agent. The Austrian Government shall be reimbursed for such parcel post charges out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation .

(c) With respect to shipments which are originally despatched from the U. S. by any commercial channel and forwarded in Austria by an approved agent of the shipper to the ultimate beneficiary by Austrian common carrier or contract carrier, or other means of transport arranged by such agent, such items shall be accepted by such Austrian carrier

with or without payment of charges therefor by such agent. The Austrian Government shall reimburse such agent or Austrian carrier, as the case may be, out

of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

(d) With respect to any such charges which may be incurred by an agent of a shipper under subparagraphs (b) and ( c) , above, other than parcel post charges and carrier charges, such approved agent shall be reimbursed by Austria out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation .

4. The Austrian Government shall make payments out of the special

Monthly statements.

account for the purposes mentioned in subparagraphs ( a ) , (b ) , ( c) , and (d) of paragraph 3 , above, and shall submit to the ECA Mission in Austria with a copy to Controller , ECA Washington , monthly state-

2422

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

ments of the amounts so expended in form mutually satisfactory to the Austrian Government and said Mission, provided that each such statement shall at least show total weight carried and charges there-

Entry into force of
pars. 3 (b) , 3 (c) , 3 (d), and 4

for and adjustments shall be made to said fund if shown to be required by ECA audit.
5. So far as practicable, effect shall be given to Paragraphs 3 (b) , 3 (c) , 3 ( d) , and 4 as though they had come into force on April 3, 1948 .

Entry into force; duration.

This arrangement, except as otherwise specified herein , shall come

into effect immediately and shall remain in force, subject to such

prior termination or modification as may be agreed upon between the competent authorities of the Governments of the United States and

p.622137S.tat . , Pt . 2 , Austria, for the same period as the said Agreement of July 2, 1948. If the above proposal is acceptable to the Government of Austria,

I have the honor further to propose that this note and your reply

to that effect shall constitute an Agreement on the above terms between the two Governments.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. JOHN G. ERHARDT
The Honorable KARL GRUBER,

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Vienna.

The Austrian Chancellor to the American Minister

REPUBLIK ÖSTERREICH DER BUNDESKANZLER
Z1. 108.883-Wpol/49.
SIR

VIENNA, 11th February 1949.

With reference to your Note No. 13, regarding an Arrangement
concerning the duty free entry into Austria and the defrayment of transportation charges for relief goods, relief packages and standard packs, forwarded from the United States of America to Austria, I have the honour to inform you that the Austrian Federal Government are agreed on the following text of the Arrangement :
1. The Government of Austria shall accord duty-free entry into Austria of :

( a) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by United States voluntary nonprofit relief agencies qualified under Economic Cooperation Administration (hereinafter referred to as ECA) regulations and consigned to such charitable organizations ( including Austrian branches of these agencies) , as have been or hereafter shall be approved by the Austrian Government.
(b) Relief packages originating in the United States and sent by parcel post or other commercial channels addressed to an indi-

63 STAT. ] AUSTRIA- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- FEB. 3, 11, 1949

2423

vidual residing in Austria whether privately packed or by order placed with a commercial firm .
(c) Standard packs put up by United States voluntary nonprofit relief agencies, or their approved agents, qualified under ECA regulations, to the order of individuals in the United States and sent for delivery addressed to individuals residing in Austria.

2. For the purpose of this agreement, the term "relief goods" ( subparagraph ( a) , above) shall not include tobacco , cigars, cigarettes, or alcoholic liquors ; "relief packages" ( subparagraph (b) , above ) shall include only such goods as are qualified for ocean freight subsidy under the ECA Act and regulations issued by the Administrator thereunder and shall not exceed 44 pounds ( 20 kilograms ) gross weight ; and "standard packs" ( subparagraph ( c ) , above ) shall contain only such articles which qualify under ECA regulations and are approved by the Government of Austria.

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 137. 22 U.S.C. , Supp. II,
6135S01t-a1t5.,22Pt. 1, p. 50.

3. Transportation charges ( as defined in paragraph 5 of Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement ) in Austria on " relief goods", "relief packages", and "standard packs " , all as defined in paragraph 1, above, shall be defrayed as follows :

62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 2142.

(a) The amount of such charges for all such shipments which are sent by U. S. parcel post addressed to individuals in

Austria will be computed by the Austrian postal service in the manner now or hereafter provided by the applicable agreements, rules and regulations of the International

Postal System. Such charges shall be reimbursed to the

Austrian postal service out of the special account provided

for in Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States of America and Austria (hereinafter referred to as the special account ) and no claim

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 2140.

for such charges will be made against the United States.

(b) With respect to shipments which are originally despatched from the U. S. by any regular established commercial channels and forwarded in Austria by an approved agent of the

shipper to the ultimate beneficiary by Austrian parcel post, such items shall be accepted by Austrian postal services

without payment of postal charges by such agent. The Austrian Government shall be reimbursed for such parcel

post charges out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

(c) With respect to shipments which are originally despatched from the U. S. by any commercial channel and forwarded in Austria by an approved agent of the shipper to the ulti-

mate beneficiary by Austrian common carrier or contract carrier, or other means of transport arranged by such agent, such items shall be accepted by such Austrian carrier with

or without payment of charges therefor by such agent. The Austrian Government shall reimburse such agent or

2424

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Austrian carrier, as the case may be, out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation. (d) With respect to any such charges which may be incurred by an agent of a shipper under subparagraphs ( b) and (c) , above, other than parcel post charges and carrier charges, such approved agent shall be reimbursed by Austria out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documantation.

4. The Austrian Government shall make payments out of the special

account for the purpose mentioned in subparagraphs ( a) , ( b ) , ( c) , and (d) of paragraph 3, above, and shall submit to the ECA Mission in

Austria with a copy to Controller, ECA Washington, monthly statements of the amounts so expended in form mutually satisfactory to the Austrian Government and said Mission, provided that each such statement shall at least show total weight carried and charges therefor

and adjustments shall be made to said fund if shown to be required by ECA audit.

5. So far as practicable, effect shall be given to Paragraphs 3 ( b) ,

3 (c) , 3 (d) , and 4 as though they had come into force on April 3, 1948.

This arrangement, except as otherwise specified herein, shall come

into effect immediately and shall remain in force, subject to such prior

termination or modification as may be agreed upon between the com-

p.62213S7.tat . , Pt . 2,

petent authorities of the Governments of the United States and Austria, for the same period as the said Agreement of July 2, 1948 .
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration . Ihr aufrichtiger [ 1] FIGL

His Excellency Mr. JOHN G. ERHARDT

Envoy Extr. and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America Vienna.

1¹ Translation: Sincerely yours.

63 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-MAR. 26, 31, 1949

2425

Agreement between the United States of America and China, amending the agreement of July 3, 1948, respecting economic cooperation under Public Law 472, 80th Congress . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Canton March 26 and 31 , 1949; entered into force March 31 , 1949.

March 26 and 31, 1949
[T. I. A. S. 1923]

The American Minister to the Chinese Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 132

AMERICAN EMBASSY, CANTON March 26, 1949

EXCELLENCY :

Under instructions of my Government, I have the honor to invite
your Excellency's attention to Article V, Paragraph 7, of the Bilateral 62 Stat . , Pt . 3,
Agreement covering economic aid to China [ ¹ ] which requires that p. 2950
the unencumbered balance remaining in the Special Account on April 3, 1949, be disposed of as agreed between the Governments of the United States and China.

In view of existing situation, my Government proposes that the date mentioned in Article V, Paragraph 7, be changed from April 3 to December 31 , 1949.
If the Chinese Government is agreeable to this proposal, this note and your reply indicating such approval will be deemed to constitute amendment to the Bilateral Agreement.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

LEWIS CLARK American Minister His Excellency Dr. TUNG LING, Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Canton.

1 ¹ Signed July 3, 1948.

 :       

     

               8       

       

          

   

2426

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT. The Chinese Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American
Minister

 









 





2427

  

63 STAT. ] CHINA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION-MAR. 26, 31 , 1949 
 

              

        

 

             
     
    

2428

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT. 
 

  



   

 8 ( ) 

  +

01908

 

1' Tung Ling.

63 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-MAR. 26, 31 , 1949 Translation


2429

The Ministry ofForeign Affairs

Republic of China

01908 EXCELLENCY ,

MARCH 27, [1] 1949

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's Note, No. 132, dated March 26 , 1949 , in which you are good enough to inform

Ante, p. 2425.

me that you have been instructed by your Government to invite my

attention to Article V, Paragraph 7, of the Bilateral Agreement cover62 Stat . , Pt . 3,
ing economic aid to China which requires that the unencumbered bal- p. 2950.

ance remaining in the Special Account on April 3 , 1949, be disposed

of as agreed between the Governments of the United States and China,

and that in view of the existing situation , your Government proposes

that the date mentioned in Article V, Paragraph 7, of the above-

mentioned Agreement, be changed from April 3 to December 31, 1949.

In reply, I have the honour to inform you that the Chinese Govern-

ment is agreeable to this proposal, and will deem your note and this

reply as constituting amendment to the Bilateral Agreement.

Please accept , Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

TUNG LING Vice-Minister

His Excellency Mr. LEWIS CLARK, American Minister, American Embassy, Canton.

Ministry of Foreign Affairs

' The Chinese language text is dated "March 31".

   



          

)      )  .   

 (         

     



 





               .

  



  

//



       



  

The Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

Agreement between the United States of America and Iran, amending and extending the agreement of October 6, 1947, respecting a military mission to Iran. Effected by exchange of notes dated at Tehran December 29, 1948, and January 5, 1949; entered into force January 5, 1949.

December 29, 1948, and
January 5, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1924]

2430

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

68 STAT.]

IRAN- MILITARY MISSION- Dec. 29, 1948 Jan. 5, 1949
Translation

2431

Number : 5417

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

NOTE

December 29, 1948

The Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the United States of America and pursuant to Note #3471 [ ¹] of

Shahrivar 29, 1327 ( Sept. 20, 1948) concerning the extension of the agreement [2] for the employment of the American Advisory Mission in the Ministry of War, has the honor to state that, as has been verbally pointed out, the appropriate authorities of the Imperial Government

61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , p. 3306.

are in accord with the extension of the present agreement for the

period of another year as from Esfand 29, 1327 ( March 20, 1949 ) .

Meanwhile, the phrase "American officers and enlisted men" men-

tioned in the present agreement is to be changed to the phrase "Ameri-

can officers and non-commissioned officers". It is requested that the

Ministry of Foreign Affairs be kindly notified of the agreement of

the appropriate United States authorities regarding the aforementioned matter.
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, Tehran.

The American Embassy to the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 575

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Tehran, Iran, January 5, 1949.

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the Ministry's note No. 5417 dated December 29, 1948 relative to the extension of the agreement covering

the United States Military Mission with the Iranian Army.

With respect to the Imperial Ministry's note under acknowledgement, the Embassy has been authorized to communicate to the Iranian

Government the willingness of the Government of the United States

to extend the agreement in question for an additional year beginning March 21 , 1949.

The United States Government is also agreeable to the substitution

of the phrase "non-commissioned officers" in the preamble of the

agreement instead of "enlisted men", as requested by the Iranian Government.

The Embassy avails itself of the opportunity to renew to the Imperial Ministry the assurances of its highest consideration.
THE IMPERIAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, Tehran.
' Not printed. Signed Oct. 6, 1947. 81989-52 - PT. III-

2432

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

March 14, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1925]

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting the settlement of certain war accounts and claims. Effected by exchange
of notes signed at Washington March 14 , 1949; entered into force March 14, 1949.

The Secretary of State to the Canadian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

March 14, 1949

I have the honor to refer to discussions which representatives of my

Refund of excess
sums by U.S. Government .

Government have concluded with representatives of your Government looking toward the final settlement of various outstanding accounts for the wartime procurement of supplies and services by and for our two Governments. The purpose of these discussions was to achieve a settlement of disputed and other unsettled claims remaining from the wartime supply and procurement programs of our two Governments and to obviate the necessity for long continued accounting over the details of the remaining claims. I am informed that agreement has now been reached respecting settlement for such claims and accounts, in accordance with the following terms :
1. The sums deposited by the Government of Canada with the United States Treasury Department to cover the cost of supplies and services furnished under lend-lease and related programs , includ-

ing the "Canpay" program, have exceeded the cost of such supplies

Settlement or waiver ofclaims and accounts.

and services by the sum of $3,675,000. This amount has accordingly been refunded by the Government of the United States to the Government of Canada.
2. The claims and accounts described in paragraphs ( a ) and (b) below are deemed settled or are waived. Neither Government shall

be obligated to make any payment or give any other consideration to the other Government in respect of such claims and accounts.

(a) Claims and accounts connected with or incidental to the conduct of World War II arising out of the furnishing or procurement of supplies and services by or for either Gov-

ernment after March 11 , 1941 and prior to April 1 , 1946.

(b) Claims and accounts arising at any time out of the United

States Lend -Lease program or the program of War Supplies, Ltd. , procurement agency of the Government of Canada.

Noncovered claims

and accounts.

3. Claims and accounts involving the Commodity Credit Corpora-

tion and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and its subsidiaries

are not covered by this settlement.

63 STAT. ] CANADA- WAR ACCOUNTS AND CLAIMS-MAR. 14, 1949
This note, and your reply indicating the concurrence of your Government, will be regarded as the agreement of our two Governments as set forth above, in force on and after the date of your reply note.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
DEAN ACHESON His Excellency
HUME WRONG, Ambassador of Canada.

2433 Entry into force.

The Canadian Ambassador to the Secretary of State
CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA

No. 156

WASHINGTON, D. C., 14th March 1949.

SIR,

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of today's date concerning the settlement of claims and accounts between our two

Governments arising out of wartime procurement of supplies and services .

In reply I have the honor to inform you that the Government of Canada concurs in this settlement as expressed in your note under reference, and in accordance with the suggestion contained therein

your note and this reply will be regarded as the Agreement between our two Governments in this matter.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

DEAN ACHESON, Esq.,

H. H. WRONG

Secretary of State of the United States, Washington, D. C.

2434

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

March 11, 23, 1949 [T. I. A. 8. 1927]

Agreement between the United States of America and Austria respecting
the exchange of official publications. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington March 11 and 23, 1949; entered into force March 23, 1949.

The Secretary of State to the Austrian Minister

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

SIR :

WASHINGTON Mar 11 1949

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have taken

place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and representatives of the Government of Austria in regard to the exchange of official publications, and to inform you that the Government of the United States of America agrees that there shall

be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :
" 1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy

of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present

agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended , without the

necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.

2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the

Smithsonian Institution. The official exchange office for the trans-

mission of publications of the Government of Austria shall be the

Austrian National Library, International Exchange Office.

3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of Austria by the Administrative Library of the Federal Chancellery.
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, includ-

ing postal, rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its

own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.

63 STAT. ] AUSTRIA- EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS-MAR. 11, 23, 1949

6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modifica-
tion of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.

Upon the receipt of a note from you indicating that the foregoing provisions are acceptable to the Government of Austria, the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and

your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments

on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of your note in reply.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

The Honorable Dr. LUDWIG KLEINWAECHTER,

DEAN ACHESON

Minister of Austria.

The Austrian Minister to the Secretary of State

034400

AUSTRIAN LEGATION WASHINGTON, D. C.

March 23, 1949

SIR :

With reference to your note of March 11 , 1949 , and to the conversations between representatives of the Government of Austria and representatives of the Government of the United States of America in

regard to the exchange of official publications, I have the honor to inform you that the Government of Austria agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :

1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended , without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.
2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the Smith-
sonian Institution. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Austria shall be the Austrian National Library, International Exchange Office.
3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of Austria by the Administrative Library of the Federal Chancellery.

2435

2436

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal, rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.
6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
The Government of Austria considers that your note and this reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of this note.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. L. KLEINWAECHTER
The Honorable DEAN ACHESON, Secretary of State.

63 STAT. ] SWITZERLAND- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 13, 1949

2437

Agreements between the United States of America and Switzerland respecting air transport services , amending the agreement of August 3, 1945. Effected by exchanges of notes signed at Bern May 13, 1949; entered into force May 13 , 1949.

May 13, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1929]

The American Minister to the Chief of the Swiss Federal Political Department

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EXCELLENCY :

Bern, May 13, 1949

I have the honor to refer to the conversations between the Govern-

ments of the United States of America and Switzerland in regard to the amendment of the Interim Agreement relating to Air Transport Services concluded between the United States of America and Swit-

zerland dated August 3 , 1945, with a view to the insertion of a dispute clause into this Agreement. I understand that these conversations have now resulted in a text agreed upon between the negotiat-

ing parties which is attached hereto and which is to be inserted as Article 10 of the Agreement.

I shall be glad to have you inform me whether the Swiss Govern-

ment understands that the terms of the dispute clause to constitute

Article 10 of the Agreement resulting from the conversations referred to are as found in the enclosure to this note.

If your answer is in the affirmative, the Government of the United

States of America will regard the new Article 10 of the Agreement effective upon the date of your answer.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

His Excellency Dr. MAX PETITPIERRE, Federal Councilor,

J. C. VINCENT

Chief of the Federal Political Department, Bern.

60 Stat. 1935.

ARTICLE 10

Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or its Annex, any dispute between the contracting parties relative to the interpretation

60 Stat. 1935, 1938. Post, p. 2440.

or application of this Agreement or its Annex which cannot be settled

through consultation shall be submitted for an advisory report to a tribunal of three arbitrators , one to be named by each contracting party, and the third to be agreed upon by the two arbitrators so chosen,

Tribunal of arbitrators; designation.

2438

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

provided that such third arbitrator shall not be a national of either

contracting party. Each of the contracting parties shall designate an arbitrator within two months of the date of delivery by either party

to the other party of a diplomatic note requesting arbitration of a dispute ; and the third arbitrator shall be agreed upon within one

month after such period of two months.

Appointment by ICAO .

If either of the contracting parties fails to designate its own arbi-

trator within two months, or if the third arbitrator is not agreed upon

within the time limit indicated, the President of the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization (hereinafter called ICAO )

shall be requested to make the necessary appointments by choosing the

arbitrator or arbitrators from a panel of arbitral personnel maintained in accordance with the practice of Icao.

Expenses.

The contracting parties will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in any such advisory report. A moiety of the expenses of the arbitral tribunal shall be borne by each party.

The Chief ofthe Swiss Federal Political Department to the American Minister

LE CHEF DU
DÉPARTEMENT POLITIQUE FÉDÉRAL

BERNE, le 13 mai 1949.

MONSIEUR LE MINISTRE,

Par lettre de ce jour, vous avez bien voulu me proposer d'insérer une clause arbitrale dans l'accord provisoire sur les lignes aériennes entre la Suisse et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique, du 3 août 1945. J'ai pris bonne note que ce texte, qui deviendrait l'article 10 de l'accord, a fait l'objet de conversations entre représentants des Autorités fédérales suisses et américaines.

J'ai l'honneur de porter à la connaissance de Votre Excellence que le Conseil Fédéral Suisse approuve le texte dont il s'agit et qu'il le considère comme en vigueur dès aujourd'hui .
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Ministre, l'assurance de ma haute considération .

who criming

(Max Petitpierre ) Son Excellence
Monsieur JOHN CARTER VINCENT Ministre des Etats-Unis d'Amérique Berne

63 STAT. ]

SWITZERLAND-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 13, 1949 Translation

2439

THE CHIEF OF THE
FEDERAL POLITICAL DEPARTMENT
MR. MINISTER :

BERN, May 13, 1949.

In a letter dated today you were so good as to propose to me that an arbitration clause be inserted in the Interim Agreement between the United States of America and Switzerland relating to Air Transport

Services, dated August 3, 1945. I have taken due note of the fact that such text, which would become article 10 of the agreement, was the

subject of conversations between representatives of the Swiss federal Authorities and representatives of the American Authorities.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Swiss Federal

Council approves the text in question and that it considers it to be in force as of the present date.

Accept, Mr. Minister, the assurances of my high consideration. MAX PETITPIERRE.

(Max Petitpierre )

His Excellency JOHN CARTER VINCENT

Minister ofthe United States of America Bern

Ante, p. 2437. 60 Stat. 1935.

The American Minister to the Chief of the Swiss Federal Political Department

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EXCELLENCY :

BERN, May 13, 1949

I have the honor to refer to the conversations between the Govern-

ments of the United States of America and Switzerland in regard to the amendment of the Interim Agreement relating to Air Transport Services concluded between the United States of America and Switzer-

land on August 3, 1945 , with a view to the incorporation of the Bermuda principles into this Agreement. I understand that these conversations which have taken place pursuant to the suggestion of the Federal Air Office communication of May 21, 1948, [ 1] have now

resulted in a text agreed upon between the negotiating parties which is enclosed herewith and which is to be inserted as the Annex immediately

following Article 10 of the Interim Agreement of August 3, 1945. I further understand that the Schedule to the enclosed Annex has been

agreed upon as a substitute for the present "Annex" of the Interim Agreement. It is finally understood that the enclosed Annex and

Schedule will form an integral part of the Interim Agreement of August 3, 1945.

' Not printed. 81939-52 -PT. III- -10

60 Stat. 1935.
Post, p. 2443. 60 Stat. 1938.

2440 60 Stat. 1938.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
I shall be glad to have you inform me whether the Swiss Government understands that the terms of the Annex and of the Schedule resulting from the conversations referred to are as set forth in the enclosure to this note.
If your answer is in the affirmative, the Government of the United States of America will regard the new Annex and Schedule to the Interim Agreement of August 3, 1945 , effective upon the date of your answer in accordance with the provisions of Article 9 of the Agreement.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
J. C. VINCENT
His Excellency Dr. MAX PETITPIERRE, Federal Councilor,
Chief of the Federal Political Department, Bern.
ANNEX

SECTION I

Rights oftransit and stops for nontraffic One or more airlines designated by each of the contracting parties

purposes, etc.

under the conditions provided in this Agreement will enjoy, in the

territory of the other contracting party, rights of transit and of stops for non-traffic purposes, as well as the right of commercial

entry and departure for international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at the points enumerated on each of the routes specified in the Schedule attached.
SECTION II

The air transport facilities available hereunder to the traveling public shall bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such transport.
SECTION III

Fair and equal operation.

There shall be a fair and equal opportunity for the airlines of the contracting parties to operate on any route between their respective territories covered by this Agreement and Annex.

SECTION IV

Operation of trunk services.

In the operation by the airlines of either contracting party of the trunk services described in the present Annex, the interest of the airlines of the other contracting party shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provide on all or part of the same routes.

SECTION V

Adequate capacity.

It is the understanding of both contracting parties that services provided by a designated airline under the present Agreement and

63 STAT. ] SWITZERLAND-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 13, 1949

2441

Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity

adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such

airline is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the

traffic.

The right to embark or disembark on such services interna-

Traffic from third countries.

tional traffic destined for and coming from third countries at a point

or points on the routes specified in the present Annex shall be applied

in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to

which both contracting parties subscribe and shall be subject to the

general principle that capacity should be related to :

(a) traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;

(b) the requirements of through airline operation ; and
(c) the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services.

SECTION VI
It is the intention of both contracting parties that there should labCoornastuilotna.tion for col. be regular and frequent consultation between their respective aeronautical authorities and that there should thereby be close collaboration in the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in the present Agreement and Annex.

SECTION VII
A. The determination of rates in accordance with the following paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels, due regard being paid to all relevant factors, such as cost of operation, reasonable profit, and the rates charged by any other carriers, as well as the characteristics of each service.
B. The rates to be charged by the air carriers of either contracting party between points in the territory of the United States and points in Swiss territory referred to in the attached Schedule shall , consistent with the provisions of the present Agreement and its Annex, be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the contracting parties, who shall act in accordance with their obligations under the present Annex, within the limits of their legal powers.
It is recognized that the determination of rates to be charged by an airline of one contracting party over a segment of the specified route, which segment lies between the territories of the other contracting party and a third country, is a complex question the over-all solution of which cannot be sought through consultation between only the two contracting parties. Pending the acceptance by both contracting parties of any multilateral agreement or recommendations with respect to such rates, the rates to be charged by the designated airlines of the two contracting parties over the route segment involved shall be set in the first instance by agreement between such airlines operating over such route segment, subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the two contracting parties. In case such designated airlines cannot reach agreement or in case the aeronautical

Rates. Post, p. 2443.

2442

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Ante, p. 2440.
Ante, p. 2437. Filing of rates.

authorities of both contracting parties do not approve any rates set by such airlines, the question shall become the subject of consultation between the aeronautical authorities of the two contracting parties. In considering such rates the aeronautical authorities shall have regard particularly to Section IV of this Annex and to the desire of both contracting parties to foster and encourage the development of efficient and economically sound trunk air services by the designated airlines over the specified routes. If the aeronautical authorities cannot reach agreement, both contracting parties shall submit, at the request of either party, the question in dispute to arbitration as provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement.
C. Any rate proposed by the airline or airlines of either contracting

party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of both con-

tracting parties at least thirty ( 30) days before the proposed date of

introduction ; provided that this period of thirty ( 30 ) days may be

Approval by Civil Aeronautics Board.

reduced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties.
D. The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having approved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air

Transport Association ( hereinafter called IATA) for a period of two

years beginning in February 1948, any rate agreements concluded

through this machinery during this period and involving United

States airlines will be subject to approval of the Board . Rate agree-

ments concluded through this machinery will also be subject to the

approval of the aeronautical authorities of Switzerland pursuant to

the principles enunciated in paragraph B above.

E. The contracting parties agree that the procedure described in

paragraphs F, G and H of this Section shall apply :

1 ) if during the period of the Civil Aeronautics Board's approval of the IATA traffic conference machinery, either any specific rate agreement is not approved within a reasonable time by either contracting party or a conference of IATA is unable to agree on a rate, or
2) at any time no IATA machinery is applicable , or 3 ) if either contracting party at any time withdraws or fails to renew its approval of that of the IATA Traffic Conference machinery relevant to this Section.

F. In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates for the transport of persons and property by air on international services and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States, each of the contracting parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such manner as to prevent any rate or rates proposed by one of its airlines of services from the territory of the other contracting party from becoming effective, if in the judgment of the aeronautical authorities of the contracting party whose airline or airlines is or are proposing such rate, that rate is

63 STAT. ] SWITZERLAND AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 13, 1949

2443

unfair or uneconomic. If one of the contracting parties on receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph C above is dissatisfied with the rate proposed by the airline or airlines of the other contracting party, it shall so notify the other contracting party prior to the expiry of the first fifteen ( 15 ) days of the thirty ( 30 ) days referred to, and the contracting parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
In the event that such agreement is reached, each contracting party will exercise its best efforts to put such rate into effect as regards its airline or airlines.
If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty ( 30) day period referred to in paragraph C above, the proposed rate may, unless the aeronautical authorities of the country of the airline concerned see fit to suspend its application , go into effect provisionally pending the settlement of any dispute in accordance with the procedure outlined in paragraph H below.
G. Prior to the time when such power may be conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States, if one of the contracting parties is dissatisfied with any rate proposed by the airline or airlines of either contracting party for services from the territory of one contracting party to a point or points in the territory of the other contracting party, it shall so notify the other prior to the expiry of the first fifteen ( 15 ) days of the thirty (30) day period referred to in paragraph C above, and the contracting parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
In the event that such agreement is reached , each contracting party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its airline or airlines.
It is recognized that if no such agreement can be reached prior to the expiry of such thirty (30 ) days, the contracting party raising the objection to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in question at the rate complained of.
H. When in any case under paragraphs F and G above the aeronautical authorities of the two contracting parties cannot agree within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one contracting party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the airline or airlines of the other contracting party, upon the request of either, both contracting parties shall submit, at the request of either party, the question in dispute to arbitration as provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement.

Ante, p. 2437.

SCHEDULE
1. An airline designated by the Government of the United States of America shall be entitled to operate air services on the air route specified via intermediate points, in both directions, and to make scheduled landings in Switzerland at the points specified in this paragraph :

2444

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
The United States, over a North Atlantic route to Geneva and Zurich and beyond.
2. An airline designated by the Swiss Federal Air Office shall be entitled to operate air services on the air route specified via intermediate points , in both directions, and to make scheduled landings in the United States at the points specified in this paragraph :
Switzerland, over a North Atlantic route via Ireland or the Azores and Newfoundland to New York and Chicago.
3. Points on any of the specified routes may, at the option of the designated airline, be omitted on any or all flights.

The Chief ofthe Swiss Federal Political Department to the American Minister

LE CHEF DU
DÉPARTEMENT POLITIQUE FÉDÉRAL
MONSIEUR LE MINISTRE,

BERNE, le 13 mai 1949.

Par lettre de ce jour, vous avez bien voulu me proposer de substituer un nouveau texte à l'annexe actuelle à l'accord provisoire sur les lignes aériennes entre la Suisse et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique, du 3 août 1945. J'ai pris note que ce texte a fait l'objet de conversations entre représentants des Autorités fédérales suisses et américaines.

J'ai l'honneur de porter à la connaissance de Votre Excellence que le Conseil Fédéral Suisse approuve le texte dont il s'agit et qu'il le considère comme en vigueur dès aujourd'hui, conformément à l'article 9 de l'accord .

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Ministre, l'assurance de ma haute considération.

uhomin

Son Excellence

(Max Petitpierre )

Monsieur JOHN CARTER VINCENT,

Ministre des Etats- Unis d'Amérique, Berne.

Ante, p. 2439. 60 Stat. 1938.

Translation

THE CHIEF OF THE
FEDERAL POLITICAL DEPARTMENT
MR. MINISTER :

BERN, May 13, 1949.

In a letter dated today you were so good as to propose to me that a new text be substituted for the present Annex to the Interim Agreement between the United States of America and Switzerland relating to Air Transport Services, dated August 3, 1945. I have taken note

63 STAT. ] SWITZERLAND--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 13, 1949

2445

of the fact that such text was the subject of conversations between representatives of the Swiss federal Authorities and representatives of the American Authorities.
I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Swiss Federal Council approves the text in question and that it considers it to be in force as of the present date, in accordance with article 9 of the agreement.
Accept, Mr. Minister, the assurances of my high consideration. MAX PETITPIERRE.
(Max Petitpierre) His Excellency
JOHN CARTER VINCENT, Minister of the United States of America, Bern.

60 Stat. 1938.

?

2446

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

May 20, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1931]

Agreement between the United States of America and Ethiopia respecting a mutual aid settlement. Signed at Addis Ababa May 20, 1949; entered into force May 20, 1949.

AGREEMENT ON LEND LEASE SETTLEMENT BY AND BETWEEN ETHIOPIA AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Government of the United States of America and the Imperial Government of Ethiopia,

Having reached an understanding regarding settlement of lend-lease

and reciprocal aid and of financial claims of each Government against

the other Government arising out of World War II ;

Having decided that this settlement shall be complete and final and that no further benefits shall be sought as consideration for lend-lease

or reciprocal aid or for the settlement of claims or other obligations

arising out of the war, except as herein specifically provided ;

Having taken full cognizance of the benefits already received by

each of them in the defeat of their common enemies and having also

57 Stat. 1045.

taken full cognizance of the general obligation assumed by each of them, in Article VII of their Agreement of August 9 , 1943, on the

55 Stat. 31.
22 U.S.C. $411-419; Supp. II, § 412 et seq.

Principles Applying to Mutual Aid under the Act of March 11 , 1941, of the Congress of the United States of America ;
Being desirous of continuing to discuss arrangements for agreed action for the attainment of the economic objectives referred to in Article VII of the Agreement of August 9, 1943 ;

Have agreed as follows :

ARTICLE 1

"Lend-Lease article."
55 Stat. 31. 22 U.S.C. §§411-419; Supp II, § 412 et seq.

The term "Lend-Lease article" as used in this agreement means any article transferred by the Government of the United States of America under the Act of March 11, 1941 :
(a) to the Imperial Government of Ethiopia, or

(b) to any other government and retransferred to the Imperial Government of Ethiopia.

ARTICLE 2

Methods of payment by Ethiopia.

(a ) The Imperial Government of Ethiopia will pay to the Government of the United States of America the sum of $200,000 (two hundred thousand U. S. Dollars) by any of the following methods , or any combination thereof, designated by the Government of the United States of America :

(i) by providing for delivery to the Government of the United States of America real property and improvements

63 STAT. ] ETHIOPIA- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-MAY 20, 1949

2447

to real property in Ethiopia as selected and determined by agreement between the two Governments ; or

(ii ) by providing against request Ethiopian dollars for expenditure by the Government of the United States of America, or by such foundation, person or organization as the United States may designate, in accordance with agreements to be reached between the two Governments for carrying out educational and cultural programs of benefit to the two countries ; or

(iii) by providing against request Ethiopian dollars for the payment of any or all expenditures in Ethiopia of the Government ofthe United States and its agencies ; or

(iv) by paying, within five ( 5 ) years and ninety ( 90) days after the date of this Agreement, in United States dollars the difference between $200,000 and the United States dollar value

of the payments made under sub-sections ( i ) , ( ii ) , and ( iii ) above during the five (5 ) years following the date of this Agreement.

(b) The exchange rate applicable to payments under the provisions of paragraph (a ) of this Article shall be that established by the Inter-

Exchange rate.

national Monetary Fund which is in effect at the time of payment, provided that, if no such rate exists, the rate shall be that rate most favorable to the Government of the United States of America which was

used in any official transaction of the Imperial Government of Ethi-

opia with any party in the preceding twelve months' period. (c) The Imperial Government of Ethiopia agrees to use its best
efforts to deliver without undue delay to the Government of the United

Delivery of real property, etc.

States of America any real property or improvements to real property

which have been selected and determined by representatives of the two

Governments , pursuant to paragraph ( a) (i ) above. Representatives

of the Government of the United States of America may, at their

discretion, conduct discussion directly with property owners and con-

tractors regarding the acquisition of such property or improvements

by the Imperial Government of Ethiopia for delivery to the Government of the United States of America. But no such discussions shall

give rise to any obligations whatsoever on the part of the Imperial Government of Ethiopia.

ARTICLE 3

(a) The Imperial Government of Ethiopia hereby acquires full title, without qualification as to disposition or use, to all lend-lease articles transferred to the Imperial Government of Ethiopia, except

Titleto lend -lease articles.

lend-lease articles now in the possession or control of the Armed Forces

of the Imperial Government of Ethiopia. (b) The Government of the United States of America hereby ac-
quires full title, without qualification as to disposition or use, to all articles transferred to the Government of the United States of America

Title to articles
transferred to U. S. Government.

by the Imperial Ethiopian Government under reciprocal aid.

2448

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

ARTICLE 4

57 Stat. 1044.
Right of recovery of defense articles by U.S. Government.

Under Article V of the Agreement of August 9, 1943, the Government of the United States of America has the right to recover at the end of the present emergency, as determined by the President of the

United States of America , such defense articles transferred under that Agreement as have not been destroyed, lost, or consumed and as shall

be determined by the President to be of use to the United States of

America. Although the Government of the United States of America

does not intend to exercise generally this right of recapture, the Gov-

ernment of the United States of America expressly reserves such right

with respect to lend -lease articles of types essentially or exclusively for

use in war or warlike exercises now in the possession or control

of the Armed Forces of the Imperial Government of Ethiopia ; and

the Imperial Government of Ethiopia hereby agrees that the Govern-

ment of the United States of America at any time hereafter may exer-

cise this right of recapture with respect to lend-lease articles of types

essentially or exclusively for use in war or warlike exercises now in

the possession or control of the Armed Forces of the Imperial Gov-

i

ernment of Ethiopia which , as of the date upon which notice requesting

return is communicated to the Imperial Government of Ethiopia, have

not been destroyed, lost, or consumed .

ARTICLE 5

Transfer of arms, munitions, etc.

The Imperial Government of Ethiopia will not transfer or dispose

of lend-lease articles in the categories of arms, munitions and other

lethal weapons now in the possession or control of its Armed Forces

to any third country without the prior consent of the Government of the United States of America.

ARTICLE 6

Obligation for silver. Nothing in this Agreement affects the obligation of the Imperial Government of Ethiopia in connection with silver transferred to it by the Government of the United States of America under lend-lease.

ARTICLE 7 ..

Financial claims.

Financial claims between the two Governments arising out of exist-

ing arrangements, where the liability for payment has heretofore

been acknowledged and the methods of computation mutually agreed,

are not covered by this settlement as they will be settled in accordance with such arrangements. Likewise claims submitted in accordance

with the practice whereby one Government espouses a claim of one of

its nationals and presents it through diplomatic channels to the other clWaaimisv. er ofcertain Government are not covered by this settlement. In consideration of
the mutual undertakings described in this Agreement, and with the

objective of arriving at as comprehensive a settlement as possible, all other financial claims whatsoever of one Government against the other

which ( i ) have heretofore arisen , or hereafter arise out of lend-lease

63 STAT. ) ETHIOPIA- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- MAY 20, 1949

2449

or reciprocal aid, or ( ii ) otherwise arose on or after September 3, 1939, and prior to September 2, 1945, out of or incidental to the conduct of World War II, and which are not otherwise dealt with in this Agreement, are hereby waived, and neither Government will hereafter raise or pursue any such claims against the other.

ARTICLE 8
The Government of the United States of America and the Imperial Government of Ethiopia reaffirm their adherence to Articles IV and VII of their Agreement dated August 9, 1943, and in connection with Article VII, agree to confer together with other governments in the near future in order to bring about the expansion, by appropriate international and domestic measures of production, employment, and the exchange and consumption of goods, which are the material foundations of the liberty and welfare of all peoples ; the elimination of all forms of discriminatory treatment in international commerce ; and the reduction of tariffs and other trade barriers. Pending such a conference, the two Governments declare it to be their policy to avoid the adoption of new measures affecting international trade, payments, or investments which would prejudice the objectives of such a conference. Furthermore, the Government of the United States of America and the Imperial Government of Ethiopia agree to afford to each other adequate opportunity for consultation regarding measures falling within the scope of this paragraph.
This Agreement shall enter into force on the day it is signed . Signed in duplicate at Addis Ababa this Twentieth day of May, nineteen hundred and forty-nine.

Conferences. 57 Stat. 1044, 1045.
Entry into foros.

pabom lan

17W



(

 





FOR THE IMPERIAL GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
DERESSA FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DONALD F BIGELOW
Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America at Addis Ababa

2450

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

March 31, 1949 [T.I.A.. 1932]

Agreement between the United States of America and Panama respecting air transport services. Signed at Panamá March 31 , 1949; entered into force April 14 , 1949. And agreements effected by exchanges of notes signed at Panamá March 31 , 1949 ; entered into force April 14, 1949.

AVIATION AGREEMENT BE- CONVENIO SOBRE AVIACION

TWEEN THE UNITED ENTRE LOS ESTADOS

STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF PAN-

UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y LA REPUBLICA DE PANAMA

AMA

PREAMBLE :

PREAMBULO :

WHEREAS the Governments of POR CUANTO los Gobiernos de

61 Stat. , Pt . 2, p. 1180.

the United States of America and los Estados Unidos de América y of the Republic of Panamá are de la República de Panamá son signatories to the International signatarios del Convenio de Civil Aviation Convention [ ] Aviación Civil Internacional, que
which was formulated by the emanó de la Conferencia InterInternational Civil Aviation Con- nacional de Aviación Civil cele-

ference in Chicago in 1944 ; and

brada en la ciudad de Chicago, Estados Unidos de América, en

el año de 1944 ;

Tocumen National Airport.

WHEREAS the Government of POR CUANTO el Gobierno de la

the Republic of Panamá has con- República de Panamá ha cons-

structed a modern airport in its truído un aeropuerto moderno

territory, known as Tocumen Na- en su territorio , conocido con el

tional Airport, which is located nombre de Aeropuerto Nacional

approximately fifteen miles from de Tocumen, el cual se encuentra

the border of Panamá City and ubicado a unas quince millas de

the Canal Zone, and is now serving distancia del límite de la ciudad

international civil aviation ; and de Panamá y de la Zona del Canal,

y que en la actualidad da servicio

a la aviación civil international ;

WHEREAS the utilization of POR CUANTO la utilización del

Tocumen National Airport by air- Aeropuerto Nacional de Tocumen

lines of the United States of por las líneas aéreas de los Estados

America and of the Republic of Unidos de América y de la Re-

Panamá will further the bonds pública de Panamá afianzaría más

of friendship and cooperation los lazos de amistad y cooperación

which now exist between the two que hoy existen entre los dos

Governments ; and

Gobiernos ;

WHEREAS it is believed that POR CUANTO se considera que Tocumen National Airport , if cer- el Aeropuerto Nacional de Tocu-

1 Dated Dec. 7, 1944.

63 STAT.] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 31, 1949

2451

tain provisions are made, may men, mediante ciertos arreglos ,

function as a civil airport serving puede funcionar para servir como the Canal Zone as well as the aeropuerto civil a la República de

Republic of Panamá, thereby ben- Panamá así como a la Zona del

efitting both the Republic of Canal, y en consecuencia benefi-

Panamá and the United States of ciaría tanto a la República de America because of its relation to Panamá como a los Estados Uni-

the Canal Zone ; and

dos de América por la relación de

éste con la Zona del Canal ;

WHEREAS the Governments of POR CUANTO los Gobiernos de

the United States of America and los Estados Unidos de América y of the Republic of Panamá con- de la República de Panamá, para sider appropriate, for a clear el mejor entendimiento en cuanto understanding concerning the op- a la prestación de los servicios erations of the international civil civiles aéreos internacionales en el airline services at Tocumen Na- Aeropuerto Nacional de Tocumen,

tional Airport, the conclusion of a consideran conveniente la celebra-

bilateral air agreement ; and

ción de un convenio bilateral sobre

aviación ; y

WHEREAS the President of the POR CUANTO el Presidente de United States of America and the los Estados Unidos de América

President of the Republic of y el Presidente de la República

Panamá, desiring to enter into de Panamá, deseosos de acordar

appropriate engagements to these arreglos pertinentes con tales fines,

ends, have designated for this pur- han designado con ese objeto como

pose as their representatives :

sus representantes a:

His Excellency Monnett B. Su Excelencia Monnett B. Davis,

Davis , Ambassador Extraordinary Embajador Extraordinario y Ple-

and Plenipotentiary of the United nipotenciario de los Estados Uni-

States of America to the Republic dos de América en la República de

of Panamá, and

Panamá , y

His Excellency Licentiate Igna- Su Excelencia Licenciado Ignacio Molino, Jr. , Minister of Foreign cio Molino, Jr. , Ministro de

Relations of the Republic of Relaciones Exteriores de la RepúPanamá, who, having communi- blica de Panamá, quienes, después cated their respective full powers de haberse comunicado mutuato each other, which have been mente sus respectivos plenos

found to be in good and due form, poderes, que fueron hallados en have agreed upon the following: debida forma, han convenido en
lo siguiente:

ARTICLE I

ARTICULO I

Each Contracting Party grants Cada Parte Contratante conto the other Contracting Party cede a la otra Parte Contratante the rights as specified in the Annex los derechos especificados en el hereto necessary for establishing Anexo adjunto, necesarios para the international civil air routes establecer las rutas y servicios and services therein described, aéreos civiles internacionales deswhether such services be inau- critos en dicho Anexo, ya sea que

Rights. Post, p. 2466.

2452

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

gurated immediately or at a later tales servicios sean inaugurados

date at the option of the Con- inmediatamente o en fecha pos-

tracting Party to whom the rights terior, a opción de la Parte

are granted.

Contratante a la cual se otorgan

dichos derechos .

ARTICLE II

ARTICULO II

Inauguration of Each of the air services so de- Cada uno de los servicios aéreos services.
scribed may be placed in operation descritos en el Anexo podrá ini-

as soon as the Contracting Party ciar sus operaciones tan pronto to whom the rights have been como la Parte Contratante a la granted by Article I to designate cual se ha concedido por el

an airline or airlines for the route Artículo I el derecho de designar concerned has authorized an air- una línea aérea o líneas aéreas

Post, p. 2455.

line for such route, and the Con- para la ruta respectiva, haya autracting Party granting the rights torizado una línea aérea para tal shall, subject to Article VI here- ruta, y la Parte Contratante que of, be bound to give the appropri- otorga los derechos estará obligada, ate operating permission to the con sujeción a lo dispuesto en el airline or airlines concerned ; pro- Artículo VI de este Convenio , a vided that the airlines so desig- conceder el permiso de operaciones

nated may be required to qualify pertinente a la línea aérea o before the competent aeronautical líneas aéreas respectivas ; siendo authorities of the Contracting entendido que a las líneas aéreas

Party granting the rights under designadas, antes de ser autorithe laws and regulations normally zadas para empezar sus opera-

applied by these authorities be- ciones, podrá exigírseles que se hafore being permitted to engage in biliten ante las autoridades aero-

the operations contemplated by náuticas competentes de la Parte this agreement ; and provided that Contratante que otorga los dein areas of hostilities or of mili- rechos de acuerdo con las leyes y tary occupation , or in areas af- reglamentos normalmente apli-

fected thereby, such operation cados por dichas autoridades, y

shall be subject to the approval que tales operaciones estarán su-

of the competent authorities.

jetas a la aprobación de las au-

toridades competentes, en áreas de hostilidades o de ocupación

militar o en áreas afectadas por las mismas.

ARTICLE III

ARTICULO III

Prevention of discriminatory practices,

In order to prevent discrimina-

Con el fin de impedir prácticas

etc.

tory practices and to assure equal- discriminatorias y para asegurar la

ity of treatment, both Contracting igualdad de trato , las Partes Con-

Parties agree that :

tratantes acuerdan :

Charges for use of (a) Each of the Contracting (a) Cada una de las Partes Confacilities.
Parties may impose or permit to tratantes podrá imponer o per-

be imposed just and reasonable mitir que se impongan tasas justas

charges for the use of public air- y razonables por el uso de aero-

ports and other facilities under its puertos públicos y las demás obras

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 31, 1949

2453

control. Each of the Contracting y servicios bajo su autoridad . Sin Parties agrees, however, that these embargo, cada una de las Partes charges shall not be higher than Contratantes conviene en que

would be paid for the use of such estas tasas no serán mayores que

airports and facilities by its na- las que serían pagadas por el uso

tional aircraft engaged in similar de dichos aeropuertos y obras y

international services .

servicios por sus aeronaves na-

cionales dedicadas a servicios in-

ternacionales similares .

(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and

Customs duties, (b) El combustible, los aceites etc., for fuel, lubricat
ing oils, and spare

spare parts introduced into areas lubricantes y las piezas de repuesto parts.

with respect to which one Con- importados por una Parte Con-

tracting Party has jurisdiction by tratante o por sus nacionales a las

the other Contracting Party or its áreas sobre las cuales la otra Parte

nationals, and intended solely for Contratante tiene jurisdicción para

use by aircraft of the airlines of uso exclusivo de las aeronaves de

such other Contracting Party las líneas aéreas de tal Parte Con-

shall, with respect to the imposi- tratante, estarán sujetos al mismo

tion of customs duties, inspection tratamiento que se aplique a las

fees or other national duties or líneas aéreas nacionales y a las

charges by the Contracting Party líneas aéreas de la nación más

having jurisdiction of such areas , favorecida , en lo relativo a la im-

be accorded the same treatment posición de derechos de aduana,

as that applying to national air- derechos de inspección u otros

lines and to airlines of the most derechos o gravámenes nacionales

favored nation.

aplicados por la Parte Contratante

que tenga jurisdicción sobre tales

áreas.

(c) The fuel, lubricating oils , (c) El combustible, los aceites

spare parts, regular equipment and lubricantes, las piezas de repuesto ,

aircraft stores retained on board el equipo normal y los bastimentos civil aircraft of the airlines of one de aeronaves que se retienen a

Contracting Party authorized to bordo de aeronaves civiles de las

operate the routes and services líneas aéreas de una Parte Con-

described in the Annex shall, upon tratante autorizadas para explotar

arriving in or leaving the areas las rutas y servicios descritos en el

with respect to which the other Anexo, serán exonerados, a su

Contracting Party has jurisdic- llegada a las áreas bajo la juristion, be exempt from customs, in- dicción de la otra Parte Contra-

spection fees or similar duties or tante o a su salida de las mismas,

charges, even though such supplies de derechos de aduana, derechos

be used or consumed by such air- de inspección u otros derechos o

craft on flights in those areas.

gravámenes similares, aún cuando tales artículos sean usados o con-

sumidos por dichos aviones en vuelos dentro de dichas áreas.

ARTICLE IV

ARTICULO IV

Certificates of airworthiness , Los certificados de aeronavega- Certificates of airworthiness, etc.
certificates of competency and bilidad , los certificados de com-

2454

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Post, p. 2466 .

licenses issued or rendered valid by petencia y las licencias expedidas

one Contracting Party and still in o reconocidas como válidos por

force shall be recognized as valid una Parte Contratante, que estén by the other Contracting Party for todavía en vigencia, serán reconothe purpose of operating the routes cidos como válidos por la otra

and services described in the Parte Contratante para el efecto

Annex. Each Contracting Party de explotar las rutas y servicios reserves the right, however, to descritos en el Anexo . Cada Parte

refuse to recognize, for the purpose Contratante, sin embargo, para of flight above areas with respect los efectos del vuelo sobre las

to which it has jurisdiction, cer- áreas bajo su jurisdicción, se re-

tificates of competency and li- serva el derecho de rehusar el censes granted to its own nationals reconocimiento de certificados de

by another State.

competencia y licencias expedidas a favor de sus propios nacionales por otro Estado .

ARTICLE V

ARTICULO V

Laws and regula-

tions.

(a) Subject to Article XVII (a) Con sujeción a lo esti-

Post, p. 2461.

hereof, the laws and regulations of pulado en el Artículo XVII, las

one Contracting Party relating to leyes y reglamentos de una Parte

the admission to or departure Contratante relativos a la admi-

from areas with respect to which sión o salida de aeronaves dedica-

it has jurisdiction of aircraft en- das a la navegación aérea interna-

gaged in international air naviga- cional , en áreas bajo su jurisdic-

tion, or to the operation and navi- ción , o relativos a las operaciones

gation of such aircraft while with- y navegación de tales aeronaves in those areas, shall be applied to mientras se hallen dentro de

the aircraft of the airlines desig- dichas áreas, serán aplicados a las

nated by the other Contracting aeronaves de las líneas aéreas

Party, and shall be complied with designadas por la otra Parte Con-

by such aircraft upon entering or tratante, y se cumplirán por tales

departing from or while within aeronaves al entrar o salir o

those areas.

mientras permanezcan dentro de

las áreas susodichas .

(b) Subject to Article XVII (b) Con sujeción a lo estipulado

hereof, the laws and regulations of en el Artículo XVII , las leyes y

one Contracting Party as to the reglamentos de una Parte Contraadmission to or departure from tante, relativos a la admisión o

areas with respect to which it has salida de pasajeros , tripulación o

jurisdiction of passengers , crew or carga de aeronaves, en áreas sobre cargo of aircraft, such as regula- las cuales tiene jurisdicción, tales

tions relating to entry, clearance, como los reglamentos relativos a

immigration, passports, customs, entrada, despacho , inmigración,

and quarantine shall be complied pasaportes, aduanas y cuarentewith by or on behalf of such pas- nas, serán cumplidos por los pasasengers, crew or cargo of the other jeros y tripulaciones de la otra

Contracting Party upon entrance Parte Contratante o en su nombre,

into or departure from, or while así como respecto a la carga, al

within those areas.

entrar en dichas áreas, al salir de

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 31 , 1949

2455

ellas , o mientras permanezcan dentro de las mismas .

ARTICLE VI

ARTICULO VI

Each Contracting Party re-

Cada Parte Contratante se re-

Withholding or rev ocation of exercise of

rights.

serves the right to withhold or serva el derecho de no otorgar o

revoke the exercise of the rights de revocar a una línea aérea despecified in the Annex to this signada por la otra Parte Contra-

Post ,p. 2466

Agreement by an airline desig- tante el ejercicio de los derechos

nated by the other Contracting que se especifican en el Anexo del Party in the event that it is not presente Convenio en el caso de satisfied that substantial owner- no estar satisfecha de que la

ship and effective control of such propiedad sustancial y el dominio airline are vested in nationals of efectivo de tal línea aérea están

the other Contracting Party, or en manos de nacionales de la otra in case of failure by such airline Parte Contratante, o en el caso de

to comply with the laws and que dicha línea aérea deje de cum-

regulations referred to in Article plir las leyes y reglamentos a que V hereof, or otherwise to fulfill hace referencia el Artículo V del the conditions under which the presente Convenio, o de que en

rights are granted in accordance cualquier otra forma deje de cum-

with this Agreement and its An- plir las condiciones bajo las cuales

nex.

se conceden los derechos de con-

formidad con este Convenio y su Anexo .

ARTICLE VII

ARTICULO VII

The Contracting Parties agree

Las Partes Contratantes acuer-

Registration of Agreement.

that this Agreement and all con- dan que el presente Convenio y tracts connected therewith shall todos los contratos con él rela-

be registered with the Interna- cionados , serán registrados en la

tional Civil Aviation Organiza- Organización de Aviación Civil

tion.

Internacional .

ARTICLE VIII

ARTICULO VIII

Continuance in force Existing rights and privileges Los derechos y privilegios exis- of existing rights and
relating to air transport services tentes relativos a servicios de privileges.

which may have been granted transportes aéreos que hayan sido

previously by either of the Con- previamente otorgados por alguna tracting Parties to the benefit of de las Partes Contratantes para an airline of the other Contracting beneficio de una línea aérea de la Party shall continue in force otra Parte Contratante, continua-

according to their terms .

rán en vigencia de acuerdo con sus términos .

ARTICLE IX Either of the Contracting Par-

ARTICULO IX Cualquiera de las Partes Con-

ties may at any time notify the tratantes podrá en cualquier other of its intention to termi- momento notificar a la otra Parte
nate the present Agreement. Such su intención de dar por terminado a notice shall be sent simulta- este Convenio . Tal aviso deberá

Termination .

2456

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

neously to the International Civil ser enviado simultáneamente a la Aviation Organization . In the Organización de Aviación Civil event such communication is Internacional. En el caso de

made, this Agreement shall ter- hacerse tal notificación este Con-

minate one year after the date venio terminará después de un of receipt of the notice to termi- año de la fecha de recibo del nate, unless by agreement between aviso, a menos que las Partes the Contracting Parties the com- Contratantes acuerden retirarlo munication under reference is antes de la expiración de ese withdrawn before the expiration término . Si la otra Parte Conof that time. If the other Con- tratante dejare de acusar recibo ,

tracting Party fails to acknowl- se considerará el aviso como reciedge receipt , notice shall be bido catorce ( 14 ) días después deemed as having been received de su recibo por la Organización 14 days after its receipt by the de Aviación Civil Internacional . International Civil Aviation Or-

ganization .

ARTICLE X

ARTICULO X

Modification of

routes or conditions.

In the event either of the Con- En el caso de que cualquiera de

tracting Parties considers it desir- las Partes Contratantes deseare

able to modify the routes or condi- modificar las rutas o condiciones

Post, p. 2466.

tions set forth in the attached establecidas en el Anexo , podrá Annex, it may request consulta- promover consultas entre las au-

tion between the competent au- toridades competentes de ambas thorities of both Contracting Par- Partes Contratantes , debiendo inities, such consultation to begin ciarse dichas consultas dentro de

within a period of sixty days from un plazo de sesenta días, a partir the date of the request. When de la fecha de la solicitud . Cuando these authorities mutually agree dichas autoridades acuerden muon new or revised conditions af- tuamente condiciones nuevas

fecting the Annex, their recom- revisadas que afecten el Anexo , mendations on the matter will sus recomendaciones entrarán en

come into effect after they have vigencia después de que hayan

been confirmed by an exchange of sido confirmadas por un cambio

diplomatic notes.

de notas diplomáticas.

ARTICLE XI

ARTICULO XI

Effect offuture mul-

tilateral convention.

If a general multilateral air Si entra en vigor con respecto a

transport convention accepted by las Partes Contratantes una Con-

both Contracting Parties enters vención multilateral sobre trans-

into force with respect to both porte aéreo aceptada por las ParContracting Parties, the present tes Contratantes , el presente Con-

Agreement shall be amended so as venio será modificado de manera

to conform with the provisions of que se conforme a las estipula-

such Convention.

ciones de tal Convención .

ARTICLE XII

ARTICULO XII

Settlement of dis-

putes.

Except as otherwise provided in Salvo estipulación contraria de

Post, p. 2466.

this Agreement or its Annex, any este Convenio o de su Anexo , cual-

dispute between the Contracting quier divergencia entre las Partes

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 31, 1949

2457

Parties relative to the interpreta- Contratantes relativa a la inter-

tion or application of this Agree- pretación o aplicación de este

ment or its Annex, which cannot Convenio o de su Anexo , que no

be settled through consultation, pueda arreglarse por medio de conshall be submitted for an advisory sultas, será sometido , para un report to a tribunal of three arbi- informe consultivo , a un tribunal

Tribunal of arbitrators.

trators, one to be named by each de tres árbitros, uno nombrado por

Contracting Party, and the third cada Parte Contratante y el terto be agreed upon by the two cero por los dos árbitros así

arbitrators so chosen, provided escogidos, con la condición de que that such third arbitrator shall not este tercer árbitro no sea nacional

be a national of either Contracting de ninguna de las Partes ConParty Each of the Contracting tratantes. Cada una de las Partes Parties shail designate an arbi- Contratantes designará un árbitro trator within two months of the dentro de los dos meses siguientes

Designation.

date of delivery by either party to a la presentación por una Parte a the other party of a diplomatic la otra de una nota diplomática note requesting arbitration of a en la cual se solicite el arbitraje dispute ; and the third arbitrator de la disputa ; y el tercer árbitro shall be agreed upon within one será escogido en el término de un month after such period of two mes después de dicho período de months. If the third arbitrator dos meses. Si no se llegare a un is not agreed upon, within the time acuerdo sobre el tercer árbitro limitation indicated , the vacancy dentro del término indicado , la thereby created shall be filled by vacante así creada será llenada the appointment of a person , mediante designación de una perdesignated by the President of the sona escogida por el Presidente del Council of the International Civil Consejo de la Organización de Aviation Organization, from a Aviación Civil Internacional, de la panel of arbitral personnel main- nómina de árbitros que se mantained in accordance with the tiene de acuerdo con la práctica practice of the International Civil de la Organización de Aviación Aviation Organization . The ex- Civil International . Las autoriecutive authorities of the Con- dades ejecutivas de las Partes Contracting Parties will use their best tratantes procurarán, dentro de efforts under the powers available las facultades de que disponen, to them to put into effect the hacer efectiva la opinión expresada opinion expressed in any such ad- en tal informe consultivo . Cada visory report. A moiety of the Parte pagará la mitad de los expenses of the arbitral tribunal gastos del tribunal . shall be borne by each party.

Expenses.

ARTICLE XIII Changes made by either Con-

ARTICULO XIII Las modificaciones que haga ulCehdarnoguetess.in sched-

tracting Party in the routes de- cualquiera de las Partes Contrascribed in the schedules attached, tantes en las rutas descritas en except those which change the los itinerarios anexos , excepto points served by these airlines in aquellas que cambien los puntos areas with respect to which the servidos por estas líneas aéreas en other Contracting Party has juris- las áreas sobre las cuales la otra

2458

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Post, p. 2466.

diction, shall not be considered as Parte tiene jurisdicción, no serán modifications of the Annex . The considerades como modificaciones

aeronautical authorities of either del Anexo . Por lo tanto , las

Contracting Party may therefore autoridades aeronáuticas de cualproceed unilaterally to make such quiera de las Partes Contratantes

changes , provided , however, that pueden proceder unilateralmente a notice of any change is given with- efectuar tales cambios , siempre

out delay to the aeronautical que el aviso de cualquier cambio

authorities of the other Contract- se dé sin demora a las autoridades

ing Party .

aeronáuticas de la otra Parte Con-

tratante .

If such other aeronautical au- Si estas autoridades aeronáuti-

: Post, p. 2467.

thorities find that, having regard cas encontraren que, habida cuenta to the principles set forth in Sec- de los principios establecidos en la tion VII of the Annex to the Sección VII del Anexo al presente present Agreement, interests of Convenio, los intereses de su línea their air carrier or carriers are o líneas aéreas se perjudicarían con prejudiced by the carriage by the el hecho de que la línea o líneas air carrier or carriers of the first aéreas de la primera Parte ConContracting Party of traffic be- tratante establezcan tránsito entre tween areas with respect to which áreas sobre las cuales tiene juristhe second Contracting Party has dicción la segunda Parte Contrajurisdiction and the new point in tante y el punto nuevo en áreas areas with respect to which the bajo jurisdicción de un tercer país , third country has jurisdiction, the las autoridades de las dos Partes authorities of the two Contracting Contratantes se consultarán con Parties shall consult with a view la mira de llegar a un arreglo to arriving at a satisfactory agree- satisfactorio . ment.

ARTICLE XIV

ARTICULO XIV

U.8. civil aviation The Government of the United El Gobierno de los Estados mission.

Post, p. 2478.

States of America will supply, Unidos de América conviene en

subject to the availability of proporcionar una Misión de Aerosuitable personnel and appropri- náutica Civil para que preste su

ated funds for the purpose, a civil cooperación al Gobierno de Panaaviation mission to aid the Gov- má en el desarrollo de su avia-

ernment of the Republic ofPanamá ción civil, así como el asesora-

in the development of its civil miento técnico, siempre que el

aviation, including technical as- Gobierno de la República de

sistance, if such a mission is re- Panamá así lo solicite y que el quested by the Government of Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

Panamá. The terms and condi- tenga para ello personal idóneo y

tions concerning the provision and fondos disponibles . Las especioperation of such a mission will be ficaciones y condiciones para el

determined by an exchange of suministro y funcionamiento de notes between the Government of tal Misión se determinarán por

the United States and the Gov- medio de un canje de notas entre

ernment of Panamá.

los Gobiernos de los Estados

Unidos y de Panamá .

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES--MAR. 31, 1949

2459

The Government of the United

El Gobierno de los Estados Sanitation at Tocumen National Airport.

States of America will render Unidos de América proporcionará

without cost to the Government sin costo al Gobierno de la Re-

of the Republic of Panamá such pública de Panamá, el consejo technical advice with respect to técnico que el Gobierno de Panasanitation at Tocumen National má solicite sobre medidas de

Airport as may be requested by saneamiento y sanidad en el Aero-

the Government of Panamá.

puerto Nacional de Tocumen.

The Government of the United El Gobierno de los Estados

States of America will make avail- Unidos de América facilitará un

Communications cable .
Post, p. 2471.

able a certain communications cable de comunicaciones para uso

cable for use in connection with en conexión con las operaciones

operations at Tocumen National de comunicaciones en el Aero-

Airport, Panamá City, and the puerto Nacional de Tocumen, en

Canal Zone, according to terms la ciudad de Panamá y en la Zona

and conditions concerning the del Canal, de acuerdo con las

installation, operation and main- estipulaciones y condiciones rela-

tenance of this cable for commer- tivas a la instalación, uso y cial as well as official use, which mantenimiento de este cable, para

will be determined by an exchange la prestación del servicio tanto

of notes entered into this day oficial como comercial, las cuales

between the Government of the se determinarán en canje de notas

United States of America and the efectuado hoy entre los Gobiernos

Government of the Republic of de los Estados Unidos de América

Panamá .

y de la República de Panamá.

ARTICLE XV It is recognized by both Govern-

ARTICULO XV Ambos Gobiernos reconocen que

Air traffic control.

ments that increasing traffic of el creciente tránsito de aeronaves

commercial, private and military comerciales, particulares y miliaircraft, which presently operate tares, que actualmente operan

from seven airports and seaplane desde siete aeropuertos y bases de

bases located in close proximity on hidroaviones ubicados en lugares

the Isthmus of Panamá, requires a muy próximos entre sí en el Istmo

coordinated system of air traffic de Panamá, requiere un sistema de control in the interests of flight dirección coordinada de tránsito

safety .

aéreo , en beneficio de la seguridad

del vuelo .

It is therefore agreed that there Por lo tanto, se conviene en que airU."niform rules ofthe

shall be consultation between the se celebren consultas entre las au-

appropriate authorities of both toridades pertinentes de ambos Governments for the purpose of Gobiernos, con la mira de estableestablishing by mutual agreement cer, de mutuo acuerdo, reglamenuniform rules of the air and pro- tos uniformes de navegación aérea cedures for the provision of air y procedimientos para el establecitraffic control services and there miento de servicios de dirección

shall be frequent consultations del tránsito aéreo . Se conviene, thereafter concerning the imple- además, que en adelante se celementation of such regulations. brarán consultas frecuentes rela-

tivas al cumplimiento de tales reglamentos.

2460

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

ARTICLE XVI

ARTICULO XVI

U. S. assistance in transmission of mes-
sages.

It is recognized by both Governments that commercial air opera tions require adequate radio facili-

Ambos Gobiernos reconocen que las operaciones aéreas comerciales requieren instalaciones adecuadas

ties and personnel for the trans- y personal competente en cuanto mission of air-ground-air messages a radio-comunicaciones para la and point to point messages . The transmisión de mensajes del aire a Government of the United States la tierra y viceversa y mensajes

of America agrees to assist in the de lugar a lugar. El Gobierno de provision of this essential service los Estados Unidos de América by relaying authorized air-ground- conviene en cooperar a la pres-

air and point to point messages tación de este servicio esencial, which are received by its civil air transmitiendo mensajes autori-

communications station in the zados del aire a la tierra y viceCanal Zone to the air communica- versa, y de lugar a lugar, que sean

tions center at Tocumen National recibidos por su estación civil de Airport by means of the cable comunicaciones aéreas en la Zona communications link to be estab- del Canal, hasta el centro de lished . The civil air communica- comunicaciones aéreas en el Aero-

tions station in the Canal Zone puerto Nacional de Tocumen, por

will also transmit such messages medio del cable de comunicaciones relayed to it from the air commu- que será instalado. La estación nications center at Tocumen Na- civil de comunicaciones aéreas en

tional Airport. This service will la Zona del Canal trasmitirá

be provided as long as the civil air además los mensajes semejantes communications station is in oper- que le sean enviados desde el ation in the Canal Zone or until centro de comunicaciones aéreas

this agreement is terminated , or en el Aeropuerto Nacional de suspended , whichever occurs soon- Tocumen . Este servicio será

est, and it is agreed that United suministrado mientras dicha estaStates aircraft and United States ción civil de comunicaciones aéreas

airlines will be permitted the use funcione en la Zona del Canal o of this service as long as it may be hasta tanto se termine o se

provided.

suspenda este Convenio según la anterioridad de estos casos, y se

conviene en que por el tiempo que

este servicio sea ofrecido, les será

permitido usarlo a las aeronaves de los Estados Unidos ya las

líneas aéreas de los Estados

Coordination of operations.

Unidos . It is also recognized that co- Se reconoce además , que es
ordination of operations between necesaria la coordinación de operathe air communications center at ciones entre el centro de comunica-

Tocumen National Airport and ciones aéreas en el Aeropuerto

the air communications stations Nacional de Tocumen y las estanow operating in the Canal Zone is ciones de comunicaciones aéreas required in order to avoid radio que actualmente funcionan en la interference which might endanger Zona del Canal, a fin de evitar las the safety of aircraft in flight. interferencias de radiotransmisión

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 31 , 1949

2461

Therefore, both Governments agree que pongan en peligro la seguridad that there shall be frequent con- de las aeronaves en vuelo . Por lo sultation between the appropriate tanto, ambos Gobiernos convienen

authorities of their respective com- que habrá consultas frecuentes munications centers for the pur- entre las autoridades pertinentes pose of reaching mutually satisfac- de sus respectivos centros de

tory accords concerning their comunicaciones , con el objeto de respective scope of operations, the llegar a acuerdos mutuamente

use of radio frequencies , other operational problems.

and satisfactorios relativos al alcance de sus respectivas operaciones, al uso de frecuencias de radiotrans-

misión y a los demás problemas de funcionamiento .

ARTICLE XVII

ARTICULO XVII

In order to facilitate the move- A fin de facilitar el movimiento
ment of passengers , cargo, and de pasajeros, carga y correo que mail arriving at Tocumen Na- lleguen al Aeropuerto Nacional de tional Airport destined to the Tocumen con destino a la Zona del Canal Zone, the Government of Canal, el Gobierno de la Rethe Republic of Panamá agrees to pública de Panamá conviene en furnish to the Government of the suministrar al Gobierno de los

etcC.o,nattroTlo, ciunsmpeenctNioan, tional Airport.

United States of America free of Estados Unidos de América, libre charge the necessary and adequate de costo , el espacio y local necesaspace and housing for the exercise rios y adecuados para efectuar la

of control , inspection and proces- dirección, examen y despacho de sing of such passengers, cargo and dichos pasajeros, carga y correo mail at Tocumen National Air- en el Aeropuerto Nacional de port. The Government of the Tocumen . El Gobierno de los

United States of America agrees Estados Unidos de América con-

that its officials engaged in these viene en que sus funcionarios en-

functions will perform them only cargados de estos trámites los

in such space and housing to be llevarán a cabo solamente en el

furnished by the Government of espacio y local que proporcione el

the Republic of Panamá.

Gobierno de la República de Panamá .

The closest cooperation and Entre los servicios de inspección

interchange of information shall de los dos Gobiernos habrá la más

exist between the inspection serv- estrecha cooperación e intercambio ices of the two Governments and de información y habrá consultas there shall be consultation from de vez en cuando entre las

time to time between the author- autoridades de las dos Partes

ities of the two Contracting Parties Contratantes en relación con estos

concerning these services . Pro- servicios. Se establecerán pro-

cedures shall be established where- cedimientos según los cuales los

by the officials responsible for funcionarios encargados de los

the customs, immigration and servicios de aduana, inmigración

public health procedures of the y salud pública de la República

Republic of Panamá shall deliver de Panamá, entregarán a los

to the officials responsible for the funcionarios encargados de los

2462

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

customs, immigration and public servicios de aduana, inmigración health procedures of the United y salud pública de los Estados States of America at Tocumen Unidos de América, en el Aero-

National Airport all passengers puerto Nacional de Tocumen, and cargo destined for the Canal todos los pasajeros y la carga des-

Zone for control, inspection and tinados a la Zona del Canal , para

processing .

su dirección, examen y despacho.

U.S. immigration

responsibilities .

With regard to persons depart- En lo que respecta a las per-

ing from Tocumen National Air- sonas que salgan del Aeropuerto

port who are the immigration Nacional de Tocumen cuya inmi-

responsibility of the United States gración a la Zona del Canal es

of America in the Canal Zone, the responsabilidad de los Estados

immigration authorities of Pan- Unidos de América en la Zona del

amá will accept as a departure Canal, las autoridades de inmi-

permit, and will require presenta- gración de Panamá aceptarán

tion of, satisfactory evidence of como permiso de salida , y exigirán

authorization to depart issued by que se presente, una prueba feha-

the appropriate authorities of the ciente de autorización para su

United States of America in the partida expedida por las autori-

Canal Zone.

dades pertinentes de los Estados

Unidos de América en la Zona del

Canal.
Exemption of Canal Zone cargo from Cargo arriving at or departing La carga que llegue o salga del duties, taxes, or fees.
from Tocumen National Airport Aeropuerto Nacional de Tocumen

which is destined for or originates con destino a la Zona del Canal , o

in the Canal Zone shall be exempt procedente de ella, estará exenta

from duties , taxes or fees of any de derechos, impuestos o graváme-

kind by the Republic of Panamá. nes de toda clase por la República

Cargo arriving at Tocumen Na- de Panamá. La carga que llega al tional Airport which is destined Aeropuerto Nacional de Tocumen for the Canal Zone shall be sub- destinada a la Zona del Canal

jected by the Government of the quedará sujeta por parte del United States of America to the Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de

Free transit.

same regulation and restrictions América a las mismas reglas y

as are applied in the case of cargo restricciones que se aplican en el

arriving at ports of the Canal caso de la carga que llega a los

Zone.

puertos de la Zona del Canal.

Passengers , cargo and mail origi- Los pasajeros , carga y correo

nating in the Canal Zone and procedentes de la Zona del Canal,

destined for shipment from Tocu- con destino al Aeropuerto Naciomen National Airport, or arriving nal de Tocumen para su desat Tocumen National Airport and pacho, o que lleguen al Aero-

destined for the Canal Zone will puerto Nacional de Tocumen con

have the right of free transit destino a la Zona del Canal, through the territory under the gozarán del derecho de libre

jurisdiction of the Republic of tránsito por el territorio bajo la Panamá between the Canal Zone jurisdicción de la República de and Tocumen National Airport. Panamá, entre la Zona del Canal

y al Aeropuerto Nacional de To-

cumen .

63 STAT. ] PANAMA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 31, 1949

2463

Mail posted in Mail posted in the Canal Zone El correo franqueado en la Zona Canal Zone.

may be delivered in the Canal del Canal podrá ser entregado en

Zone by postal authorities of the la Zona del Canal por las autori-

Canal Zone directly to airlines dades postales de la Zona del

designated by such authorities to Canal, directamente a las líneas

fly such mail from Tocumen Na- aéreas designadas por dichas au-

tional Airport ; and airlines arriv- toridades para conducirlo en avión

ing at Tocumen National Airport desde el Aeropuerto Nacional de

bearing mail destined for the Canal Tocumen ; y las líneas aéreas que

Zone may deliver such mail di- lleguen al Aeropuerto Nacional de

rectly to the postal authorities of Tocumen conduciendo correo des-

the Canal Zone in the Canal Zone . tinado a la Zona del Canal podrán

entregarlo directamente a las au-

toridades postales de la Zona del Canal en la Zona del Canal. In view of the mutual interest En vista del interés mutuo de

Quarantine measures.

of the two Governments in quaran- los dos Gobiernos en cuanto a tine measures to safeguard health medidas de cuarentena para proin the Republic of Panamá and in teger la salud pública en la Rethe Canal Zone, the health author- pública de Panamá y en la Zona del ities of the two Governments will Canal, las autoridades sanitarias consult together from time to time de los dos Gobiernos se consulregarding quarantine measures tarán de cuando en cuando acerca

and their enforcement at Tocumen de dichas medidas y de su obser-

National Airport.

vancia en el Aeropuerto Nacional

de Tocumen .

Both Governments agree that Los dos Gobiernos convienen en

there shall be the closest coopera- que existirá la más estrecha co-

Cooperation respecting immigration,
customs, etc.

tion between their respective au- operación entre sus respectivas au-

thorities with respect to measures toridades en cuanto a medidas y and procedures at Tocumen Na- procedimientos referentes a in-

tional Airport concerning immi- migración, aduana, cuarentena y gration, customs, quarantine and sanidad en el Aeropuerto Nacional

sanitation, and that there shall be de Tocumen, y que celebrarán consultations from time to time as consultas, de tiempo en tiempo, en

required concerning such measures relación con dichas medidas y proand procedures and their enforce- cedimientos y su observancia. ment.

ARTICLE XVIII

ARTICULO XVIII

For the purposes of the present Para los fines del presente ConAgreement and its Annex, except venio y de su Anexo , y salvo esti-

Post, p. 2466.

where the text indicates otherwise : pulación del mismo en contrario, se conviene que:

"Aeronautical au(a) The term "aeronautical au- (a) El término "autoridades thorities."

thorities" shall mean in the case of aeronáuticas" significará, en el

the United States of America , the caso de los Estados Unidos de

Civil Aeronautics Board or any América, la Junta de Aeronáutica

person or agency authorized to per- Civil o cualquiera persona o entiform the functions exercised at the dad autorizada para desempeñar

81939-52-PT. III- 11

2464

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

present time by the Civil Aero- las funciones que ejerce en la nautics Board and , in the case of actualidad la Junta de Aeronáu-

Panamá, the Ministry which regu- tica Civil ; y, en el caso de Panamá, lates aviation for the Republic of el Ministerio que reglamenta el

Panamá or any person or entity funcionamiento de la Aviación en authorized to perform thefunctions la República de Panamá, o cual-

exercised at present by the said quiera persona o entidad autori-

Ministry.

zada para desempeñar las fun-

ciones que ejerce en la actualidad

"Designated airline."

dicho Ministerio. (b) The term "designated air- (b) El término "línea aérea de-

line" shall mean the airline or signada" significará la línea o

airlines that the aeronautical au- líneas aéreas que las autoridades thorities of one of the Contracting aeronáuticas de una de las Partes Parties shall have designated to Contratantes hayan designado

Ante, p. 2452.

operate the agreed air routes in para explotar las rutas aéreas conaccordance with Article II of this venidas de conformidad con el

Agreement, it being an indispen- Artículo II de este Convenio,

sable requirement that such desig- siendo requisito indispensable que

nation be communicated in writing tal designación se comunique por

to the aeronautical authorities of escrito a las autoridades aeronáu-

"Air service."

the other Contracting Party.

ticas de la otra Parte Contratante.

(c) The term "air service" shall (c) El término "servicio aéreo "

mean any scheduled air service significará todo servicio aéreo por

performed by aircraft for the pub- itinerario prestado por aeronaves

lic transport of passengers , mail or para el transporte público de pasa-

cargo .

jeros , correo o carga .

" International air service . '

(d) The term "international air

(d) El término "servicio aéreo

service" shall mean an air service internacional" significará el ser-

which passes through the air vicio aéreo que pase por el espacio space over areas with respect to aéreo de áreas sobre las cuales

'Airline."

which more than one State has tenga jurisdicción más de un

jurisdiction .

Estado .

(e) The term "airline" shall (e) El término "línea aérea"

mean any air transport enterprise significará toda empresa de trans-

offering or operating an interna- porte aéreo que ofrezca o man-

tional air service .

tenga un servicio aéreo interna-

cional.

"Stop for non-traffic purposes."

(f) The term "stop for non-

(f) El término "escala técnica"

traffic purposes" shall mean a significará un aterrizaje para cual-

landing for any purpose other quier otro objeto que no sea el de than taking on or discharging tomar o dejar pasajeros , carga o

"Persons who are immigration responsi-
bZiolnitey."of U.S. in Canal

passengers , cargo or mail. (g) The phrase "persons who
are the immigration responsibility of the United States of America

correo . (g) La frase "personas cuya
inmigración es de responsabilidad de los Estados Unidos de América

in the Canal Zone" shall mean en la Zona del Canal" significará those persons who are admitted las personas que son admitidas a to the Canal Zone in accordance la Zona del Canal, de acuerdo con with the Canal Zone immigration las leyes y reglamentos de inmi-

63 STAT. ] PANAMA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 31 , 1949

2465

laws and regulations and who gración de la Zona del Canal y

thereby become the immigration que, con tal motivo , se conviertan

cases and responsibility, including en casos de inmigración bajo la

repatriation responsibility, of the responsabilidad, inclusive la de

United States Government.

repatriación , del Gobierno de los

Estados Unidos de América.

(h) The term "cargo" includes (h) El término "carga" abarca

any and all livestock, baggage, todo ganado , equipaje, bienes , property, goods and merchandise. efectos y mercancías.

"Cargo. "

ARTICLE XIX

ARTICULO XIX

Effect on treaties The provisions of this Agree- Las estipulaciones de este Con- now in force.
ment shall not affect the rights venio no afectarán los derechos y
and obligations of either of the obligaciones de cualquiera de las
two High Contracting Parties Altas Partes Contratantes de conunder the treaties now in force formidad con los tratados ahora

between the two countries, nor be vigentes entre los dos países, ni se

considered as a limitation, defini- podrá considerar como una limitation, restriction or restrictive in- ción, definición, restricción, o in-

terpretation of such rights and terpretación restrictiva de tales

obligations, but without prejudice derechos y obligaciones , pero sin to the full force and effect of the perjuicio del pleno vigor y efecto

provisions of this Agreement.

de las estipulaciones de este Convenio.

ARTICLE XX

ARTICULO XX

This Agreement, including the Este Convenio, así como las

provisions of the Annex thereto , disposiciones del Anexo adjunto,

shall come into force on the day entrarán en vigor en la fecha en on which notice of its ratification que se transmita al Gobierno de by the Government of the Repub- los Estados Unidos de América el lic of Panamá is given to the Gov- aviso de su ratificación por parte

ernment of the United States of del Gobierno de la República de

America. [¹ ]

Panamá .

Entry into force.

In witness whereof, the under- En fe de lo cual, los infrascritos ,

signed, being duly authorized by debidamente autorizados por sus

their respective Governments , have respectivos Gobiernos, suscriben

signed the present Agreement.

el presente Convenio .

Done at the City of Panamá in Hecho en la ciudad de Panamá,

duplicate, in the English and en duplicado , en los idiomas es-

Spanish languages, this thirty- pañol e inglés , el día trigésimo

first day of March, 1949 .

primero de marzo de 1949 .

For the Government of the Por el Gobierno de los Estados

United States of America

Unidos de América:

[SEAL]

MONNETT B. DAVIS

For the Government of the Re- Por el Gobierno de la República

public of Panamá:

de Panamá :

[SEAL]

IGNACIO MOLINO Jr

¹ Entered into force Apr. 14, 1949, the date on which the Panamanian Minister of Foreign Affairs notified the American Ambassador to Panama of ratification of the agreement by the Government of the Republic of Panama.

2466

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

ANNEX

ANEXO AL CONVENIO SOBRE AVIACION

Routes. Post, p. 2469.

SECTION I

SECCION I

The Government of the Re- El Gobierno de la República de

public of Panamá grants to the Panamá otorga al Gobierno de Government of the United States los Estados Unidos de América el

of America the right to conduct derecho de explotar servicios de air transport services by one or transporte aéreo por medio de more air carriers of the United una o más empresas de nacionali-

States nationality designated by dad de los Estados Unidos desigthe latter country on the routes, nadas por este último país, en las specified in Schedule One attached, rutas que se especifican en el

which transit or serve commer- Plan I adjunto , que transiten o

cially the areas with respect to presten servicios comerciales en

which the Republic of Panamá áreas sobre las cuales la República

has jurisdiction.

de Panamá tiene jurisdicción.

SECTION II

SECCION II

The Government of the United El Gobierno de los Estados

States of America grants to the Unidos de América otorga al GoGovernment of the Republic of bierno de la República de Panamá Panamá the right to conduct air el derecho de explotar servicios de transport services by one or more transporte aéreo por medio de una air carriers of Panamanian nation- o más empresas de nacionalidad

Post, p. 2470.

ality designated by the latter de Panamá designadas por este

country on the routes , specified último país , en las rutas que se

in Schedule Two Attached, which especifican en el Plan II adjunto ,

transit or serve commercially the que transiten o presten servicios

areas with respect to which the comerciales en áreas sobre las United States of America has cuales los Estados Unidos de

jurisdiction .

América tiene jurisdicción.

SECTION III

SECCION III

Rights oftransit and of stops.

One or more air carriers desig-

Una o más empresas designadas

nated by each of the Contracting por cada una de las Partes Con-

Parties under the conditions pro- tratantes, de conformidad con las

vided in this Agreement will enjoy, condiciones estipuladas en este

in the areas with respect to which Convenio, gozarán de derechos de

the other Contracting Party has tránsito y de escala técnica , en las

jurisdiction, rights of transit and áreas sobre las cuales tiene juris-

of stops for non-traffic purposes , as dicción la otra Parte Contratante ,

well as the right of commercial así como del derecho de entrada y

entry and departure for interna- salida comerciales para el tránsito

tional traffic in passengers, cargo internacional de pasajeros , carga y

and mail at the points enumerated correo en los sitios indicados en

on each of the routes specified in cada una de las rutas que se

the schedules attached .

especifican en los planes adjuntos .

63 STAT. ] PANAMA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 31, 1949

2467

SECTION IV

SECCION IV

The air transport facilities avail- Los servicios de transporte aéreo

able hereunder to the traveling que se proporcionan al público

public shall bear a close relation- viajero de acuerdo con este Anexo

ship to the requirements of the se relacionarán estrechamente con

public for such transport.

los requerimientos del público en

cuanto a dicho transporte.

SECTION V

SECCION V

There shall be a fair and equal Habrá equitativa e igual opor-

opportunity for the carriers of the tunidad para que las líneas aéreas Contracting Parties to operate on de las Partes Contratantes fun-

any route between the areas with cionen en cualquier ruta entre las respect to which they respectively áreas sobre las cuales tiene juris-

have jurisdiction covered by this dicción cada una de ellas de con-

Agreement and Annex.

formidad con el Convenio y este

Anexo .

SECTION VI

SECCION VI

In the operation by the air car- En la explotación de los servicios trCuonkopseerrviactesi. on in

riers of either Contracting Party troncales que se describen en el of the trunk services described in presente Anexo , por las líneas the present Annex, the interests aéreas de una u otra de las Partes of the air carriers of the other Contratantes, se tomarán en conContracting Party shall be taken sideración los intereses de las into consideration so as not to líneas aéreas de la otra Parte Con-

affect unduly the services which tratante a fin de no afectar inde-

the latter provide on all or part bidamente los servicios que éstas

of the same routes.

últimas presten en la totalidad o

parte de las mismas rutas .

SECTION VII

SECCION VII

It is the understanding of both Queda entendido entre las dos Contracting Parties that services Partes Contratantes que los serprovided by a designated air car- vicios que preste una línea aérea rier under the present Agreement designada de acuerdo con el preand Annex shall retain as their sente Convenio y Anexo, tendrán primary objective the provision como objetivo primordial el proof capacity adequate to the traffic porcionar capacidad adecuada a demands between the country of las demandas del tránsito entre el which such air carrier is a national país de nacionalidad de la línea and the country of ultimate desti- aérea y el país de destino final del nation of the traffic. The right tránsito . El derecho de embarto embark or disembark on such que o desembarque en dicho serservices international traffic de- vicio de tránsito internacional stined for and coming from third destinado a terceros países , o procountries at a point or points on cedente de ellos , en sitio o lugares the routes specified in the present en las rutas especificadas en el

Capacity .

2468

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Annex shall be applied in accord- presente Anexo, será ejercido de

ance with the general principles acuerdo con los principios gene-

of orderly development to which rales de su desarrollo metódico

both Contracting Parties sub- a los cuales se adhieren ambas

scribe and shall be subject to the Partes Contratantes, y estará

general principle that capacity sujeto al principio general de que

should be related:

la capacidad debe relacionarse:

(a) To traffic requirements be- (a) Con las necesidades del

tween the country of origin and tránsito entre el país de origen y

the countries of destination ;

los países de destino ;

(b) To the requirements through airline operation ; and

of (b) Con las necesidades del funcionamiento de líneas aéreas con destino a otro país ; y

(c) To the traffic requirements (c) Con las necesidades del

of the area through which the air- tránsito en el área sobre la cual

line passes after taking account of pase la línea aérea, después de

local and regional services .

tomar en cuenta los servicios

locales y regionales .

Privileges respectIng passengers, etc.,

However, because a unique situ-

Sin embargo, por cuanto existe

dCeasntailnZeodneto. or from ation exists concerning the Canal una situación única respecto a la

Zone by reason of the relation- Zona del Canal, en virtud de las

ship arising out of certain treaties relaciones resultantes de ciertos between the United States of tratados celebrados entre los

America and the Republic of Estados Unidos de América y la Panamá, and as it is desired to República de Panamá, y por develop air services to and from cuanto se desea desarrollar serviTocumen National Airport and to cios aéreos al Aeropuerto Nacional establish Tocumen National Air- de Tocumen y desde él , y estableport as a civil airport serving the cerlo como aeropuerto civil que Canal Zone as well as the territory sirva a la Zona del Canal además with respect to which the Republic del territorio bajo jurisdicción de of Panamá has jurisdiction, and in la República de Panamá, y en view of the fact that Albrook Air vista de que la Base de la Fuerza Force Base has heretofore been Aérea en Albrook ha sido hasta used as the airfield from which ahora utilizada como aeródromo

Panamá City and the Canal Zone para servir a la ciudad de Panamá were served, and airlines of the y a la Zona del Canal, y de que United States of America and of líneas aéreas de los Estados Unidos

the Republic of Panamá have de América y de la República de originated and terminated serv- Panamá han iniciado y terminado ices from the Canal Zone to vari- en la Zona del Canal servicios a ous of the American Republics varias repúblicas americanas

from Albrook Air Force Base, it is desde la Base de la Fuerza Aérea

agreed that airlines designated by de Albrook, se conviene en que a the Government of the United las líneas aéreas designadas por el

States of America to operate air Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de services on the routes described in América para prestar servicios Schedule One of this Annex shall, aéreos en las rutas que se descriwith respect to the capacity pro- ben en el Plan I de este Anexo, se

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 31, 1949

2469

visions of this section , be per- les permitirá, con respecto a lo

mitted to embark and disem- dispuesto sobre capacidad en esta

bark, at Tocumen National Air- sección, el embarque y desembarport, passengers, mail and cargo que, en el Aeropuerto Nacional de

destined to or from the Canal Tocumen, de pasajeros, correo y

Zone, as if such passengers , mail carga destinados a la Zona del

and cargo were embarked and dis- Canal o procedentes de ella, como embarked at an airport situated si dichos pasajeros , correo y carga

in the Canal Zone.

se embarcaran y desembarcaran

en un aeropuerto situado en la

Zona del Canal.

SECTION VIII

SECCION VIII

It is the intention of both Con- Ambas Partes Contratantes pro-

tracting Parties that there should curarán la celebración de consultas

be regular and frequent consulta- frecuentes y regulares entre sus

tion between their respective aero- respectivas autoridades aeronáunautical authorities and that there ticas a fin de que por ese medio

should thereby be close collabora- exista entre ellas estrecha colabo-

tion in the observance of the ración para la observancia de los

principles and the implementation principios y para el cumplimiento

of the provisions outlined in the de las estipulaciones de este Con-

present Agreement and Annex.

venio y de su Anexo .

Consultations.

SCHEDULE ONE

PLAN I

Airlines designated by the Gov- Las líneas aéreas designadas por Routes for U.S. airlines.
ernment of the United States of el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

America shall be entitled to oper- de América tendrán derecho a ex-

ate air services on the air routes plotar servicios en las rutas aéreas

specified below, via intermediate que se especifican a continuación,

points, in both directions, and to via puntos intermedios, en ambas

exercise the rights granted in the direcciones, y a ejercer los de-

foregoing Agreement and Annex rechos que otorgan el Convenio y

at the points specified below:

el Anexo que anteceden, en los

puntos especificados a continua-

ción:

1. The United States of Amer- 1. De los Estados Unidos de

ica, via points in the United Mex- América, vía puntos en los Estados

ican States, and/or Central Amer- Unidos Mexicanos, y en la Amé-

ica, to David and to Panamá City rica Central, o en uno u otro, a

and to points beyond in other David y a la ciudad de Panamá y

countries .

a puntos ulteriores en otros países.

2. The United States of Amer- 2. De los Estados Unidos de

ica via points in the Caribbean América, vía puntos en el Caribe,

and/or South America to Panamá y en la América del Sur, o en uno

City and to points beyond in other u otro, a la ciudad de Panamá y a

countries .

puntos ulteriores en otros países.

3. The United States of Amer- 3. De los Estados Unidos de

ica via points in the Caribbean to América, vía puntos en el Caribe,

Panamá City and to points beyond a la ciudad de Panamá y a puntos

in other countries.

ulteriores en otros países.

2470

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

4. Panamá City and the Canal 4. De la ciudad de Panamá y

Zone (each being served through de la Zona del Canal (ambas ser-

Tocumen National Airport) to vidas por el Aeropuerto Nacional

points in the Western Hemisphere. de Tocumen) a puntos en el Hemisferio Occidental.

On the above routes, the airline En las rutas mencionadas , la

or airlines authorized to operate línea o líneas aéreas autorizadas the route may operate nonstop para operar en ellas , podrán

flights between any of the points efectuar vuelos sin escala, entre

enumerated, omitting stops at one cualquiera de los puntos indicados,

or more of the other points so omitiendo las escalas en uno o

enumerated .

más de los otros puntos a que se

hace referencia .

SCHEDULE TWO

PLAN II

Routes for Pan-

amanian airlines.

Airlines designated by the Re- A las líneas aéreas designadas

public of Panamá are accorded por la República de Panamá se

in the territory of the United les otorgan en el territorio de los States of America rights of transit Estados Unidos de América

and non-traffic stop, as well as derechos de tránsito y de escala

the right to pick up and discharge técnica, así como el derecho de

international traffic in passengers , tomar y descargar en tránsito

cargo and mail at a point or points internacional pasajeros , carga y

in the United States to be agreed correo en un punto o puntos de

to at a later date.

los Estados Unidos de América que

se acordarán en fecha posterior.

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 31 , 1949

2471

The American Ambassador to the Panamanian Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 145

PANAMA, March 31 , 1949

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to the civil aviation agreement between

the United States of America and the Republic of Panama signed at Panama City on March 31 , 1949. Article XIV of this agreement states that, "The Government of the United States of America will make available a certain communications cable for use in connection

Ante, p. 2459

with operations at Tocumen National Airport , Panama City and the Canal Zone, according to terms and conditions concerning the installation, operation and maintenance of this cable for commercial as well as official use, which will be determined by an exchange of notes entered into this day between the Government of the Republic of Panama and the Government of the United States of America".

Upon notification to my Government of the ratification by the Government of the Republic of Panama of the general aviation agreement, the Government of the United States of America will furnish

the said communications cable under the following terms and conditions :
U.S. communica(1 ) The Government of the United States of America is the owner tions cable. of 16 miles of 100 pair subterranean and submarine cable and 2 miles of 50 pair subterranean and submarine cable (hereinafter referred to as " the cable") . The Government of the United States of America
and the Government of the Republic of Panama agree that the cable shall be installed between Albrook Air Force Base and Tocumen Na-

tional Airport, and shall remain there for a period of fifteen years from the date of this agreement. Upon the expiration of said fifteen -year period, the Government of the United States of America shall have the right to remove or otherwise dispose of the cable. If, however, at the end of said fifteen-year period , both Contracting Parties are agreeable thereto , the terms of this agreement shall be extended for an additional ten years. As long as this agreement shall be in effect, the

cable shall remain the property of the Government of the United States of America , and shall not be subject to taxes of any kind imposed by the Government of the Republic of Panama.
(2) The Government of the United States of America shall prepare technical specifications for the installation of the cable and shall provide technical supervision of the installation thereof. The Government of the United States of America shall itself perform any and all operations connected with splicing, loading and termination of the cable with respect to said installation , and shall provide all equipment and materials necessary for such operations. The Contracting Parties agree that such loading and terminal equipment shall be considered a part of the cable, and shall be subject to all provisions of this agreement which apply to the cable . The Government of the United States of America undertakes to exercise its best efforts to maintain the cable in operating condition for and during the term of this agreement. The Government of the United States of America may desig-
81939-52-PT. III- 12

Installation.

2472

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

nate agents to perform the aforesaid work on its behalf, but agrees to establish technical standards and provide technical supervision of any

Expenses to U.S. Government.

such agents in the performance of the said work, and any such agents shall comply with such standards and supervision. The Government of the United States of America shall bear only the expenses involved in the following operations :

(a) Preparation of technical specifications for the installation of the cable.

(b) Technical supervision of the installation of the cable .

(c) Splicing, loading and termination operations.

(d) Equipment and materials necessary for splicing, loading and
termination .
Installation of cable by Republic of (3) The Government of the Republic of Panama shall , except as Panama.
hereinabove stated , install the cable in accordance with the technical

Expense.

specifications and technical supervision of the Government of the United States of America . The Government of the Republic of

Right of replacement.

Panama shall bear the expense of the said installation of the cable except as hereinabove recited .
(4) The Government of the United States of America shall have the

right to replace all or any part of the cable during the term of this agreement, provided, however, that the Government of the United

States of America be under no duty to replace all or any part thereof. Should there be a difference of opinion between the Contracting Parties as to whether any proposed operation is an item of maintenance or an item of replacement, the Contracting Parties shall consult

together to arrive at a determination with respect thereto . Operational control.
(5) The operational control of the cable shall be vested in the Government of the United States of America . However, lines of the cable shall be allocated by mutual accord between the Contracting Parties in accordance with the purposes of this agreement , and said allocation may be changed at any time and from time to time by mutual consent of the Contracting Parties . It is agreed that lines in the cable shall be allocated, on a priority basis , to the Government of the United States of America and to the Government of
the Republic of Panama, respectively, as circumstances may require . No charge shall be imposed by either Contracting Party for lines so allotted to either of the Contracting Parties . All lines in the cable not so allocated shall be allocated for commercial operation after reserving a sufficient number for use as spares . The lines allotted for commercial operation shall be made available to commercial airlines of the United States of America engaged in business at Tocumen National Airport, and to similar airlines of the Republic of Panama, on a non-discriminatory basis. Lines not so allocated shall be made. available to other commercial users on a non-discriminatory basis. The original allocation will be made according to the following priority:

(a) Up to ten pairs of lines may be used by each Contracting Party for official Government use only.

(b) Up to 15 pairs of lines will be reserved for engineering spares.

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -MAR. 31 , 1949

2473

(c) Up to 10 pairs of lines will be reserved for transmission of aeronautical communications between Tocumen National Airport and the Canal Zone.

(d) Air lines of the Republic of Panama and of the United States of America will be allocated pairs of lines upon application.

(e) Other commercial users will be allocated pairs of lines upon application.

The above allocation will be administered by an appropriate agency

of the United States Government and it is understood that the

allocation of lines to official or private users in Panama City will

depend upon whether the local telephone company is able to make the necessary connection with the cable.
(6) Lines allotted for commercial operation in accordance with paragraph (5) may be made available by connection to the cable by

Allotment of lines for commercial opera .
tion.

any existing commercial telephone system, on terms and conditions, and at cable rental rates established by the United States of America, due consideration being given to practices in the area. Rates to be

Cable rental rates.

charged ultimate users of such lines shall be computed by adding the rates established by the local telephone company for Panama City service, which are approved by the Government of the Republic of Panama, to the rates charged by the Government of the United States of America for rental of lines within the cable. The Government of

the Republic of Panama agrees that no special tax, charge, or surcharge shall be imposed by the Government of Panama on such rates charged to ultimate users , except reasonable charges for any additional service or services which may be provided at the request of the ultimate user.

(7) Cable rental rates established by the United States of America

in accordance with provisions of paragraph (6) shall be fixed at

a level estimated to cover costs of maintenance of the cable and/or

replacement of the cable . Such rates may be adjusted at any time and from time to time as circumstances require .
Revenues derived from rental of lines within the cable to nonGovernment users will be collected by the agency of the Government

Collection of revenues from rentals.

of the United States administering the cable from the commercial

telephone company serving the ultimate users, and all such revenues collected will be transmitted to the Treasurer of the United States to

cover costs of maintenance and/or replacement of the cable. (8) The cable shall not be used by either Contracting Party or by
any person, persons or entity for the transmission of power. At no

Transmission of power; voltage.

time shall voltage exceed 130 volts nor shall the current exceed one ampere.

The Government of the United States of America is prepared , if this proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Panama, to regard the present note and Your Excellency's reply thereto as constituting an agreement between the two Governments, which shall take effect on the day on which notice of the ratification of the aforesaid civil aviation agreement by the Government of the Republic of Panama is given to the Government of the United States of America .

Effective date. Ante, p. 2465n.

2474

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
MONNETT B. DAVIS His Excellency
Lic . IGNACIO MOLINO, Jr. Minister for Foreign Affairs Panama, R. P.

The Panamanian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

D. P. No 646

PANAMÁ, 31 de Marzo de 1949.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo a honra avisar recibo de la nota de Vuestra Excelencia , de esta fecha, que dice lo siguiente :

"Tengo el honor de referirme al convenio sobre aviación civil firmado entre los Estados Unidos de América y la República de Panamá, en la Ciudad de Panamá el día 31 de Marzo de 1949. El
Artículo XIV de este Convenio expresa que : "El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América facilitará un cable de comunicaciones
para uso en conexión con las operaciones en el Aeropuerto Nacional de Tocumen en la Ciudad de Panamá, y en la Zona del Canal, de acuerdo con las estipulaciones y condiciones relativas a la instalación, uso y mantenimiento de este cable, para la prestación del servicio tanto oficial como comercial, las cuales se determinarán en canje de notas efectuado hoy entre el Gobierno de la República de Panamá y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América".
Al notificarse a mi Gobierno la ratificación del convenio general de aviación por el Gobierno de la República de Panamá, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América suministrará dicho cable de
comunicaciones mediante los siguientes términos y condiciones: 1. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América es propietario
de un cable de 16 millas, cable subterráneo y submarino de cien pares de líneas , y de otro cable de 2 millas asímismo subterráneo y submarino de cincuenta pares de líneas, que en adelante se denominarán "el cable". El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y el Gobierno de la República de Panamá convienen en que dicho cable será instalado entre la Base de la Fuerza Aérea de Albrook y el Aeropuerto Nacional de Tocumen, y que permanecerá allí por un período de quince años a partir de la fecha de este acuerdo . A la expiración de dicho período de quince años, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América tendrá el derecho de remover dicho cable o disponer en cualquier otra forma del mismo . Sin embargo, si al finalizar dicho período de quince años ambas Partes Contratantes así lo acuerdan , los términos de este acuerdo serán prorrogados por diez años adicionales . Mientras esté vigente este acuerdo, el cable continuará siendo propiedad del Gobierno de los Estados

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 31, 1949
Unidos de América , y no estará sujeto a contribución o impuesto de ninguna clase por parte del Gobierno de la República de Panamá .
2. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América preparará las especificaciones técnicas para la instalación del cable y proporcionará la inspección técnica de la instalación del mismo . El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos ejecutará de por sí cualesquiera y todas las operaciones relativas al empalme, carga y terminación del cable con respecto a dicha instalación , y proporcionará todo el equipo y materiales necesarios para dichas operaciones. Las Partes Contratantes convienen en que el conjunto de aparatos de carga y terminales será considerado parte del cable y estará sujeto a todas las estipulaciones de este acuerdo aplicables al cable . El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América se compromete a ejercer sus mejores esfuerzos para mantener el cable en condiciones de funcionamiento durante el período de duración de este acuerdo . El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América puede designar agentes para ejecutar en su nombre los trabajos antes mencionados , pero conviene en establecer normas técnicas y suministrar la inspección técnica de cualesquiera de dichos agentes en la ejecución de dichos trabajos, y dichos agentes se someterán a esas normas e inspección . El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América sufragará únicamente los gastos inherentes a las siguientes operaciones :
a. Preparación de especificaciones técnicas para la instalación del cable .
b. Inspección técnica de la instalación del cable. c. Operaciones de empalme, carga y terminación. d. Equipo y materiales necesarios para las operaciones de
empalme, carga y terminación.
3. Salvo lo anteriormente estipulado , el Gobierno de la República de Panamá instalará el cable de conformidad con las especificaciones técnicas e inspección técnica del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América. El Gobierno de la República de Panama sufragará los gastos de dicha instalación del cable, salvo lo expresado anteriormente .
4. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos tendrá el derecho de reemplazar total o parcialmente el cable durante el término de este acuerdo estipulándose , sin embargo , que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América no está en la obligación de reemplazarlo en su totalidad o en parte. En el caso de surgir diferencia de opinión entre las Partes Contratantes acerca de si cualquier operación que se proponga constituye mantenimiento o reemplazo , las Partes Contratantes se consultarán mutuamente para llegar a una determinación respecto a ello.
5. La dirección del funcionamiento del cable corresponderá al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América . Sin embargo, las Partes Contratantes asignarán de mutuo acuerdo las líneas de los cables de conformidad con los fines de este acuerdo, y podrán cambiar dichas asignaciones en cualquier momento y periódicamente cuando así lo acuerden las Partes Contratantes .

2475

2476

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
Se conviene en que las líneas del cable serán asignadas , a base de prioridad , al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y al Gobierno de la República de Panamá, respectivamente, según lo exijan las circunstancias. No se impondrá cargo a ninguna de las Partes Contratantes por las líneas que hayan sido asignadas a cualquiera de ellas. Todas las líneas del cable no asignadas en la forma indicada lo serán para el servicio comercial después de reservarse un número suficiente de ellas como repuestos . Las líneas asignadas para el servicio comercial serán facilitadas a las empresas aéreas comerciales de los Estados Unidos de América dedicadas a negocios en el Aeropuerto Nacional de Tocumen, y a las empresas aéreas similares de la República de Panamá, sin diferenciación . Las líneas no asignadas en la forma indicada estarán disponibles para las otras empresas comerciales, sin diferenciación. La asignación original se hará de acuerdo con la siguiente prioridad :
a) Para uso oficial de cada Gobierno cada parte contratante podrá utilizar solamente hasta diez pares de líneas .
b) Se reservarán hasta 15 pares de líneas para repuestos.
c) Se reservarán hasta 10 pares de líneas para la trasmisión de comunicaciones de aeronáutica entre el Aeropuerto Nacional de Tocumen y la Zona del Canal.
d) A las empresas aéreas de la República de Panamá y de los Estados Unidos de América se le asignarán pares de líneas a solicitud, sin diferenciación .
e) A los otros clientes comerciales se le asignarán pares de líneas a solicitud , sin diferenciación.
Es entendido que la asignación antes mencionada será administrada por una agencia apropiada del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos y es entendido además que la asignación de líneas para el uso oficial o privado en la Ciudad de Panamá dependerá de si la compañía telefónica local está en capacidad de efectuar la conexión necesaria con el cable.
6. Las líneas asignadas al servicio comercial de acuerdo con lo estipulado por el Artículo V podrán facilitarse mediante su conexión al cable por cualquier sistema telefónico comercial existente , según los términos y condiciones y tarifas de arriendo de cables establecidas por los Estados Unidos de América, dando la debida consideración a la práctica establecida en la región . Las tarifas que se cobren a los clientes que hagan uso de dichas líneas se computarán añadiendo las tarifas establecidas por la compañía telefónica local para el servicio en la Ciudad de Panamá, las cuales hayan sido aprobadas por el Gobierno de la República de Panamá , a las tarifas cobradas por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América por el arriendo de las líneas que forman parte del cable . El Gobierno de la República de Panamá conviene en no imponer

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 31, 1949
gravamen especial, tasa o recargo sobre las tarifas cobradas a los clientes que utilicen las líneas, salvo los cargos razonables por cualquier servicio o servicios adicionales que se proporcionen a solicitud de dichos clientes .
7. Las tarifas de arriendo de cables establecidas por los Estados Unidos de América de acuerdo con las estipulaciones del Artículo VI se fijarán a un nivel calculado para que cubra el costo de mantenimiento del cable y reemplazo del mismo . Tales tarifas serán ajustadas periódicamente y en cualquier momento en que las circunstancias lo requieran.
Los ingresos provenientes del arriendo de las líneas del cable a los clientes no oficiales, serán cobrados por la agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos que administre el cable a la compañía telefónica que preste servicio a los clientes , y todas las sumas recaudadas serán remitidas al Tesorero de los Estados Unidos para cubrir el costo de mantenimiento o reemplazo del cable.
8. El cable no será usado por las Partes Contratantes ni por ninguna persona natural o jurídica para la trasmisión de energía eléctrica. En ningún momento el voltaje excederá de 130 voltios ni la corriente excederá de un amperio.
Si esta propuesta es aceptable para el Gobierno de la República de Panamá , el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos está dispuesto a considerar la presente nota y la respuesta del Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia a la misma como un acuerdo entre los dos Gobiernos, el cual entrará en vigencia el día en que se dé al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América la notificación de la ratificación del convenio de aviación civil antes mencionado por el Gobierno de la República de Panamá".
Sobre el particular tengo a honra informar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de Panamá acepta esta propuesta del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y por lo tanto la nota de Vuestra Excelencia y esta respuesta constituyen un Acuerdo entre los dos Gobiernos, el cual entrará en vigencia el día en que se dé al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América la notificación de la ratificación del Convenio de Aviación Civil antes mencionado por el Gobierno de la República de Panamá.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
IGNACIO MOLINO Jr
Ignacio Molino Jr., Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores.
Su Excelencia MONNETT B. DAVIS , Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Presente.-

2477

2478

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS D. P. No. 646

PANAMA, March 31 , 1949.

MR. AMBASSADOR : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's
note of this date which states the following :

[For the English language text of this note as signed, see p. 2471. ]
In connection with this matter I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Panama accepts this proposal of the Government of the United States of America, and therefore Your Excellency's note and this reply constitute an Agreement between the two Governments, which will come into force on the day on which notification of the ratification of the above-mentioned Civil Aviation Agreement by the Government of the Republic of Panama is given to the Government of the United States of America.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
IGNACIO MOLINO Jr

Ignacio Molino, Jr.

His Excellency MONNETT B. DAVIS ,

Minister of Foreign Relations.

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the United States of America, City-

Ante, p .2458. Conditions .

The American Ambassador to the Panamanian Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 147

PANAMA, R. P. , March 31 , 1949

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the civil aviation agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of Panama signed at Panama City on March 31 , 1949. Article XIV of this Agreement states that, "The Government of the United States of America will supply, subject to the availability of suitable personnel and appropriated funds for the purpose , a civil aviation mission to aid the Government of the Republic of Panama in the development of its civil aviation, including technical assistance, if such a mission is requested by the Government of Panama."
Upon notification to my Government of the ratification by the Government of the Republic of Panama of the general aviation agreement , the Government of the United States of America will endeavor , if requested by the Government of the Republic of Panama , to furnish a technical aviation mission under the following conditions :

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 31 , 1949

2479

Availability of per (1) The assignment of the United States civil aviation mission to sonnel and funds.
Panama shall be subject to the availability of suitable personnel and

appropriated funds for the purpose. (2) The mission shall function in an advisory capacity to appro-
priate Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Panama and will work with personnel of the Republic of Panama concerned with civil aviation on a cooperative basis for the purpose of assisting in improving and developing civil aviation facilities and services in Panama .
(3) The Government of the United States of America shall designate, subject to the approval of the Government of the Republic of

Advisory capacity Chief of Mission

Panama, a Chief of Mission, who shall represent the mission before

the Government of the Republic of Panama through the Minister in whose ministry responsibility for aviation is vested . Other members

Members.

of the mission shall be designated in like manner and , in addition to

the chief of mission, shall serve as advisors and consultants to the

Government of the Republic of Panama in specific fields of civil

aviation. They shall conduct studies and analyses and furnish

technical advice with respect to specific matters or problems now or hereafter arising which are within their competence . They shall demonstrate processes and methods of the United States of America

and assist in the technical training of local personnel of the Republic

of Panama. Members of the mission shall be responsible to the Chief

of Mission and shall engage directly in the performance of technical

duties for the Government of the Republic of Panama only to the

extent agreed upon by the Chief of Mission and the appropriate Minister of the Government of the Republic of Panama .
(4) The civil aviation mission shall be composed of personnel in

Personnel.

such technical categories as are agreed upon by the Government of

the United States of America and the Government of the Republic

of Panama. The duration of their assignments, their replacement by

personnel in other technical categories , or an increase or decrease in the total number of personnel assigned, shall be based on the needs

of the Government of the Republic of Panama for assistance in particular technical fields and shall take into consideration the competence of Panama to furnish and maintain aeronautical services and

facilities in accordance with accepted international standards. Recall of members
(5) The Government of the United States of America retains the by U.S.

right to recall any member of the mission at any time upon 30 days

notification to the Government of the Republic of Panama or at any

time upon mutual consent.
Salary, allowances (6) Members of the mission shall receive their salary, allowances, and travel expenses.

and travel expenses to and from the Republic of Panama incidental

to their assignments with the mission in Panama from the Govern-

ment of the United States of America, subject to reimbursement by

the Government of the Republic of Panama as specified below. (7) The Government of the Republic of Panama shall reimburse
the Government of the United States of America, at the rate of $2,000.00 per year for the chief and each member of the mission to-

Reimbursement by Government of Republic of Panama.

2480

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

ward expenses incurred by the Government of the United States in

connection with the assignment of these personnel. Such reimburse-

ment shall intially be made six months after each assignment and at intervals of six months thereafter. However, for accounting and

procedural reasons, it will not be necessary for the Government of the Republic of Panama to make any payment to the Government of the United States of America until such time as the Government of

the Republic of Panama shall have received a statement of its obligations in this connection. The duration of assignments of personnel of the mission shall be based on the period commencing from the

date of departure from the United States of America of each member

of the Mission, and shall continue, following the termination of duty

with the mission, for the return trip to the United States of America ,

computed on the basis of the shortest, usually traveled route, and

Tax-free co thereafter for the period of accumulated m leave p which e may n be s due. a-

tion.

(8) Compensation of personnel of the mission shall not be subject

to any tax now or hereafter in effect in the Government of the Republic

of Panama or any of its political or administrative subdivisions.

Should there, however, at present or while this agreement is in effect,

be any taxes which might affect this compensation , such taxes shall

be paid by the Government of the Republic of Panama in order to

Exemption from customs duties.

comply with the provisions of this paragraph. (9) The Government of the Republic of Panama agrees to grant
personnel of the mission exemption from customs duties on articles

imported for the official use of the mission , for the personal use of the members thereof, and members of their families . If exemption from payment of such duties cannot be granted, the Government of the

Transportation.

Republic of Panama agrees to pay the cost thereof in order to comply with this requirement.
( 10) The Government of the Republic of Panama shall furnish

personnel of the mission with means of transportation within the

Office space and facilities .

Republic of Panama required for the conduct of official business and bear the cost thereof.
(11 ) The Government of the Republic of Panama shall provide

suitable office space and facilities for the use of the members of the

mission, and shall furnish adequate bilingual stenographic personnel

Civil liability.

and other employees and bear the cost thereof. ( 12 ) The Government of the Republic of Panama shall assume

civil liability on account of damages to or loss of property or on ac-

count of personal injury or death caused by any member of the

mission while acting within the scope of his duties.
Transportation of remains of deceased ( 13 ) The Government of the Republic of Panama shall permit the personnel.
transportation of the body of any personnel, or accompanying de-

pendent, detailed under these conditions who may die in the Republic of Panama, to a place of burial in the United States of America.

Duration .

selected by the surviving members of the family or their legal representative .
(14) The foregoing terms and conditions shall continue in effect

for a period of two years unless terminated at an earlier date in accordance with the following :

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -MAR. 31 , 1949

2481

(a) By either Government, subject to two months ' notice to the other government .
(b) By cancellation upon the initiative of either of the governments at any time during a period when either of the governments is involved in civil disturbances or foreign hostilities .
(15) Upon termination of the two-year period stated in paragraph 14 above, if all of the objectives of the mission have not been met, the Government of the United States of America agrees to give the fullest consideration to any request of the Government of the Republic of Panama for an extension of these terms and conditions for an additional period .
(16) The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Panama agree, upon the request of either government, to consult respecting the above terms or the carrying out of functions by either government under these terms .
The Government of the United States of America is prepared, if this proposal is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of Panama, to regard the present note and Your Excellency's reply thereto as constituting an agreement between the two Governments, which shall take effect on the day on which notice of the ratification of the aforesaid civil aviation agreement by the Government of the Republic of Panama is given to the Government of the United States of America .
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
MONNETT B. DAVIS His Excellency
Lic. IGNACIO MOLINO, Jr. , Minister for Foreign Affairs, Panama, Panama.

Extension .
Effective date. Ante, p. 2465n.

The Panamanian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

D. P. N. 647 SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

PANAMÁ, 31 de Marzo de 1949

Tengo a honra avisar recibo de la nota de Vuestra Excelencia, de esta fecha, que dice lo siguiente :

Excelencia :

"Tengo el honor de referirme al convenio sobre aviación civil firmado entre los Estados Unidos de América y la República de Panamá, en la Ciudad de Panamá el día 31 de Marzo de 1949. El Artículo XIV de este Convenio expresa que ' El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América conviene en proporcionar una misión de aviación civil para que preste su cooperación al Gobierno de la República de Panamá en el desarrollo de su aviación civil , así como el asesoramiento técnico , siempre que el Gobierno de la República de

2482

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Panamá así lo solicite y que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos. tenga para ello personal idóneo y fondos disponibles'
A la notificación a mi Gobierno por parte del Gobierno de Panamá, de la ratificación del convenio general de aviación , el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos tratará, si así lo solicita el Gobierno de Panamá, de proporcionar una misión técnica de aviación de conformidad con las siguientes condiciones:
1. La designación de la misión de aviación civil de los Estados Unidos dependerá de la disponibilidad de personal apropiado y de fondos presupuestados para ese fin .
2. La misión funcionará como organismo consultivo de los Ministros pertinentes del Gobierno de la República de Panamá , y laborará a base de cooperación con el personal de la República de Panamá encargado de la aviación civil , con el objeto de ayudar al mejoramiento y desarrollo de las facilidades y servicios de la aviación civil en Panamá .
3. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América designará previa aprobación del Gobierno de la República de Panamá, un Jefe de Misión quien representará a la misión ante el Gobierno de la República de Panamá por conducto del Ministro a cuyo despacho corresponda la responsabilidad en materia de aviación . Los otros miembros de la misión serán designados de la misma manera, y servirán, con el jefe de la misión, como asesores y consultores del Gobierno de la República de Panamá en ramos específicos de la aviación civil . Efectuarán estudios y análisis y proporcionarán consejo técnico con respecto a asuntos o problemas específicos actualmente existentes o que en lo futuro se presenten y que estén dentro de su competencia . Harán demostración sobre los procesos y métodos de los Estados Unidos y ayudarán en el adiestramiento técnico de personal local de la República de Panamá. Los miembros de la misión serán responsables ante el Jefe de la misma y se ocuparán directamente del desempeño de funciones de carácter técnico para el Gobierno de la República de Panamá, solamente hasta el punto convenido entre el Jefe de la Misión y el Ministro respectivo del Gobierno de la República de Panamá.
4. La misión de aviación civil estará compuesta de personal en las categorías técnicas que se acuerden entre el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y el Gobierno de la República de Panamá. La duración de sus asignaciones, su reemplazo por personal en otras categorías técnicas o el aumento o reducción del número total del personal asignado , se basarán en las necesidades que tenga el Gobierno de Panamá en cuanto a ayuda en ramos técnicos particulares, y tendrán en consideración la capacidad de Panamá para proporcionar y mantener servicios y facilidades aeronáuticos de acuerdo con las normas internacionales aceptadas .
5. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América retiene el
derecho de retirar a cualquier miembro de la misión en cualquier momento, previa notificación de 30 días al Gobierno de la República de Panamá, o en cualquier momento por mutuo acuerdo .

63 STAT. ] PANAMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 31 , 1949
6. Los miembros de la misión recibirán del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , sus sueldos , emolumentos y gastos de viaje a y desde la República de Panamá inherentes a sus asignaciones a la misión en Panamá con sujeción a reembolso por parte del Gobierno de la República de Panamá según se especifica a continuación .
7. El Gobierno de la República de Panamá reembolsará al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América a razón de $ 2,000.00 anuales por el jefe y cada uno de los miembros de la misión por los gastos efectuados por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos en relación con la asignación de este personal . Este reembolso se efectuará inicialmente seis meses después de cada asignación, y de allí en adelante a intervalos de seis meses. Sin embargo, por razones de contabilidad y procedimiento, no le será necesario al Gobierno de la República de Panamá efectuar pago alguno al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América sino hasta tanto el Gobierno de la República de Panamá haya recibido un estado de sus obligaciones a este respecto . La duración de las asignaciones del personal de la misión se basará en el período que comienza en la fecha de partida desde los Estados Unidos de América de cada miembro de la misión , y continuará, después de la terminación de sus funciones con la misión, por el tiempo del viaje de regreso a los Estados Unidos, computado sobre la base de la ruta generalmente recorrida y más corta, y luego por el período de vacaciones acumuladas que esté pendiente .
8. La remuneración del personal de la misión no estará sujeta a ningún gravamen impuesto actualmente o en el futuro por el Gobierno de la República de Panamá o cualquiera de sus subdivisiones políticas o administrativas . Sin embargo, en caso de que en la actualidad o durante la vigencia de este acuerdo , existan impuestos que puedan afectar esta remuneración , tales impuestos serán pagados por el Gobierno de la República de Panamá a fin de dar cumplimiento a las estipulaciones de esta cláusula.
9. El Gobierno de la República de Panamá conviene en conceder al personal de la misión la exoneración de los impuestos arancelarios sobre los artículos importados para el uso oficial de la misión, para el uso personal de los miembros de la misma y de los miembros de sus familias. Si no puede concederse la exoneración del pago de dichos impuestos, el Gobierno de la República de Panamá conviene en pagar el monto de los mismos a fin de dar cumplimiento a este requisito.
10. El Gobierno de la República de Panamá proporcionará al personal de la misión los medios de transporte dentro de la República de Panamá que sean necesarios para el desempeño de sus funciones oficiales , y sufragará el costo de los mismos.
11. El Gobierno de la República de Panamá proporcionará local y facilidades de oficina apropiados para el uso de los miembros de la misión, y proporcionará el personal bilingüe adecuado para taquigrafía y otros empleados, y sufragará el costo de los mismos.

2483

2484

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
12. El Gobierno de la República de Panamá asumirá la obligación civil por daños o pérdidas de propiedad o por lesiones personales o muerte causados por cualquier miembro de la misión mientras actúe dentro del radio de sus funciones .
13. El Gobierno de la República de Panamá permitirá el transporte del cadáver de cualquier miembro del personal, asignado bajo estas condiciones o de deudos acompañantes , que fallezca en la República de Panamá, hasta el lugar de entierro en los Estados Unidos designado por sus deudos o representantes legales .
14. Las estipulaciones que anteceden permanecerán en vigor por un período de dos años a menos que sean resueltas antes de ese término de la siguiente manera :
a. Por cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos, previa notificación de dos meses al otro Gobierno ;
b. Por cancelación a iniciativa de cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos en cualquier momento durante un período en el que cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos quede comprometido en perturbaciones civiles o en hostilidades extranjeras .
15.-El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos conviene en que si no se han cumplido todos los objetivos de la misión a la terminación del período de dos años expresado en el parágrafo 14 que antecede , dará la más amplia consideración a cualquier solicitud del Gobierno de la República de Panamá sobre prórroga de los presentes términos y condiciones por un período adicional.
16. Los Gobiernos de los Estados Unidos de América y la República de Panamá convienen en consultarse a petición de cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos , con respecto a las estipulaciones que anteceden, o sobre el cumplimiento de las funciones de cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos de conformidad con dichas estipulaciones.
Si esta propuesta es aceptable para el Gobierno de la República de Panamá, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América está dispuesto a considerar la presente nota y la respuesta de Vuestra Excelencia a la misma como constitutivas de un acuerdo entre los dos Gobiernos , el cual entrará en vigencia el día en que el Gobierno de la República de Panamá dé al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América la notificación de la ratificación del antes mencionado convenio de aviación civil" .
Sobre el particular tengo a honra informar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de Panamá acepta esta propuesta del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y por lo tanto la nota de Vuestra Excelencia y esta respuesta constituyen un Acuerdo entre los dos Gobiernos, el cual entrará en vigencia el día en que se dé al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América la notificación de la ratificación del Convenio de Aviación Civil antes mencionado por el Gobierno de la República de Panamá .

63 STAT. ] PANAMA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 31, 1949
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
IGNACIO MOLINO Jr
Ignacio Molino Jr. , Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores .
Su Excelencia MONNETT B. DAVIS , Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Presente.-

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

D. P. No. 647 MR. AMBASSADOR :

PANAMA, March 31 , 1949.

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note of this date, which is worded as follows :

[For the English language text of this note as signed , see p . 2478. ]

Concerning the matter I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Panama accepts this proposal of the Government of the United States of America and , therefore , Your Excellency's note and this reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments, which shall take effect on the day on which notice of the ratification of the above-mentioned Civil Aviation Agreement by the Government of the Republic of Panama is given to the Government of the United States of America .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
IGNACIO MOLINO Jr
Ignacio Molino Jr. , Minister of Foreign Relations.
His Excellency MONNETT B. DAVIS, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America, City.

2485

2486

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

June 4, 1949 T. I. A. S. 1933]

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting the use by civil aircraft of Stephenville and Argentia military air bases in Newfoundland . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa June 4, 1949; entered into force June 4 , 1949 .
The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

No. 134

AMERICAN EMBASSY Ottawa, Canada, June 4, 1949

EXCELLENCY :

55 Stat. 1560.

I have the honor to refer to the Agreement (hereinafter referred to as "Bases Agreement") made on March 27, 1941 , between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the

55 Stat. 1565

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and to related documents providing for the lease to the United States of certain areas in the Western Hemisphere upon the terms and conditions set out in the Bases Agreement.
Article XI ( 5 ) of the Bases Agreement provides that "commercial aircraft will not be authorized to operate from any of the bases ( save in case of emergency or for strictly military purposes under the supervision of the War or Navy Departments ) except by agreement between the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom ; pro-

vided that in the case of Newfoundland, such agreement shall be between the United States and the Government of Newfoundland ".
As a result of the Union which became effective on April 1, 1949 , the Government of Canada has replaced the Government of Newfoundland in the making of laws for certain purposes including the regulation of civil aviation.
In the circumstances I have the honor to propose that an Agreement

providing for the use by civil aircraft of the United States military air Bases at Stephenville and Argentia be entered into as follows :

Use of base at Ste-
phenville for civil aircraft.

ARTICLE I
The air Base at Stephenville shall be available for use in lieu of Gander Airfield for civil aircraft engaged in international civil aviation and otherwise authorized by the Government of Canada to use Gander Airfield for traffic or non-traffic stops

(a) at such times as the responsible Canadian authorities at Gander shall determine that operational conditions do not permit the landing or take-off of such civil aircraft under regular operating practices at Gander Airfield or
(b) at such times as the operating minima established by the country of registry of such aircraft do not permit the use of Gander Airfield in accordance with regular operating practices ;

63 STAT. ] CANADA--AIR BASES IN NEWFOUNDLAND--JUNE 4, 1949

2487

Provided that the country of registry of such aircraft maintains satisfactory civil aviation relations with the United States and Canada.

ARTICLE II
Use by certain CaThe air Base at Stephenville may be used by civil aircraft of Cana- nadian civil aircraft.
dian nationality engaged in domestic air services within Canada.

ARTICLE III
Use of base at ArThe air Base at Argentia may be used as an alternate by civil air- gentia in lieu of Torcraft of Canadian nationality engaged in domestic scheduled air bay Airfield.
services within Canada at such times as the operating minima established by the Government of Canada for the civil use of the airport at Torbay do not permit the use of Torbay Airfield by such aircraft.

ARTICLE IV .
In the light of the military nature of the air Bases at Stephenville and Argentia the two Contracting Parties agree that the exercise

Nondiscriminatory rules, regulations, and practices.

of the rights granted by this Agreement shall be subject to such nondiscriminatory rules, regulations and practices ( including the right

to limit or suspend civil air operations, or to impose conditions or restrictions of a continuing or temporary nature) with respect to

the control of civil aviation as may be established by the National Military Establishment of the United States of America, or any duly authorized representative thereof, in the interest of defense and se-

curity, or because of safety, operational or logistic factors, or availability of space, facilities or services.

ARTICLE V.

The Government of Canada for reasons of security or defense may secCulroistiyngorodfebfaesnesse.for

close the Bases at Stephenville and Argentia to civil use provided that civil aircraft operating for strictly military purposes under the super-
vision of the United States National Military Establishment will not be affected.
ARTICLE VI Establishment ofse-
In light of the military nature of the air bases at Stephenville and curity control, etc.
Argentia, the civil air operations authorized by this Agreement shall be subject to and conditioned upon the establishment of necessary arrangements between the administrative authorities of the two Con-

tracting Parties concerning security control, customs, immigration and similar services, and both Contracting Parties engage to use their best efforts to arrive at such arrangements at the earliest possible date ; provided , however, that no obligation is assumed by the Government of the United States of America to provide housing, messing, transportation, or any other passenger or traffic service required in connection with the civil aviation operations authorized by this Agreement. Civil aviation operations at Stephenville and Argentia provided for in this Agreement shall not be initiated until the operators of civil aircraft authorized pursuant to this Agreement shall have made adequate provision of all terminal facilities, including servicing, main-

2488

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
tenance, passenger and cargo, customs, immigration and health, which they require.
If these proposals are acceptable to the Government of Canada this note, and your reply thereto accepting the proposals, shall be regarded as placing on record the understanding arrived at between the two Governments concerning this matter.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT
His Excellency the Honorable The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

Ante, p. 2486.

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA

No. 182 EXCELLENCY :

OTTAWA, June 4, 1949

I have the honour to acknowledge your Note No. 134 of June 4, 1949, in which you propose that an agreement be entered into between the Governments of the United States and Canada relating to civil aviation at the Leased Bases in Newfoundland.

The agreement as proposed in your Note is acceptable to the Government of Canada. Your Note and this reply are regarded as placing on record the understanding arrived at between the two Governments.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
A. D. P. HEENEY.

for Secretary of State for External Affairs.

His Excellency the Honourable LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT,
Ambassador of the United States of America, 100 Wellington Street, Ottawa.

63 STAT. ] CANADA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 4, 1949

2489

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting air transport services, superseding the agreement of February 17, 1945, as amended. Signed at Ottawa June 4, 1949; entered into force June 4, 1949.

June 4, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1934]

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA

The Government of the United States of America and the Govern-

ment of Canada, hereinafter called the Contracting Parties, having

ratified the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944, and desiring to conclude an agreement to further promote commercial air services in a manner best suited to foster world -wide international air transport, have accordingly ap-

618tat. , Pt . 2 , p. 1180.

pointed authorized representatives for this purpose, who have agreed as follows :

ARTICLE 1

For the purpose of the present Agreement, and its Annex, except Post, p. 2493.

where the text provides otherwise :
(A) The term "aeronautical authorities" shall mean in the case of the United States of America, the Civil Aeronautics Board and any person or agency authorized to perform the functions exercised at the

"Aeronautical sathorities."

present time by the Civil Aeronautics Board and, in the case of Can-

ada, the Minister of Transport and the Air Transport Board or any

person or agency authorized to perform the functions exercised at

present by the said Minister and said Board. (B) The term " territory " shall have the meaning given to it by

"Territory . "

Article 2 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed

at Chicago on December 7, 1944.

61 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 1181.

(C) The definitions contained in Article 96 of the Convention on
61Stat · Pt.2 . International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944 p. 1207.

shall be applied to the present Agreement.

ARTICLE 2
Rights for establishEach contracting party grants to the other contracting party the ing international air
services. rights specified in this Agreement and the Annex thereto for the pur-
pose of establishing the international air services therein described,
whether such services be placed in operation immediately or at a later
date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are
granted.
ARTICLE 3
Inauguration of Any air service described in the Annex hereto may be placed in services.
Post, p. 2493. operation as soon as the contracting party to whom the rights have

2490

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

been granted has designated an airline or airlines to operate such service, and has so notified the other contracting party. Each contracting party reserves the right to withdraw at any time the designation of an airline and substitute the designation of another. The contracting party granting the rights shall , subject to Article 7 hereof, be bound to give, with a minimum of procedural delay, the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines concerned ; provided that the airline or airlines so designated may be required to qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the contracting party granting the rights under the laws and regulations normally applied by those authorities before being permitted to engage in the operations contemplated by this Agreement ; and provided that in areas of hostilities or of military occupation, or in areas affected thereby, such operation shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

ARTICLE 4

Prevention of discriminatory practices, etc.
Charges.

In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality of treatment, both contracting parties agree that :
(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be

imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the contracting parties

agrees , however, that these charges shall not be higher than would

be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national air-

Customs duties, etc., for fuel, lubricat-
ipanrgtso.ils , and spare

craft engaged in similar international services. (b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the ter-
ritory of one contracting party by the other contracting party or its

nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of the airlines of

such contracting party shall, with respect to the imposition of cus-

toms duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by

the contracting party whose territory is entered , be accorded the same

treatment as that applying to national airlines engaged in international services and to airlines of the most-favored-nation.

(c) The fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one

Post, p. 2493.

contracting party authorized to operate the services described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other

contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar

Non preference treatment.

duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.
(d) Each of the contracting parties agrees not to give a preference

to its own airlines against the airlines of the other state in the appli-

cation of its customs, immigration, quarantine and similar regulations or in the use of airports, airways or other facilities.

ARTICLE 5

Validity of certifieates of airworthiness, ote.

Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses for aircraft and personnel to be used in operating the services described in this Agreement and its Annex issued or rendered valid

63 STAT. ] CANADA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 4, 1949

2491

by one contracting party and still in force shall be recognized as valid by the other contracting party. Each contracting party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize , for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another state.

ARTICLE 6

(a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to

Reciprocity of laws and regulations.

the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged

in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of

such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft

of the airlines designated by the other contracting party, and shall

be complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first party.

(b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or

cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance,

immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew or cargo of the other

contracting party upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE 7

Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 10 of this Agreement, each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke permission to exercise the rights specified in this Agreement and the Annex thereto by an airline designated by the other contracting party

Withholding or revocation of exercise of rights .
Post, p. 2493.

in the event that it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control of such airline are vested in nationals of the other

contracting party, or in case of failure by such airline or the government designating such airline to comply with the laws and regulations referred to in Article 6 hereof, or otherwise to perform its

obligations hereunder or to fulfill the conditions under which the

rights are granted in accordance with this Agreement and its Annex.

ARTICLE 8

This Agreement

shall be registered

with the International

Civil

Registration with 1IC0AO .

Aviation Organization.

ARTICLE 9

Continuation in Existing rights and privileges relating to air transport services force of existing rights
and privileges. which may have been granted previously by either of the contracting
parties to an airline of the other contracting party shall continue in force in accordance with the terms under which such rights and
privileges were granted.
ARTICLE 10

Either of the contracting parties may at any time notify the other of its intention to terminate the present Agreement. Such a notice

Termination.

2492

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

shall be sent simultaneously to the International Civil Aviation Organization. In the event such communication is made, this Agreement shall terminate one year after the date of receipt of the notice to terminate, unless by agreement between the contracting parties the communication under reference is withdrawn before the expiration of that time. If the other contracting party fails to acknowledge receipt, notice shall be deemed as having been received 14 days after its receipt by the International Civil Aviation Organization.

ARTICLE 11

Modifications; consultation.

If either of the contracting parties considers it desirable to modify any provision of this Agreement or the Annex thereto, it may request consultation between the aeronautical authorities of both contracting

parties, such consultation to begin within a period of sixty days

from the date of the request. When these authorities mutually

agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Agreement or the Annex thereto, their recommendations on the matter will come into

effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of notes between

the contracting parties.

ARTICLE 12

Effect offuture mul-

tilateral convention.

If a general multilateral air transport Convention accepted by both

contracting parties enters into force, the present Agreement shall

be amended so as to conform with the provisions of such Convention.

ARTICLE 13

Settlement of disputes.

Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or its Annex, any

dispute between the contracting parties relative to the interpretation

or application of this Agreement or its Annex, which cannot be settled

through consultation, shall be submitted for an advisory report to a

torTsr.ibunal of arbitra Designation.

tribunal of three arbitrators, one to be named by each contracting party, and the third to be agreed upon by the two arbitrators so chosen, provided that such third arbitrator shall not be a national of either contracting party. Each of the contracting parties shall desig-

nate an arbitrator within two months of the date of delivery by either

party to the other party of a note requesting arbitration of a dispute ; and the third arbitrator shall be agreed upon within one month after

such period of two months. If the third arbitrator is not agreed upon, within the time limitation indicated , the vacancy thereby created shall

be filled by the appointment of a person , designated by the President

of the Council of ICAO, from a panel of arbitral personnel maintained

in accordance with the practice of ICAO. The executive authorities of

the contracting parties will use their best efforts under the powers

Expenses.

available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in any such advisory report. The expenses of the arbitral tribunal shall be borne

in equal parts by the parties.

ARTICLE 14

59 Stat. 1353.

This Agreement supersedes that relating to civil air transport effected by an Exchange of Notes of February 17, 1945 , amended by

63 STAT. ] CANADA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 4, 1949

2493

an Exchange of Notes of April 10 and 12 , 1947 , provided that in

61 Stat . , Pt. 3, p. 2869.

any case in which an air service authorized under the former Agree-

ment is also provided for in the Annex to this Agreement, an airline

duly authorized by both parties to operate the said service shall be

deemed to have been duly authorized to operate the said service under

this Agreement, and in accordance therewith.

ARTICLE 15

This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereto, will come into force on the day it is signed.
In witness whereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.
Done in duplicate at Ottawa, this 4th day of June, 1949.

Entry into force.

For the Government of the United States of America : RUSSELL B. ADAMS

For the Government of Canada: JOHN R. BALDWIN

ANNEX
SECTION I
The Government of Canada grants to the Government of the United States of America the right to conduct, by one or more airlines of United States nationality designated by the latter country, the international air services specified in Schedule One hereof.

Routes. Post, p. 2497.

SECTION II

The Government of the United States of America grants to the Government of Canada the right to conduct, by one or more airlines of Canadian nationality designated by the latter country, the international air services specified in Schedule Two hereof.

Post, p. 2498.

SECTION III

One or more airlines designated by each of the contracting parties under the conditions provided in this Agreement will enjoy, in the territory of the other contracting party, rights of transit and of stops. for non-traffic purposes, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at the points enumerated in the Schedules hereof.

Rights oftransit and of stops.

SECTION IV

The air transport facilities available to the traveling public under this Agreement and Annex shall bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such transport.

2494

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

SECTION V

Cooperation. Capacity.

There shall be a fair and equal opportunity for the airlines of the contracting parties to operate between their respective territories (as defined in the Agreement ) the international air services covered by this Agreement and Annex.
SECTION VI
In the operation by the airlines of either contracting party of the services described in the present Annex, the interest of the airlines of the other contracting party shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provide on all or part of the same routes.
SECTION VII
It is the understanding of both contracting parties that services provided by a designated airline under this Agreement and Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such airline is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic. The right to embark or disembark on such services international traffic destined for and coming from third countries at a point or points on the routes specified in this Annex shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both contracting parties subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :
(a ) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;
(b) to the requirements of through airline operation ; and (c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline
passes after taking account of local and regional services.

SECTION VIII

Consultations.

It is the intention of both contracting parties that there should be regular and frequent consultation between their respective aeronautical authorities ( as defined in the Agreement ) and that there should thereby be close collaboration in the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in the present Agreement and Annex.

SECTION IX

Rates.

(A ) The determination of rates in accordance with the following paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels, due regard being paid to all relevant factors, such as cost of operation , reasonable profit, and the rates charged by any other airlines, as well as the characteristics of each service.

( B ) The rates to be charged by the airlines of either contracting party between points in the territory of the United States and points Post, pp. 2497, 2498. in Canadian territory referred to in the attached Schedules shall ,

63 STAT.] CANADA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- JUNE 4, 1949

2495

consistent with the provisions of the present Agreement and its Annex, be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the

contracting parties, who shall act in accordance with their obliga-

tions under the present Annex, within the limits of their legal powers. (C) Any rate proposed by the airline or airlines of either con-
tracting party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of both

contracting parties at least thirty (30) days before the proposed

date of introduction ; provided that this period of thirty (30) days may be reduced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties.
(D) The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having approved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air

Approval by Civil Aeronautics Board.

Transport Association ( hereinafter called IATA) , for a period ending in February 1950, any rate agreements concluded through this

machinery during this period and involving United States airlines

will be subject to approval of the Board. Rate agreements concluded

through this machinery may also be required to be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of Canada pursuant to the

principles enunciated in paragraph ( B) above. ( E) The contracting parties agree that the procedure described
in paragraphs ( F) , ( G) and ( H ) of this Section shall apply :

1. If, during the period of the Civil Aeronautics Board's approval of the IATA traffic conference machinery, either any specific rate agreement is not approved within a reasonable time by either contracting party, or a conference of IATA is unable to agree on a rate, or
2. At any time no IATA machinery is applicable, or 3. If either contracting party at any time withdraws or fails to renew its approval of that part of the IATA traffic conference machinery relevant to this Section.

(F) In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic
rates for the transport of persons and property by air on international services and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at present is empowered to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States, and corresponding powers are available to the aeronautical authorities of Canada, each of the contracting parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such manner as to prevent any rate or rates proposed by one of its airlines for services from the territory of one contracting party to a point or points in the territory of the other contracting party from becoming effective if in the judgment of the aeronautical authorities of the contracting party whose airline or airlines is or are proposing such rate, that rate is unfair or uneconomic. If one of the contracting parties on receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph ( C) above is dissatisfied with the rate proposed by the airline or airlines of the other contracting party, it shall so notify the other contracting
81939-52 -PT. III- 13

2496

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

party prior to the expiry of the first fifteen ( 15 ) of the thirty (30 ) days referred to, and the contracting parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
In the event that such agreement is reached, each contracting party will exercise its statutory authority to put such rate into effect as regards its airline or airlines.

If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty ( 30) day period referred to in paragraph ( C ) above, the proposed rate may, unless the aeronautical authorities of the country of the airline concerned see fit to suspend its application, go into effect provisionally pending the settlement of any dispute in accordance with the procedure outlined in paragraph ( H) below.
(G) Until such power is available to the aeronautical authorities of both the United States and Canada , if one of the contracting parties is dissatisifed with any rate proposed by the airline or airlines of either contracting party for services from the territory of one contracting party to a point or points in the territory of the other contracting party, it shall so notify the other prior to the expiry of the first fifteen

( 15 ) of the thirty ( 30 ) day period referred to in paragraph ( C ) above, and the contracting parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
In the event that such agreement is reached , each contracting party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its airline or airlines.

It is recognized that if no such agreement can be reached prior to the expiry of such thirty ( 30) days, the contracting party raising the objection to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the application of the offending rate with respect to its territory.

( H ) When in any case under paragraphs ( F ) and ( G ) above the aeronautical authorities of the two contracting parties cannot agree

Ante, p. 2492.

within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one contracting party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the airline or airlines of the other contracting party, the terms of Article 13 of this Agreement shall apply.

SECTION X

Additional traffic stops.

Additional traffic stops may be made in the territory of the contract-

ing party which designates an airline at the election of that party

provided that such stops be between the specified terminals and in

reasonable proximity to the direct route connecting them. Points on

any of the specified routes may at the option of the designated airline

be omitted on any and all flights.

63 STAT. ] CANADA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 4, 1949

2497

SCHEDULE 1

Routes for U.S. airAn airline or airlines designated by the Government of the United lines.
States shall be entitled to operate air services on each of the air routes
specified via intermediate points, in both directions, and to make

landings in Canada at the points specified in this paragraph :

Seattle Seattle Fairbanks Great Falls Great Falls

- Whitehorse -- Vancouver -- Whitehorse - Lethbridge
Edmonton

-

Fargo Washington

- Winnipeg - Montreal

Washington New York

- Ottawa - Toronto

New York New York

- Montreal - Ottawa

Either New York or Boston - Quebec

Boston

- Montreal

Boston

- Moncton

United States

- Edmonton-Alaska and beyond

United States

Gander-Europe (including

Azores) and beyond

In addition to the points enumerated above, an airline or airlines of the United States will be authorized to stop in Windsor or any domestic service for which they are now or in the future may be authorized by the United States Government to serve Detroit.
In consideration of the special circumstances existing on the routes from New York and Washington to Montreal and Ottawa the Government of Canada agrees that the designated airline or airlines of the United States may serve both Canadian points on the same flights , provided that the carrier or carriers shall exercise no cabotage rights in Canada. Similarly in consideration of the special circumstances existing on the routes from Great Falls to Lethbridge and Edmonton the Government of Canada agrees that the designated airline or airlines of the United States may serve both Canadian points on the same flights, provided that the carrier or carriers shall exercise no cabotage rights in Canada.

2498

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

SCHEDULE 2

Routes for Canadian

airlines.

An airline or airlines designated by the Government of Canada

shall be entitled to operate air services on each of the air routes speci-

fied via intermediate points, in both directions, and to make landings

in the United States at the points specified in this paragraph :

Victoria

- Seattle

Whitehorse - Fairbanks

Winnipeg - Sault Ste. Marie,

Toronto Toronto Toronto Montreal Halifax

Michigan-Toronto - Chicago - Cleveland - New York - New York -- Boston

Canada

- Honolulu-Australasia

Canada

and beyond
Tampa/St. Petersburg-
Bahamas and/or points

in the Caribbean and

1

beyond

In addition to the points enumerated above, an airline or airlines of Canada will be authorized to stop in Detroit on any domestic service for which they are now or in the future may be authorized by the Canadian Government to serve Windsor.

63 STAT. ] FRANCE-MARITIME CLAIMS AND LITIGATION- MAR. 14, 1949

2499

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting maritime claims and litigation . Signed at Washington March 14, 1949; entered into force March 14, 1949.

March 14, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1935]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES AND THE GOVERNMENT OF FRANCE RESPECTING MARITIME CLAIMS AND LITIGATION

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the French Republic, desiring to avoid between themselves and between their nationals litigation in matters of maritime transportation , and desiring to carry out the terms and spirit of paragraph 6 (b) of the Memorandum of Understanding Regarding Settlement for Lend-Lease, Reciprocal Aid , Surplus War Property, and Claims, dated May 28, 1946 , agree as follows :

61 Stat., Pt.4, p.4176.

Article I
Each of the Contracting Governments hereby waives all claims against the other Contracting Government or against any servant or agent of such Government in any case where such servant or agent is entitled to indemnity from his or its Government, arising as follows :

Waiver of claims.

(1) Claims arising out of loss of or damage to the vessels , cargoes , aids to navigation, shore structures or port installations, fixed or movable, owned by one Contracting Government, caused by the navigation, operation, construction or location of the vessels, cargoes , aids to navigation, shore structures or port installations, fixed or movable, owned by the other Contracting Government .
(2) Claims arising out of salvage services , including temporary repairs incidental to the salvage itself, rendered by one Contracting Government or by any organization owned or so controlled by it as to authorize it to make this waiver on its behalf, to any vessel, cargo or freight owned by the other Contracting Government.

(3) Claims for loss of or damage to cargo owned by one Contracting Government arising out of the carriage or handling thereof and claims for the loss of or damage to any cargo or vessel owned by one Contracting Government caused by the carriage or handling of cargo owned by the other Contracting Government.
(4) Claims of one Government for general average contribution against the other Government, or against the vessels , cargo and freight owned by it. Each Contracting Government undertakes not to make any claim in respect of any vessels or cargo insured by it to which it may be entitled by virtue of any right of subrogation either

2500

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

(a) directly against the other Contracting Government, or (b) in any case where such other Government represents that
such claim if made would ultimately be borne by such other Government .

(5) Nothing in this Article, or elsewhere herein, shall be construed to waive any claims of the French Government, as an insured ,
under policies of hull insurance effected by the United States Government on vessels bareboat chartered to the French Government and time chartered back to the United States Government.

Article II

Assertion of certain

claims.

Where in any case claims arise which are not required to be waived

by this Agreement in addition to or in conjunction with claims which

are so required to be waived , and it is necessary in any proceedings

including proceedings for the limitation of liability that claims be

marshalled or for the proper assessment of any salvage or general

average that values should be estimated, the provisions of this Agreement shall not apply, and in consequence claims which would otherwise be required to be waived under this Agreement shall be asserted . Any recoveries, however, shall be waived by the Government entitled to such recoveries or at the option of such Government shall be dealt with in such other way as will give effect to the purposes of the Agreement .

Article III

"Owned. "
Vessel owned by a Contra"cting Government.'

(1) The ownership referred to by the word "owned" as used in this Agreement shall include the interest which one of the Contracting Governments may have in a vessel or cargo by reason of the assumption by such Government , whether under charter, requisition or decree or by virtue of insurance, indemnity, or otherwise, of rights, or liabilities, or both, of the owners of such vessel or cargo respectively, notwithstanding the fact that any such interest may be insured or reinsured with private underwriters .
The expression "vessel owned by a Contracting Government" includes but is not limited to a vessel on bareboat charter to

a Contracting Government or requisitioned by the Contracting Government on bareboat terms , or time chartered to or otherwise operated by or for a Contracting Government on terms which authorize such Government to make this Agreement

effective with respect to such vessel. The term "vessel" shall include a naval vessel.

Insurance.

(2) Each Government represents that, by reason of this Agreement or arrangements made in connection therewith, any insurance which it may cause to be taken out or which it has caused to be taken out on any ship or cargo being the property of such Government, or of any wholly-owned agency or instrumentality of such Government, is, wherever any waiver provided for in this Agreement would in the absence of such insurance apply,

63 STAT. ] FRANCE-MARITIME CLAIMS AND LITIGATION-MAR. 14, 1949

2501

(a) free of claim in respect of any liability of the insured interest towards the other Government and
(b) without recourse against such other Government. Bareboat charter
(3) In order to carry out the full intention of the provisions of waivers. Ante, p. 2499.
Article I of this Agreement each Contracting Government will so arrange in connection with bareboat charters to it of vessels
subject to the terms of this Agreement that the owners or
persons interested through such owners shall not have or assert
any claims of the character specified in Article I.

Article IV Right of sovereign
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of the immunity. right of either Contracting Government in appropriate cases to assert sovereign immunity.
Article V Claims asserted in
Claims asserted or about to be asserted against one Government in court. the courts of the other Government by nationals of that other Government for damages of the categories which, as between the two Governments, are made the subject of waiver by Article I, and claims for personal injury by such nationals arising out of activities referred to in said Article I, will be paid or otherwise disposed of as matters of
Payment by lendlend-lease and reverse lend-lease, each Government effecting the lease andreverse lendpayment, settlement or other final disposition of all such claims . lease.
In general , one Contracting Government will at the request of the other take such steps as may be necessary to release vessels and cargo belonging to the other Government from legal action brought in a court of the former Government. Such aid shall be granted with respect to claims asserted or about to be asserted in the courts of each Government .
Article VI Maritime incident
Affirmative claims of either Government against the nationals of the claims. other Government arising out of maritime incidents shall be tendered
to the other for handling before being otherwise pressed in the courts of the other Government . The amounts thus recovered will be credited to lend-lease and reverse lend-lease accounts.

Article VII
Each Government shall prescribe the procedure for the investigation and disposition of claims to be paid by such Government pursuant to Articles V and VI after consultation with the other Government .

Procedure.

Article VIII
Period covered by (1) The intergovernmental waiver provisions of this Agreement waiver provisions.
embodied in Articles I to IV shall apply in respect to all claims
arising from incidents that occurred on or after December 7 ,
1941 and prior to July 1 , 1946. Period covered by
(2) The lend -lease and reverse lend-lease provisions of this Agree- lend-lease and reverse lend-lease.
ment, embodied in Articles V and VI , shall apply with respect
to all claims arising from incidents that occurred on or after

2502

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

December 7, 1941 and before November 1 , 1945 and remaining unsettled as of the date of signature of this Agreement, the

Applicability of Articles.

payment or collection of all such claims being credited or debited to lend -lease and reverse lend-lease accounts . (3) Articles I to IV shall be applicable without territorial limitation. Articles V to VII shall be applicable to maritime navigation

on the high seas and to territorial waters and inland waterways of both countries.

Article IX

Entry into force. Post, p. 2506.

This Agreement will enter into force upon the date of signature.

bilTietryr.itorial applica- The Agreement is applicable, as to the Republic of France, to the

metropolitan territories , to the departments and territories overseas ,

to the associated states, to the trusteeships and to territories under

the protection of the Republic of France, and, as to the United States,

to the forty-eight states, to the District of Columbia, and to the

territories and island possessions of the United States.

68 STAT. ] FRANCE- MARITIME CLAIMS AND LITIGATION-MAR. 14, 1949

2503

ACCORD ENTRE LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS -UNIS ET LE GOUVERNEMENT FRANÇAIS RELATIF AUX DOMMAGES ET AUX CONFLITS MARITIMES

Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement

de la République Française, souhaitant éviter entre eux et entre leurs

nationaux des conflits en matière de transports maritimes , et désireux

d'appliquer les termes et l'esprit du paragraphe 6 (b) du Mémorandum

d'accord du 28 mai 1946 comportant règlement en matière de prêt-bail ,

d'aide réciproque, de surplus militaires et de créances de guerre, con-

viennent de ce qui suit:

Article I

Chacun des Gouvernements contractants renonce par le présent accord à toute réclamation contre l'autre Gouvernement , ou contre tout préposé ou représentant de ce Gouvernement dans tous les cas où ce préposé ou représentant a un recours contre son Gouvernement , procédant de :

(1 ) Pertes ou dommages causés aux navires, aux cargaisons, à tous les engins de navigation, aux installations côtières et portuaires fixes ou mobiles qui sont la propriété de l'un des Gouvernements, du fait de la navigation ou de l'exploitation , de la construction ou de la position des navires , des cargaisons, des engins de navigation, des installations côtières et portuaires fixes ou mobiles qui sont la propriété de l'autre Gouvernement ;

(2) Services d'assistance et de sauvetage, y compris les réparations provisoires qui en sont les conséquences, rendus par l'un des Gouvernements, ou par tout organisme possédé par ce dernier ou contrôlé par lui dans des conditions qui l'habilitent à effectuer cette renonciation au nom dudit organisme, à tout navire, cargaison ou fret qui est la propriété de l'autre Gouvernement ;

(3 ) Pertes ou dommages causés aux cargaisons qui sont la propriété de l'un des Gouvernements du fait du transport et de la manutention de celles-ci , et de pertes ou dommages causés aux navires ou aux cargaisons qui sont la propriété de l'un des Gouvernements du fait du transport et de la manutention des cargaisons de l'autre Gouvernement ;

(4) Contribution d'avaries communes incombant à l'autre Gouvernement , ou aux navires, cargaisons ou frets qui sont la propriété de ce Gouvernement. Chacun des Gouvernements s'engage de même à ne présenter, au sujet de navires ou cargaisons assurés par lui, aucune des réclamations qu'il pourrait faire valoir par voie de subrogation: 81939-52-PT. III- 14

2504

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
(a) directement contre l'autre Gouvernement, ou (b) dans tous les cas où l'autre Gouvernement déclare qu'il
devrait finalement supporter la charge de cette réclamation si elle était présentée.
(5 ) Rien dans cet article, ou dans d'autres dispositions du présent accord, ne devra être interprété comme une renonciation à une créance du Gouvernement français, en tant qu'assuré, résultant de polices d'assurances corps incombant au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis sur des navires affrétés coque nue au Gouvernement français et réaffrétés à temps au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis . Article II
Lorsque, dans un cas quelconque, des revendications pour lesquelles la renonciation n'est pas obligatoire aux termes du présent accord sont formulées en sus de réclamations qui font obligatoirement l'objet d'une telle renonciation ou en conjonction avec elles , et qu'il est nécessaire dans une procédure quelconque, y compris la procédure relative à la limitation de la responsabilité , de procéder à un règlement d'ordre, ou qu'il est nécessaire, en vue du règlement correct de toute opération de sauvetage ou avarie commune, que des valeurs soient estimées , les dispositions du présent accord ne seront pas applicables, et, en conséquence, des revendications qui, dans une autre hypothèse , auraient obligatoirement fait l'objet d'une renonciation aux termes du présent accord seront maintenues . Toutefois , le Gouvernement qui aurait des recouvrements à effectuer renoncera aux dits recouvrements ou, à son choix, adoptera toute autre solution conforme à l'objet du présent accord .
Article III
(1 ) Le terme "propriété" , tel qu'il est employé dans le présent accord , comprend tout intérêt que l'un des Gouvernements contractants peut avoir dans un navire ou une cargaison à raison de la prise en charge par lui des droits ou des responsabilités des propriétaires de ce navire ou de cette cargaison, soit par charte-partie, réquisition ou arrêt de prince , soit par l'effet d'une assurance ou indemnisation, ou de toute autre manière . Il en est ainsi nonobstant le fait qu'un tel intérêt a pu être assuré ou réassuré par des assureurs privés. Le terme "navire qui est la propriété d'un Gouvernement contractant" vise, sans s'y appliquer exclusivement, le navire affrété coque nue à l'un des Gouvernements contractants , ou réquisitionné par lui coque nue, ou affrété à temps ou utilisé de toute autre manière par ou pour l'un des Gouvernements contractants, dans des conditions d'exploitation telles qu'elles l'autorisent à appliquer le présent accord à l'égard dudit navire. Le terme "navire " comprend les navires de guerre .
(2) Chacun des Gouvernements déclare qu'en vertu du présent accord ou d'arrangements conclus en corrélation avec ledit accord, toute compagnie d'assurances auprès de laquelle il aura fait ou il pourra faire contracter une assurance sur tout navire

63 STAT. ] FRANCE-MARITIME CLAIMS AND LITIGATION-MAR. 14, 1949
ou cargaison qui est la propriété dudit Gouvernement, ou d'une administration ou d'un organisme appartenant en totalité audit Gouvernement, sera, toutes les fois qu'une renonciation prévue dans le présent accord serait applicable en l'absence de ladite assurance ,
(a) dégagée de toute responsabilité envers l'autre Gouvernement en ce qui concerne l'objet de l'assurance et f
(b) sans recours contre ledit autre Gouvernement.
(3) Pour atteindre pleinement le but visé par les dispositions de l'article I du présent accord , chacun des Gouvernements contractants veillera à ce que les armateurs des navires soumis aux dispositions du présent accord et à lui affrétés coque nue, ou les personnes intéressées par l'intermédiaire de ceux-ci auxdits navires, ne soient pas admis à poursuivre des réclamations du caractère défini à l'article I.
Article IV
Rien dans le présent accord ne pourra être interprété comme un abandon du droit de chaque Gouvernement contractant d'invoquer le cas échéant les immunités de souveraineté qui lui appartiennent.
Article V
En cas d'actions en revendication intentées ou sur le point d'être intentées contre l'un des deux Gouvernements devant les tribunaux de l'autre par les ressortissants de ce dernier relativement à des dommages rentrant dans les catégories pour lesquelles les deux Gouvernements ont décidé de renoncer à toute revendication en vertu de l'article I du présent accord, et en cas de demandes d'indemnité introduites par les ressortissants de l'un ou l'autre Gouvernement pour des dommages corporels imputables à des activités visées audit article I , le paiement ou toute autre liquidation interviendront comme dans le cas d'affaires relevant du prêt-bail et de l'aide réciproque , chaque Gouvernement effectuant le paiement, règlement ou toute autre liquidation définitive de toutes revendications de ce genre . D'une manière générale, l'un des Gouvernements contractants prendra, à la demande de l'autre, toutes mesures qui pourront être nécessaires en vue de mettre les navires et cargaisons qui sont la propriété dudit autre Gouvernement à l'abri de toute action judiciaire intentée devant un tribunal relevant du Gouvernement visé en premier lieu . Cette assistance sera accordée en ce qui concerne les actions intentées ou sur le point d'être intentées devant un tribunal relevant de l'un ou l'autre Gouvernement.
Article VI
Les réclamations de l'un des Gouvernements contre les ressortissants de l'autre, provenant d'événements maritimes, seront soumises à ce dernier pour suite à donner s'il le juge opportun , avant que les tribunaux relevant de ce Gouvernement n'en soient saisis. Les sommes recouvrées à ce titre seront imputées aux comptes de prêt-bail ou de l'aide réciproque.

2505

2506 Authentic texts.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Article VII
Chaque Gouvernement, après consultation de l'autre, déterminera la procédure pour l'instruction et la solution des réclamations dont le règlement lui incombe en vertu des articles V et VI.
Article VIII
(1 ) Les dispositions d'abandon réciproque des articles I à IV du présent accord s'appliquent à toutes réclamations nées d'événements survenus entre le 7 décembre 1941 inclus et le 1er juillet 1946 exclu .
(2) Les dispositions de prêt-bail ou d'aide réciproque des articles V et VI du présent accord s'appliquent à toutes réclamations nées d'événements survenus entre le 7 décembre 1941 inclus et le ler novembre 1945 exclu , et non encore réglées à la date de la signature du présent accord , les paiements en recouvrement se rapportant à ces réclamations étant imputés aux comptes de prêtbail ou d'aide réciproque.
(3) Les articles Ià IV du présent accord sont applicables sans limitation territoriale . Les articles V à VII sont applicables à la navigation maritime de haute mer et dans les eaux territoriales et intérieures des deux pays.
Article IX
Le présent accord entrera en vigueur à la date de sa signature . Il est applicable, en ce qui concerne la République Française , aux territoires métropolitains, aux départements et territoires d'outre- mer, aux Etats associés , aux territoires sous tutelle et aux territoires sous la protection de la République Française, et , en ce qui concerne les Etats-Unis , à leurs quarante-huit Etats, au District de Colombie et aux territoires et possessions insulaires des Etats-Unis .
DONE at Washington, in dupli- FAIT à Washington, en double cate, in the English and French exemplaire, en langue anglaise et languages, both texts being equally française, chaque texte faisant authentic, this 14th day of March, également foi, ce 14 mars 1949 . 1949 .
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS -UNIS D'AMERIQUE :
DEAN ACHESON Secretary of State ofthe United States of America
Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCE: POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE:
H BONNET Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the
United States of America Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire auprès du Gouvernement des Etats- Unis d'Amérique

63 STAT. ] FRANCE- FINANCIAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS --MAR. 14, 1949

2507

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting the settlement of certain financial claims and accounts . Signed at Washington March 14 , 1949 ; entered into force March 14, 1949.

March 14, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1936]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES AND THE GOVERNMENT OF FRANCE REGARDING SETTLEMENT OF CERTAIN RESIDUAL FINANCIAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of France have reached agreement as set forth below regarding final settlement of certain financial claims and accounts of each Government against the other which were not finally settled in the agreements set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding, and the Annexes thereto , between the Government of the United States of America and the Provisional Government of the French Republic signed on May 28 , 1946 regarding settlement for lend-lease, reciprocal aid , surplus war property, and claims , and in the exchange of notes of February 27, 1948 between the two Governments regarding expenditures of the United States Armed Forces in France and French overseas territories , or which have arisen independently of such agreements .
1. Amount Due

61 Stat., Pt.4, p.4175. 62 Stat. , Pt.3, p.3826.

The two Governments agree that the sum of $ 653,300,000 is the final revised net amount due from the Government of France to the Government of the United States pursuant to the terms of paragraph 2 of the Memorandum of Understanding of May 28 , 1946. This amount is made up (a) in part of amounts agreed upon in the said Memorandum of Understanding and the Annexes thereto and (b) in part of amounts agreed hereunder, consisting of (i ) amounts estimated at the time of the signing of the said Memorandum of Understanding and subject to revision and (ii) the net balance of additional financial accounts, claims and obligations settled hereunder.
This revised net amount is final and is not subject to amendment even if it should later be determined that any of the figures used in making up the balance were not accurate.
2. Terms of Payment

61 Stat., Pt.4, p.4175.

The revised net amount set forth in paragraph 1 of this Agree-

ment will be paid on the terms specified in paragraphs 3 and 5 of the Memorandum of Understanding of May 28, 1946.
3. Claims

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, pp. 4175, 4176.

During the course of the negotiations leading to this Agreement, representatives of the two Governments have discussed numerous claims of each Government against the other, with the objective

2508

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
of arriving at as comprehensive a settlement as possible and of obviating protracted negotiations between the two Governments . The following claims have been accepted by the Governments of the United States and France, respectively, and have been disposed of as indicated :
(a) Claims of the Government of the United States against the Government of France included in computing the revised net sum 'due under paragraph 1 of this Agreement :
(i) Pre V-J Day transfers :
(A) Petroleum for civilian use transferred to the Government of France in North Africa and Corsica after July 1 , 1945
(B) Fourteen ambulances delivered in 1944 to French North Africa
(ii) Post V-J Day transfers :
(A) Hospital beds transferred out of United States Army stocks in France
(B) Cost of material (including ocean freight) on French requisitions (FAN 10,013 through 10,040 exclusive of 10,017 , 10,019 , 10,030, 10,031 , 10,036 and 10,037) processed by the United States Navy and transferred to the Government of France after V-J Day
(C) Steel sheets transferred out of United States Army stocks in France
(D) Canned meat transferred out of United States Army stocks in France
(E) Tire-making material transferred out of United States Army stocks in France
(F ) Used trucks transferred out of United States Army stocks in Europe
(G) Clothing transferred out of United States Army stocks in France
(H ) Electrical equipment transferred out of United States Army stocks in France
(1 ) Air Training Program covering training of French Air Force personnel in the United States
(J) Air Maintenance Program covering the supply of equipment for maintenance of aircraft built in the United States
(K ) Hospitalization of French personnel in United States military hospitals
(L) Training of 30 French students in the Signal Corps Photographic School
(M) Expenses of French personnel with the United States Army Air Forces , September and October 1945

63 STAT. ] FRANCE- FINANCIAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS-MAR. 14, 1949
(N) Other overseas transfers of articles and services by the United States Army, including those for which payment has not previously been specifically requested
(0) Air Transport Command charges covering transport of Government of France personnel or cargo not eligible for lend-lease
(P) Army-Navy petroleum deliveries to the French Government overseas .
(b) Claims of the Government of France against the Government of the United States to be paid as indicated : (i) By delivery of $ 2,119,871.19 by the Government of the United States to the Government of France upon the signing of this Agreement :
(A) Losses on coal purchased and paid for by the Government of France from the Government of the United States and rendered useless by spontaneous combustion before arrival in France
(B) French Government deposits with United States Treasury and Navy Departments in excess of amounts required for cash reimbursement lend -lease requisitions on which deliveries have been completed .
(ii) By payment of $4,000,000 by the Government of the United States to the Government of France through deduction from agreed sums due and hereafter becoming due in respect of ships purchased by the Government of France from the United States Maritime Commission :
(A) Expenditures made by the Government of France for services rendered during the period from November 1 , 1945 to April 1 , 1946 to United States War Shipping Administration vessels in France and French overseas territories, and expenditures for such services rendered prior to such period for items not eligible for reciprocal aid.
(c) Claims of the Government of the United States against the Government of France to be paid by the Government of France under the terms of the exchange of letters , dated December 6 , 1947 , between the French Minister of Finance and the United States Central Field Commissioner for Europe :
(i) Rentals in the amount of $ 449,428.57 payable to the Government of the United States under agreements whereby certain United States Government surplus property was leased to the Government of France for the operation of harbor facilities at Cherbourg, Morlaix, Brest, St. Nazaire and Le Havre
(ii) Purchase price in the amount of $4,000,000 for 262 lendlease naval vessels sold to the Government of France.

2509

2510

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 Stat.

Post, p. 2512.

4. Specific Claims Waived
During the course of negotiations leading to this Agreement the following claims were among those considered by representatives of the two Governments and not accepted for payment or offset and, in consideration of the other provisions of this Agreement, are to be regarded as taken into account and waived under paragraph 8 of this Agreement :
(a) Claims presented by the Government of the United States:
(i ) Lien against SS NORMANDIE for damage to cargo of SS PARIS paid by the Government of the United States to lienors
(ii) Cost to the Government of the United States of hospital equipment delivered to France as installed in the SS COLOMBIE prior to the return of the vessel to the Government of France
(iii ) Cost to the Government of the United States of printing, transporting and services rendered in respect to supplemental French franc currency
(iv) Trucks delivered to French Somaliland on a cash reimbursable basis .
(b) Claims presented by the Government of France:
(i) French Telegraph Cable Company claims for cost of repairing damage for which the United States Armed Forces were responsible
(ii ) Jute bags requisitioned by the Government of the United States on or about April 27 , 1942
(iii ) Material supplied under cash reimbursement lend-lease requisitions for Continental France and French North Africa and rejected as unsatisfactory.

5. Maritime Claims (Knock-for-Knock)
As contemplated in paragraph 1 of the section entitled "U.S. Claims" in Annex 5 of the Memorandum of Understanding of May 61 Stat. , Pt.4 , p . 4189. 28 , 1946 , the two Governments, in a separate agreement, have agreed to the mutual waiver of intergovernmental claims arising from maritime accidents and for the handling by each Government on a lendlease and reverse lend-lease basis of claims asserted in its courts by its nationals against the other Government.
6. Patent Claims

The two Governments have agreed that, in implementing the provisions of paragraph 6 (c) of the Memorandum of Understanding 61 Stat. , Pt.4, p. 4176. of May 28 , 1946 relating to the use or infringement in war production prior to September 2 , 1945 of patent rights held by French residents , claims involving royalty payments in respect of such patent rights

63 STAT. ] FRANCE- FINANCIAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS- MAR. 14, 1949

2511

held by the United States Office of Alien Property will not be considered, by virtue of the possession of such payments by the Office of Alien Property, to be taken out of the category of "unpaid claims" referred to in the said paragraph 6 (c) , but royalty payments paid prior to May 28 , 1946 to French residents in respect of such patent rights and thereafter collected by the Office of Alien Property from such French residents shall not be considered as "unpaid claims" under the said paragraph 6 (c) .

7. Claims Excluded

(a) The following types of financial claims between the two Governments are not covered by this Agreement and will be dealt with in accordance with procedures already established or to be established :

(i) Claims of and against the United States War Shipping Administration and the United States Maritime Commission, or in which either of those Agencies is the ultimate beneficiary or is ultimately liable, unless the claim is otherwise specifically dealt with in this Agreement or in other agreements between the two Governments
(ii) Claims of and against the United States Reconstruction Finance Corporation and its subsidiaries
(iii) Claims of and against the United States Commodity Credit Corporation , except lend -lease claims .

(b) Neither this Agreement nor the Memorandum of Understanding of May 28 , 1946 covers claims presented in accordance with the practice whereby one government espouses a claim of one of its nationals and submits it through diplomatic channels to another government.

61 Stat., Pt.4, p.4175.

(c) Neither this Agreement nor the Memorandum of Understanding of May 28 , 1946 shall be deemed to bar the Government of France from making claims for and obtaining refunds , in total amount not in excess of $320,000 , from the United States Bureau of Internal Revenue of Federal manufacturers' excise taxes paid by the United States Treasury and Navy Departments on supplies and services purchased pursuant to cash reimbursement lend-lease requisitions of the Government of France and exported to France or French overseas territories . The Government of the United States agrees to cooperate with the Government of France in making arrangements to complete promptly the formal presentation of such claims to the Bureau of Internal Revenue. Claims of the Government of France for refunds of the above-mentioned excise taxes in excess of $320,000 have been taken into account in computing the revised net amount set forth in paragraph 1 of this Agreement .

2512

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

8. General Waiver of Claims

The two Governments hereby agree that all financial claims whatsoever of each Government against the other which:
(a) have arisen or may hereafter arise out of lend-lease or reciprocal aid, or
(b) otherwise have arisen or may hereafter arise out of incidents or transactions occurring on or after September 3, 1939 and prior to September 2 , 1945 connected with or incidental to the conduct of World War II , or
(c) have arisen or may hereafter arise out of the furnishing of supplies and services (including utilities, facilities, goods and properties) by the Armed Forces of the United States to the Government of France or its overseas territories , or by the Government of France to the Armed Forces of the United States, from September 2 , 1945 to December 31 , 1946 , inclusive ;
and which (i) are not otherwise dealt with in this Agreement, (ii) were not specifically dealt with in the Memorandum of Understanding of 61 Stat. , Pt.4, p.4175. May 28, 1946 and Annexes thereto, and (iii) were not specifically 62 Stat. , Pt.3, p.3826. dealt with in the exchange of notes of February 27, 1948 between the two Governments regarding expenditures of the United States Armed Forces in France and French overseas territories , are hereby waived , notwithstanding paragraph 6 (d) of the Memorandum of Under61 Stat. , Pt. 4, p.4177. standing of May 28, 1946 , whether or not the liability for payment was acknowledged and the method of computation agreed.
9. Surplus War Property
The United States Government has now delivered and the French Government has acquired possession of and title to the surplus war property described in the Memorandum of Understanding of May 28, 1946 under paragraph 1 of Annex 3a entitled Agreement Relating to the Transfer of Surplus United States Army and Navy Property and Installations in France and Certain French Overseas 61 Stat., Pt.4, p.4179. Territories . The United States Government hereby certifies that the quantity and value of the property received by the French Government is not materially different from that which was contemplated at the time of execution of that Agreement, and therefore the two Governments agree that the United States Government has fulfilled its obligations under that Agreement.
10. Miscellaneous Provisions

(a) The French Government will make no further payment to the United States Government for lend-lease articles heretofore or hereafter retransferred to the Government of
France by any third government where consent for the retransfer of the specific articles was given by the United States Government prior to the date of this Agreement.

63 STAT. ] FRANCE- FINANCIAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS-MAR. 14, 1949

2513

Any other provisions hereof notwithstanding, this Agreement does not affect the responsibility of the Government of France to settle with the Government of the United States for lend-lease articles heretofore or hereafter retransferred to the French Government from any third government where consent for the retransfer of the specific articles was not given by the United States Government prior to the date of this Agreement.

(b) To the extent that provisions of this Agreement are inconsistent with the provisions of any previous agreements or arrangements between the two Governments, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail . The Memorandum of Understanding of May 28, 1946 and Annexes thereto, the exchange of notes of February 27 , 1948 , and any other agreements or arrangements heretofore entered into be-

61 Stat., Pt.4, p. 4175 62 Stat., Pt.3. p.3826.

tween the two Governments , except in so far as they are not consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall remain in full force and effect. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall affect the obligations assumed under the Agreement Respecting Certain Marechal Joffre Claims signed on October 19, 1948 by representatives of the Governments of the United States of America, France, and Australia .
(c) This Agreement will enter into force upon the date of signature.

62 Stat., Pt.3, p. 2841.
Entry into force. Post, p. 2520.

2514

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

ACCORD ENTRE LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS ET LE GOUVERNEMENT FRANÇAIS RELATIF AU REGLEMENT DE CERTAINES CREANCES ET DE CERTAINS COMPTES FINANCIERS ENCORE EXISTANTS
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement de la République Française se sont mis d'accord , dans les conditions indiquées ci-dessous, sur le règlement définitif de certaines créances et de certains comptes financiers entre les deux Gouvernements qui n'ont pas été définitivement réglés par le Mémorandum d'accord et ses annexes conclu entre le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et le Gouvernement provisoire de la République Française le 28 mai 1946 et comportant règlement en matière de prêt-bail , d'aide réciproque , de surplus militaires et de créances de guerre, ni par l'échange de notes du 27 février 1948 entre les deux Gouvernements relatif aux dépenses des Forces Armées des Etats-Unis en France et dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, ou qui sont nés indépendamment desdits accords .
1. Montant dû
Les deux Gouvernements conviennent que la somme de $ 653.300.000 constitue le montant net revisé et définitif dû au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis par le Gouvernement français en application des dispositions du paragraphe 2 du Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946 . Ce montant est constitué (a) pour partie, des montants convenus dans le Mémorandum d'accord précité et ses annexes, et (b) pour partie , des montants convenus ci-après, à savoir (i ) les montants qui ont fait l'objet d'une évaluation lors de la signature dudit mémorandum et qui demeuraient sujets à révision , (ii ) le solde net des comptes, créances et obligations supplémentaires réglés ci- après .
Ce montant net revisé présente un caractère définitif et n'est pas susceptible d'amendement, même s'il apparaît ultérieurement que l'un des chiffres retenus pour la détermination du solde n'était pas exact.
2. Conditions de paiement
Le montant net revisé fixé au paragraphe 1 du présent accord sera payé dans les conditions prévues aux paragraphes 3 et 5 du Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946.
3. Créances litigieuses
Au cours des négociations qui ont abouti au présent accord , les représentants des deux Gouvernements ont discuté de nombreuses créances litigieuses que chacun des deux Gouvernements possède sur l'autre , en vue d'arriver à un règlement aussi général que possible et afin d'éviter des négociations prolongées entre les deux Gouvernements .

63 STAT. ] FRANCE- FINANCIAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS-MAR. 14, 1949
Les créances litigieuses suivantes ont été acceptées par les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis et de la France respectivement et ont été réglées comme suit :
(a) Créances du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis sur le Gouvernement français incluses dans le calcul du montant net de la dette visée au paragraphe 1 du présent accord: (i) Transferts antérieurs au Jour V-J (2 septembre 1945 ) :
(A) Produits pétroliers destinés à l'usage civil et fournis au Gouvernement français en Afrique du Nord et en Corse après le 1er juillet 1945
(B) 14 ambulances livrées en 1944 à l'Afrique du Nord française
(ii) Transferts postérieurs au Jour V-J (2 septembre 1945 ) :
(A) Lits d'hôpitaux provenant des stocks en France de l'Armée américaine
(B) Coût des matériels (y compris le fret ) fournis sur réquisitions françaises auprès de la Marine des EtatsUnis (FAN 10,013-10,040 , à l'exclusion de 10,017 , 10,019 , 10,030 , 10,031 , 10,036 et 10,037 ) et livrés au Gouvernement français après le Jour V-J (2 septembre 1945)
(C) Tôles d'acier provenant des stocks en France de l'Armée américaine
(D) Viande de conserve provenant des stocks en France de l'Armée américaine
(E ) Matériel pour la fabrication de pneus provenant des stocks en France de l'Armée américaine
(F) Camions usagés provenant des stocks en France de l'Armée américaine
(G) Vêtements provenant des stocks en France de l'Armée américaine
(H ) Equipements électriques provenant des stocks en France de l'Armée américaine
(I) Programme d'entraînement des forces aériennes, y compris l'entraînement aux Etats-Unis de personnels de l'Armée de l'Air française
(J) Programme d'entretien du matériel aérien , y compris la fourniture d'équipements destinés à l'entretien d'appareils construits aux Etats-Unis
(K) Hospitalisation de personnels français dans des hôpitaux militaires américains
(L) Frais d'entraînement de 30 stagiaires français à l'Ecole de Photographie du Corps de Signalisation
(M ) Dépenses de personnels français détachés auprès de l'Armée de l'Air des Etats-Unis , en septembre et octobre 1945

2515

2516

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
(N) Autres fournitures d'articles et de services effectuées outre-mer par l'Armée américaine, y compris celles pour lesquelles une demande spéciale de paiement n'a pas été présentée antérieurement
(0) Créances du Commandement des Transports aériens concernant le transport de personnel ou de marchandises du Gouvernement français ne relevant pas du prêt-bail
(P) Fournitures de produits pétroliers faites par l'Armée et la Marine américaines au Gouvernement français dans les territoires d'outre-mer.
(b) Créances du Gouvernement français sur le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis , qui seront réglées comme suit :
(i) Par la remise de $2.119.871,19 par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis au Gouvernement français à la signature du présent accord:
(A) Pertes sur du charbon acheté et payé par le Gouvernement français au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et rendu inutilisable par suite de combustion spontanée avant son arrivée en France
(B) Dépôts du Gouvernement français auprès de la Trésorerie et du Département de la Marine des Etats-Unis excédant les montants nécessaires pour le remboursement de réquisitions prêt-bail payables au comptant, pour lesquelles des livraisons ont été effectuées .
(ii ) Par le paiement de $4.000.000 par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis au Gouvernement français, effectué par compensation à concurrence des montants convenus de sommes exigibles ou devant ultérieurement devenir exigibles sur des bâtiments achetés par le Gouvernement français à la Commission Maritime des Etats-Unis:
(A) Dépenses faites par le Gouvernement français pour services rendus pendant la période du 1er novembre 1945 au 1er avril 1946 à des bâtiments de l'Administration de Guerre de la Marine Marchande des Etats-Unis en France et dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, et dépenses faites pour de tels services rendus avant ladite période pour des objets ne relevant pas de l'aide réciproque .
(c) Créances du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis sur le Gouvernement français qui doivent être réglées par le Gouvernement français dans les conditions prévues par les dispositions de l'échange de lettres en date du 6 décembre 1947 entre le Ministre des Finances de France et le Commissaire Central des Etats -Unis pour le théâtre européen:
(i) Loyers s'élevant à la somme de $449.428,57 et payables au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis en vertu d'accords relatifs

63 STAT. ] FRANCE- FINANCIAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS- MAR. 14, 1949
à la location par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis au Gouvernement français de certains biens en surplus pour l'utilisation des installations portuaires de Cherbourg, Morlaix, Brest, Saint-Nazaire et Le Havre (ii) Prix d'achat, s'élevant à $4.000.000 , de 262 bâtiments militaires du prêt-bail vendus au Gouvernement français .
4. Créances particulières annulées
Au cours des négociations qui ont conduit au présent accord, les créances litigieuses suivantes ont été parmi celles qui ont été examinées par les représentants des deux Gouvernements, qui n'ont pas été retenues en vue d'un paiement ou d'une compensation et qui , eu égard aux autres stipulations du présent accord , doivent être regardées comme ayant été prises en considération et annulées conformément au paragraphe 8 du présent accord:
(a) Créances litigieuses présentées par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis :
(i) Hypothèque sur le paquebot "NORMANDIE" à raison de dommages à la cargaison du paquebot "PARIS " qui ont été réglés par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis aux créanciers hypothécaires
(ii) Frais supportés par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pour le matériel sanitaire remis à la France tel qu'installé sur le paquebot "COLOMBIE" avant que ce paquebot ait été restitué au Gouvernement français
(iii) Frais supportés par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pour l'impression, le transport et la manutention de billets complémentaires en francs français
(iv) Camions fournis à la Côte française des Somalis sur la base d'un remboursement au comptant.
(b) Créances litigieuses présentées par le Gouvernement français :
(i) Créance de la Compagnie française des Cables télégraphiques pour les frais de réparation des dommages dont les Forces Armées des Etats-Unis étaient responsables
(ii) Sacs de jute réquisitionnés par le Gouvernement des EtatsUnis à une date proche du 27 avril 1942
(iii ) Matériel livré à la France métropolitaine et à l'Afrique du Nord française au titre des réquisitions de prêt-bail payables au comptant et refusé en raison de ses défectuosités .
5. Créances maritimes
Ainsi qu'il est prévu au paragraphe 1 de la section intitulée "Créances des Etats-Unis" de l'annexe 5 du Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946 , les deux Gouvernements , par un accord séparé, sont convenus d'annuler de part et d'autre certaines créances gouvernementales résultant d'accidents de mer, et sont convenus que chaque Gouvernement réglera sur la base du prêt-bail et de l'aide réciproque

2517

2518

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
certaines revendications formulées devant ses Tribunaux par ses nationaux contre l'autre Gouvernement.
6. Créances concernant les brevets d'invention
Les deux Gouvernements sont convenus que, pour l'application des stipulations du paragraphe 6 (c) du Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946 relatif à l'usage ou à la violation , pour une production de guerre antérieure au 2 septembre 1945 , des droits de brevets appartenant à des personnes résidant en France ou dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, les créances relatives à des paiements de redevances concernant de tels droits de brevets détenus par l'Office de la Propriété Etrangère des Etats-Unis ne seront pas considérées , du fait de la détention de ces sommes par l'Office de la Propriété Etrangère , comme exclues de la catégorie des "créances non encore réglées" au sens dudit paragraphe 6 (c) , mais les paiements de redevances effectués au titre de tels droits de brevets avant le 28 mai 1946 à des personnes résidant en France ou dans les territoires français d'outre-mer et recouvrés après cette date sur ces personnes par le Bureau de la Propriété Etrangère ne seront pas considérés comme "créances non encore réglées" au sens dudit paragraphe 6 (c) .
7. Créances exclues de l'accord
(a) Les catégories suivantes de créances financières existant entre les deux Gouvernements ne sont pas couvertes par le présent accord et seront traitées suivant des procédures déjà en vigueur ou qui seront établies par la suite :
(i) Créances en faveur et à l'encontre de l'Administration de Guerre de la Marine Marchande des Etats-Unis et de la Commission Maritime des Etats-Unis, ou dont l'une de ces Administrations serait le bénéficiaire ou le débiteur final, à moins qu'il n'en soit par ailleurs spécialement traité dans le présent accord ou dans d'autres accords entre les deux Gouvernements
(ii) Créances en faveur et à l'encontre de la "Reconstruction Finance Corporation" et de ses filiales
(iii) Créances en faveur et à l'encontre de la "Commodity Credit Corporation" , à l'exception des créances prêt-bail .
(b) Ni le présent accord, ni le Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946 ne couvrent les réclamations présentées conformément à la coutume suivant laquelle un Gouvernement fait sienne une réclamation de l'un de ses nationaux et la soumet à l'autre Gouvernement par la voie diplomatique.
(c) Ni le présent accord , ni le Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946 ne pourront avoir pour effet d'empêcher le Gouvernement français de présenter des réclamations et d'obtenir du "Bureau of Internal Revenue", dans la limite d'un montant total de $320.000 , des remboursements de taxes fédérales d'excise sur les producteurs industriels payées par la Trésorerie

63 STAT. ] FRANCE- FINANCIAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS-MAR. 14, 1949
des Etats-Unis et le Département de la Marine des Etats-Unis sur des fournitures et prestations acquises au titre de réquisitions du Gouvernement français en prêt-bail remboursable au comptant et exportées vers la France ou les territoires français d'outre-mer. Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis convient d'aider le Gouvernement français à conclure les arrangements destinés à compléter rapidement la présentation officielle de ces réclamations au "Bureau of Internal Revenue" . Les réclamations du Gouvernement français tendant au remboursement des taxes d'excise mentionnées ci-dessus , en excès de $320.000, ont été prises en considération dans le calcul du montant net revisé figurant au paragraphe 1 du présent accord .
8. Annulation générale de créances
Les deux Gouvernements conviennent par les présentes que toutes les créances financières, quelles qu'elles soient, de chaque Gouvernement à l'égard de l'autre , qui:
(a) sont nées ou pourraient naître ultérieurement du prêt-bail ou de l'aide réciproque,
(b) sont nées ou pourraient naître ultérieurement d'événements ou transactions survenus le 3 septembre 1939 ou après cette date et avant le 2 septembre 1945 en relation avec, ou à l'occasion de la conduite de la seconde guerre mondiale ,
(c) sont nées ou pourraient naître ultérieurement de la fourniture de biens et prestations (y compris des travaux, installations, marchandises et autres biens) par les Forces Armées des EtatsUnis au Gouvernement français ou aux territoires français d'outre-mer, ou par le Gouvernement français aux Forces Armées des Etats-Unis, du 2 septembre 1945 au 31 décembre 1946 inclus ;
et qui (i ) ne font pas l'objet d'autres dispositions dans le présent accord , (ii) n'ont pas fait l'objet de dispositions particulières dans le Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946 ou dans ses annexes, et (iii ) n'ont pas fait l'objet de dispositions spéciales dans l'échange de lettres du 27 février 1948 entre les deux Gouvernements relatif aux dépenses des Forces Armées des Etats-Unis en France et dans les territoires français d'outre-mer, sont et demeurent annulées , nonobstant le paragraphe 6 (d ) du Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946 , alors même qu'une obligation de paiement a été antérieurement reconnue et un mode de règlement convenu .
9. Surplus de guerre
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis a maintenant effectué remise, et le Gouvernement français a acquis titre et possession , des surplus de guerre visés au Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946 conformément au paragraphe 1 de l'annexe 3a intitulée "Accord relatif à la cession des biens et installations en surplus de l'Armée et de la Marine des Etats-Unis se trouvant en France et dans certains territoires français

2519

2520

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Authentic texts.

d'outre-mer " . Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis certifie par les présentes que la quantité et la valeur des biens reçus par le Gouvernement français ne diffèrent pas substantiellement de celles prévues au moment de la conclusion du Mémorandum d'accord , et les deux Gouvernements conviennent en conséquence que le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis s'est acquitté des obligations qui lui incombaient au titre dudit accord.
10. Dispositions diverses
(a) Le Gouvernement français n'aura plus d'autres paiements à effectuer au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pour des biens fournis en prêt-bail qui ont été, ou pourront être ultérieurement, rétrocédés au Gouvernement français par un tiers Gouvernement, dans le cas où le Gouvernement des EtatsUnis a, antérieurement à la date du présent accord, autorisé une telle rétrocession de biens dûment spécifiés . Nonobstant toutes autres stipulations du présent accord , le présent accord ne modifie pas la responsabilité qui incombe au Gouvernement français de traiter avec le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis du règlement des biens fournis en prêt-bail qui ont pu ou pourront être rétrocédés au Gouvernement français par un tiers Gouvernement , dans le cas où le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis n'a pas autorisé une telle rétrocession de biens dûment spécifiés antérieurement à la date du présent accord.
(b) Dans la mesure où les stipulations du présent accord sont en contradiction avec celles de tout accord ou arrangement antérieur entre les deux Gouvernements , celles du présent accord prévaudront . Le Mémorandum d'accord du 28 mai 1946 et ses annexes , l'échange de lettres du 27 février 1948 , ainsi que tous autres accords ou arrangements passés jusqu'ici entre les deux Gouvernements, demeureront en vigueur, sauf dans la mesure où leurs stipulations ne sont pas conciliables avec celles du présent accord . Aucune des stipulations portées au présent accord ne peut porter atteinte aux obligations contractées dans l'accord concernant certaines créances relatives au "MARECHAL JOFFRE", signé le 19 octobre 1948 par les représentants des Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de la France et de l'Australie .
(c) Le présent accord entrera en vigueur dès la date de sa signature .
DONE at Washington , in dupli- FAIT à Washington, en double cate, in the English and French exemplaire, en langue anglaise et languages , both texts being française , chaque texte faisant equally authentic, this 14th day également foi, ce 14 mars 1949 . of March, 1949 .

63 STAT. ] FRANCE- FINANCIAL CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS- MAR. 14, 1949
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE:
DEAN ACHESON Secretary of State of the United States of America
Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCE : POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE :
H BONNET Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the
United States of America Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire auprès du Gouvernement des Etats- Unis d'Amérique

2521

2522

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

June 20, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1937]

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting an Army mission to Peru. Signed at Washington June 20, 1949; entered into force June 20, 1949.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CONVENIO ENTRE EL GOGOVERNMENT OF THE BIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNITED STATES OF AMERI- UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y EL CA AND THE GOVERNMENT GOBIERNO DE LA REPU. OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU BLICA DEL PERU

In conformity with the re- De conformidad con la solicitud

request of the Government of the del Gobierno de la República del Republic of Peru to the Govern- Perú al Gobierno de los Estados ment of the United States of Amer- Unidos de América , el Presidente ica, the President of the United de los Estados Unidos de América States of America has authorized ha autorizado el nombramiento de

the appointment of officers and oficiales y personal subalterno del subordinate personnel of the Army ejército de los Estados Unidos of the United States as members como miembros de una Misión

of a United States Army Mission Militar de los Estados Unidos en to Peru for training purposes, in la República del Perú para fines accordance with the conditions de instrucción de acuerdo con las

stipulated below :

condiciones que se estipulan a continuación :

TITLE I

TITULO I

Purpose and Duration

Objeto y Duración

ARTICLE 1. The purpose of this ARTICULO 1. El objeto de esta

Mission is to cooperate with the Misión es el de cooperar con el

Minister of War of the Republic Ministro de Guerra de la Repú-

of Peru and with the officers of the blica del Perú y con los oficiales del

Peruvian Army in order to in- ejército peruano para aumentar la

crease the military efficiency of eficiencia militar del ejército del

the Peruvian Army.

Perú.

ARTICLE 2. This Mission shall ARTICULO 2. Esta Misión fun-

continue for a period of four (4) cionará por un período de cuatro years , from the date of the signing (4) años a partir de la fecha de la of this Agreement by the ac- firma de este Convenio por los credited representatives of the representantes acreditados del Government of the United States Gobierno de los Estados Unidos of America and the Government of de América y del Gobierno de la the Republic of Peru, unless pre- República del Perú, a menos que viously terminated or extended as se termine o se prorrogue como se hereinafter provided . Any mem- dispone más adelante. Cualquier ber of the Mission may be re- miembro de la Misión podrá ser placed by the Government of the reemplazado por el Gobierno de

63 STAT. ]

PERU-ARMY MISSION-JUNE 20, 1949

2523

United States of America after los Estados Unidos de América

the expiration of two years of después de la expiración de dos

service, in which case a replace- años de servicio, en cuyo caso se

ment shall be furnished .

nombrará a otro miembro para

que lo reemplace. ARTICLE 3. If the Government ARTICULO 3. Si el Gobierno de iceEsxotfeMnissisoinono.f serv-

of the Republic of Peru should de- la República del Perú deseare que sire to extend the services of the los servicios de la Misión se prorro-

Mission beyond the stipulated guen más allá del período esti-

period it shall make a proposal in pulado, hará una propuesta por

writing to that effect six months escrito a tal efecto seis meses

before the expiration of this Agree- antes de la expiración de este

ment.

Convenio.

Termination of ARTICLE 4. This Agreement may ARTICULO 4. Este Convenio agreement.

be terminated before the expira- podrá terminarse antes de la ex-

tion of the period of four (4) years piración del período de cuatro (4 )

prescribed in Article 2 or before años prescritos en el Artículo 2 , o

the expiration of the extension antes de la expiración de la pró-

authorized in Article 3, in the rroga autorizada en el Artículo 3 ,

following manner:

de la manera siguiente:

(a) At the request of either of (a) A petición de uno u otro de the Governments provided the los Gobiernos, siempre que lo

other Government is notified in notifique por escrito al otro Go-

writing three (3) months in ad- bierno con tres (3) meses de anti-

vance .

cipación.

(b) By the recall of all the per- (b) Por el retiro de todo el

sonnel of the Mission by the personal de la Misión por el Government of the United States Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

of America in the public interest de América, en interés público de of the United States of America, los Estados Unidos de América ,

without the necessity of compli- sin necesidad de cumplir con la ance with provision (a) of this disposición (a) de este Artículo . Article .

ARTICLE 5. This Agreement is ARTICULO 5. Este Convenio está subject to cancellation upon the sujeto a cancelación por iniciativa, initiative of either the Govern- ya sea del Gobierno de los Estados ment of the United States of Unidos de América o del Gobierno

Cancellation in case of hostilities.

America or the Government of de la República del Perú, en cualthe Republic of Peru, at any time quier momento, cuando uno u

during the period in which either otro de los dos Gobiernos se vea

of the Governments is involved in envuelto en hostilidades internas

domestic or foreign hostilities .

o externas.

TITLE II

TITULO II

Organization and Personnel

Organización y Personal

ARTICLE 6. This Mission shall ARTICULO 6. Esta Misión estará consist of such personnel of the constituída por el personal del Army of the United States of ejército de los Estados Unidos de America as may be agreed upon América que acuerden el Ministro

2524

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

by the Minister of War of the Re- de Guerra de la República del public of Peru through his author- Perú, por medio de su represenized representative in Washington tante autorizado en Washington, and the Department of the Army y la Secretaría del Ejército de los of the United States of America . Estados Unidos de América.

TITLE III

TITULO III

Duties, Rank and Precedence

Deberes, Grado y Precedencia

ARTICLE 7. The members of ARTICULO 7. Los miembros de

the Mission shall be responsible la Misión, por conducto del Jefe through the Chief of Mission and de la Misión y del Inspector

the Inspector General of the General del ejército del Perú,

Peruvian Army to the Minister of serán responsables ante el Minis-

War of the Republic of Peru .

tro de Guerra de la República del

Perú .

ARTICULO 8. Los miembros de ARTICLE 8. The personnel of the Mission shall perform such duties la Misión ejercerán sus funciones
as may be agreed upon by the según lo acuerden el Inspector
Inspector General of the Peruvian General del ejército del Perú y el
Army and the Chief of the Jefe de la Misión .

Mission . ARTICLE 9. Each member of

ARTICULO 9. Cada miembro de

the Mission shall serve on the la Misión desempeñará sus funMission with the rank he holds ciones en ella con el grado que

Benefits, etc.

in the Army of the United States tenga en el ejército de los Estados

and shall wear the uniform of his Unidos y usará el uniforme de su

rank in the Army of the United grado en el ejército de los Estados

States, but shall have precedence Unidos, pero tendrá precedencia over all Peruvian Officers of the sobre todos los oficiales peruanos

same rank.

del mismo grado .

ARTICLE 10. Each member of ARTICULO 10. Cada miembro

the Mission shall be entitled to de la Misión tendrá derecho a

all benefits and privileges which todos los beneficios y privilegios

the regulations of the Peruvian que los reglamentos del ejército

Army provide for Peruvian officers del Perú otorguen a los oficiales

and enlisted men of corresponding peruanos y al personal subalterno

rank .

de grado correspondiente.

Disciplinary regulations.

ARTICLE 11. The personnel of ARTICULO 11. El personal de la

the Mission shall be governed by Misión se regirá por las orde-

Compensation.

the disciplinary regulations of the nanzas militares del ejército de

United States Army.

los Estados Unidos.

ARTICLE 12. Members of the ARTICULO 12. Los miembros de

Mission shall receive from the la Misión recibirán del Gobierno

Government of the Republic of de la República del Perú la remuPeru such net annual compensa- neración neta anual, pagadera en tion, payable in United States moneda de los Estados Unidos, currency, as may be agreed upon que acuerden los dos Gobiernos by the two Governments for each para cada miembro . Esta remumember. This compensation shall neración se pagará en doce (12 )

63 STAT. ]

PERU-ARMY MISSION-JUNE 20, 1949

2525

be paid in twelve (12 ) equal mensualidades iguales, que ven-

monthly installments, each of cerán y serán pagaderas el último which shall be due and payable día de cada mes. on the last day of the month.
The said compensation shall not La remuneración no estará su-

be subject to any tax now or here- jeta a ningún impuesto en vigor after in effect of the Government actualmente o que imponga en el

of the Republic of Peru or of any futuro el Gobierno de la República of its political or administrative del Perú o cualquiera de sus subsubdivisions . Should there , how- divisiones políticas o administra-

ever, at present or while this tivas. Sin embargo , si al presente Agreement is in effect, be any o durante la vigencia de este Con-

taxes that might affect this com- venio existieren impuestos que

pensation, such taxes shall be paid pudiesen afectar esta remuneraby the Minister of War of the ción, tales impuestos serán pagaRepublic of Peru , in order to com- dos por el Ministro de Guerra de

ply with the provision of this la República del Perú con el objeto

Article that the compensation de cumplir con la disposición de

agreed upon shall be net .

este Artículo al efecto de que la

remuneración convenida sea neta .

ARTICLE 13. The compensation ARTICULO 13. La remuneración

agreed upon as indicated in the convenida de acuerdo con el Ar-

preceding Article shall commence tículo precedente, comenzará en

upon the date of departure from la fecha en que cada miembro de

the United States of America of la Misión parta de los Estados

each member of the Mission , and, Unidos de América y, excepto lo

except as otherwise expressly pro- que expresamente se disponga en

vided in this Agreement , shall con- contrario en este Convenio, con-

tinue, following the termination of tinuará después de que termine

duty with the Mission, for the sus servicios en la Misión , por el

return voyage to the United States tiempo que dure su viaje de re-

of America and thereafter for the greso a los Estados Unidos de

period of any accumulated leave América y por el período de

which may be due.

licencia acumulada a que tenga

derecho .

ARTICLE 14. The compensation ARTICULO 14. La remuneración

due for the period of the return que se adeude por el período que trip and accumulated leave shall dure el viaje de regreso y por el

be paid to a detached member of de la licencia acumulada se pagará the Mission before his departure al miembro de la Misión que haya from the Republic of Peru, and sido retirado , antes de su partida

such payment shall be computed de la República del Perú , y el for travel by the shortest usually pago se calculará a base de viaje traveled route to the port of entry por la ruta más corta que comúnin the United States of America, mente se use hasta el puerto de

regardless of the route and method entrada a los Estados Unidos de

of travel used by the member of América, cualquiera que sea la

the Mission.

ruta y medio de transporte que

use el miembro de la Misión.

Tax exemption.

2526

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Travel accommoda-

tions.

ARTICLE 15. The Government ARTICULO 15. El Gobierno del

of Peru shall provide each member Perú proporcionará a cada miemof the Mission, his wife and de- bro de la Misión, a su esposa e

pendent children , with round trip hijos no emancipados , pasajes de

first class accommodations for primera clase de ida y vuelta por

travel required and performed la ruta más corta comúnmente

under this Agreement by the empleada, para los viajes que se

shortest usually traveled route requieran y se efectúen de conforbetween the Port of Embarkation midad con este Convenio , entre in the United States of America el puerto de embarque en los

Shipment gage, etc.

of bag-

and his official residence in Peru . Estados Unidos de América y su residencia oficial en el Perú.
For travel in both directions, Tanto para el viaje de ida como the expenses of transportation of para el de regreso , el Gobierno de

baggage , household goods , and la República del Perú pagará automobile of each member of también los gastos de transporte

the Mission shall be paid by the de los efectos domésticos , equipaje Government of the Republic of y automóvil , de cada miembro de Peru ; this shall include all neces- la Misión ; esto comprende todos sary expenses incident to unload- los gastos necesarios relacionados

ing upon arrival in the Republic con la descarga a la llegada a la of Peru , cartage to and from República del Perú , acarreo a la residence, and packing and load- residencia y desde la residencia y

ing upon departure from the embalaje y carga a la partida de Republic of Peru . The trans- la República del Perú . El transportation of baggage, household porte de los efectos domésticos, goods, and automobile shall be equipaje y automóvil se hará en made in a single shipment and un solo embarque, y todo emall subsequent shipments shall be barque subsiguiente correrá por at the expense of the respective cuenta de los respectivos miemmembers of the Mission except bros de la Misión, excepto cuando as otherwise provided for in this se disponga en contrario en este Agreement, or when such ship- Convenio, o cuando tales emments are necessitated by cir- barques sean necesarios por circumstances beyond their control . cunstancias ajenas a su voluntad . The Peruvian Government shall El Gobierno del Perú, conforme not be responsible under the terms a los términos de este Convenio, of this Agreement for transpor- no será responsable de los gastos tation expenses of personnel who de transporte del personal que se join the Mission for temporary una a la Misión para prestar

Exemption from customs duties.

service, but such expenses will servicios temporales, pero tales

be the subject of separate nego- gastos serán objeto de negocia-

tiations in each case.

ciones por separado en cada caso .

ARTICLE 16. The baggage , ARTICULO 16. El equipaje, efec-

household goods, and automobile tos domésticos y automóviles de of all members of the Mission todos los miembros de la Misión

accredited and nonaccredited as acreditados y no acreditados , como well as articles imported by the también los artículos que importen members of the Mission for their los miembros de la Misión para personal use and for the use of su uso personal y para el uso de

63 STAT. ]

PERU-ARMY MISSION-JUNE 20, 1949

2527

members of their families shall be los miembros de sus familias

exempt from customs duties, pro- estarán exentos de derechos de

vided such importations are au- aduana siempre que tales importa-

thorized by the Chief of the ciones sean autorizadas por el

Mission .

Jefe de la Misión.

ARTICLE 17. If the services of ARTICULO 17. Si los servicios de

any member of the Mission should algún miembro de la Misión fueren be terminated by the Government terminados por el Gobierno de los of the United States of America Estados Unidos de América antes

before the completion of two (2) de cumplir dos (2) años de seryears of service except as estab- vicio, excepto lo que se dispone en lished in Article 5 of this Agree- el Artículo 5 de este Convenio, las ment the provisions of Article 15 disposiciones del Artículo 15 no

Ante, p. 2523.

shall not apply to the return trip . serán aplicables al viaje de

regreso .

If the services of any member

Si los servicios de algún miem- Return trip expenses of members serving

of the Mission should terminate bro de la Misión deben terminar less than 2 years, etc.

or be terminated before the com- o se terminan antes de cumplir

pletion of two (2) years of service dos (2 ) años de servicio por alguna

for any other reason, including razón distinta, inclusive las que those established in Article 5 , such establece el Artículo 5, tal miemmember shall receive from the bro recibirá del Gobierno del Perú

Government of Peru all compen- toda su remuneración, emolusation, emoluments, and perqui- mentos y obvenciones como si sites as though he had completed hubiese cumplido dos (2) años de two (2) years of service, but the servicio, pero la remuneración additional compensation shall ter- adicional terminará como se disminate as provided in Article 13. pone en el Artículo 13. No obs-

Ante, p. 2525.

However, should the Government tante, si el Gobierno de los of the United States of America Estados Unidos de América retira

recall any member for breach of algún miembro por infracción de la discipline the cost of the return disciplina , los gastos de regreso de to the United States of America tal miembro a los Estados Unidos

of such member, his family, bag- de América, los de su familia,

gage, household goods shall not equipaje y efectos domésticos no

be borne by the Government of serán sufragados por el Gobierno

Peru.

del Perú .

ARTICLE 18. Compensation for

ARTICULO

18. Los

gastos

de

trCaonmsppeonrstaattiioonn

for and

traveling expenses.

transportation and travel expenses transporte y de viaje en la Re-

in the Republic of Peru on official pública del Perú para asuntos

business of the Government of oficiales del Gobierno del Perú

Peru shall be provided by the serán sufragados por el Gobierno Government of Peru in accordance del Perú conforme a las disposiwith the provisions of Article 10. ciones del Artículo 10 .
ARTICLE 19. The Government ARTICULO 19. El Gobierno de la

Ante, p. 2524.
Automobile for Chief of Mission.

of the Republic of Peru shall pro- República del Perú proporcionará vide the Chief of the Mission with al Jefe de la Misión un automóvil

a suitable automobile with chauf- adecuado , con chófer, para su uso

feur for use on official business . en asuntos oficiales . El Gobierno 81939-52- PT. III- 15

2528

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Office space, etc.

Suitable motor transportation de la República del Perú , a soliciwith chauffeur shall, on call by the tud del Jefe de la Misión, proporChief of Mission, be made avail- cionará transporte adecuado en able by the Government of Peru automóvil con chófer, a los miemfor use by the members of the bros de la Misión para el uso en las Mission for the conduct of the funciones oficiales de la Misión . official business of the Mission.
ARTICLE 20. The Government ARTICULO 20. El Gobierno de la

of the Republic of Peru shall pro- República del Perú proporcionara vide suitable office space and facil- oficinas y facilidades adecuadas

ities for use of the Chief of the para uso del Jefe de la Misión y

Mission and subordinate members. los miembros subalternos.

Transportation of ARTICLE 21. If any member of ARTICULO 21. Si falleciere en la remains in case of

death.

the Mission or any member of his República del Perú un miembro de

family should die in the Republic la Misión o alguno de sus famiof Peru, the Government of the liares, el Gobierno de la República Republic of Peru shall have the del Perú hará que el cadáver se body transported to such place in transporte al lugar de los Estados the United States of America as Unidos de América que indiquen the surviving members of the los miembros sobrevivientes de la

family may decide, but the cost familia ; pero el costo para el to the Government of the Repub- Gobierno de la República del lic of Peru shall not exceed the Perú no excederá el costo del

cost of transporting the remains transporte del cadáver del lugar from the place of decease to New del fallecimiento a la ciudad de

York City. Should the deceased Nueva York. Si el finado hubiere be a member of the Mission , his sido miembro de la Misión, sus services with the Mission shall be servicios se darán por terminados a considered to have terminated los quince ( 15 ) días de su muerte.

tioRneftourrfnamitlrya.nsporta

fifteen (15) days after his death . Se proporcionará transporte de Return transportation to New regreso a la ciudad de Nueva York York City for the wife and de- para la esposa e hijos no emancipendent children of the deceased pados del miembro extinto y para

Ante, p. 2526.

member and for their household su equipaje, efectos domésticos y effects, baggage, and automobile automóvil , de acuerdo con las shall be provided as prescribed disposiciones del Artículo 15. in Article 15. All compensation Toda remuneración que se adeude

due the deceased member, includ- al miembro extinto , inclusive el

ing salary for the fifteen (15) days sueldo por los quince ( 15 ) días

deCceoamspeednmseatmiboenr.due following his death, and reim- subsiguientes a su muerte y tobursement due the deceased mem- do reembolso que se adeude al ber for expenses and transporta- miembro fallecido por gastos de tion on trips made on official transporte en viajes realizados en business of the Government of misiones oficiales del Gobierno de

the Republic of Peru , shall be la República del Perú , se pagarán paid to the widow of the deceased a la viuda del miembro extinto o member or to any other person a cualquiera otra persona que hu-

who may have been designated in biere sido designada por escrito writing by the deceased while he por el miembro extinto mientras

63 STAT. ]

PERU-ARMY MISSION-JUNE 20, 1949

2529

was serving under the terms of prestaba sus servicios de conformi-

this Agreement ; but the widow or dad con las estipulaciones de este other person shall not be compen- Convenio ; pero no se compensará sated for accrued leave due but a la viuda ni a ninguna otra not taken by the deceased . All persona por la licencia acumulada

compensation due the widow or a que tenía derecho el finado y no other person designated by the disfrutada por él . Todo pago que deceased, under the provisions of se adeude a la viuda o a otra this Article, shall be paid before persona designada por el finado ,

the departure of the widow or según las disposiciones de este such other person from the Re- Artículo , se efectuará antes de la public of Peru and within fifteen partida de la viuda o de dicha otra

( 15) days after the death of the persona de la República del Perú

member.

y dentro de quince ( 15 ) días

después del fallecimiento de dicho

miembro .

TITLE V

TITULO V

Requisites and Conditions

Requisitos y Condiciones

ARTICLE 22. So long as this ARTICULO 22. Mientras este Agreement, or any extension there- Convenio o cualquiera de sus of, is in effect, the Government of prórrogas se halle en vigencia, the Republic of Peru shall not el Gobierno de la República del engage the services of any per- Perú no contratará los servicios

sonnel of any other foreign gov- del personal de ningún otro ernment for duties of any na- gobierno extranjero para servicios ture connected with the Peruvian de naturaleza alguna relacionados Army, except by mutual agree- con el ejército del Perú, excepto ment between the Government mediante mutuo acuerdo entre el of the United States of America Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

and the Government of the Repub- de América y el Gobierno de la

lic of Peru .

República del Perú.

ARTICLE 23. Each member of ARTICULO 23. Cada uno de los

the Mission shall agree not to miembros de la Misión conviene

Secrecy require. ments.

divulge or in any way disclose to en no divulgar, ni en revelar en

any foreign government or to any forma alguna a ningún gobierno

person whatsoever any secret or extranjero o a persona alguna, confidential matter of which he ningún secreto o asunto confi-

may become cognizant in his dencial del cual tenga conoci-

capacity as a member of the miento en su calidad de miembro

Mission.

de la Misión.

This requirement shall continue Esta obligación continuará viin force after the termination of gente después de que terminen sus service with the Mission and after servicios con la Misión y después

the expiration or cancellation of de que expire o se termine este

this Agreement or any extension Convenio o cualquiera de sus

thereof.

prórrogas .

ARTICLE 24. Throughout this ARTICULO 24. En todo este Con-

Agreement the term "family" is venio se entenderá que el término

"Family."

2530

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Annual leave.

limited to mean wife and depend- "familia" sólo abarca a la esposa y

ent children .

a los hijos no emancipados .

ARTICLE 25. Each member of ARTICULO 25. Cada miembro de

the Mission shall be entitled to la Misión tendrá derecho anual-

one month's annual leave with mente a un mes de licencia con

pay, or to a proportional part paga o a una parte proporcional thereof with pay for any frac- de dicha licencia con paga por tional part of a year. Unused cualquier fracción de un año .

portions of said leave shall be Las partes de dicha licencia que

cumulative from year to year dur- no hayan sido usadas, podrán

ing service as a member of the acumularse de año en año mientras

Mission .

duren los servicios del miembro de

la Misión.

ARTICLE 26. The leave specified ARTICULO 26. La licencia que

in the preceding Article may be se estipula en el Artículo anterior spent in the Republic of Peru, in puede ser disfrutada en la Rethe United States of America, or pública del Perú, en los Estados in other countries, but the expense Unidos de América o en otros

of travel and transportation not países ; pero los gastos de viaje y otherwise provided for in this de transporte no especificados en Agreement shall be borne by the este Convenio correrán por cuenta member of the Mission taking such del miembro de la Misión que leave. All travel time shall count disfrute de la licencia . Todo el

as leave and shall not be in addi- tiempo que se emplee en viajar se

tion to the time authorized in the contará como parte de la licencia

preceding Article.

y no será adicional al tiempo au-

torizado en el Artículo que ante-

cede .

ARTICLE 27. The Government ARTICULO 27. El Gobierno de

of the Republic of Peru agrees to la República del Perú conviene en grant the leave specified in Article conceder la licencia estipulada

25 upon receipt of written applica- en el Artículo 25 al recibir una

tion, approved by the Chief of the solicitud por escrito , aprobada

Mission with due consideration por el Jefe de la Misión, y teniendo

for the convenience of the Govern- en debida consideración la con-

ment of the Republic of Peru .

veniencia del Gobierno de la Re-

Termination ofserv-
ices of replaced members.

ARTICLE 28. Members of the Mission that may be replaced

pública del Perú. ARTICULO 28. Los miembros de
la Misión que sean reemplazados

shall terminate their services on sólo podrán cesar en sus funciones.

the Mission only upon the arrival en la Misión a la llegada de los que

of their replacement, except when les substituyan, excepto cuando

otherwise mutually agreed upon in por mutuo acuerdo los respectivos

Medical attention.

advance by the respective Gov- Gobiernos convengan de antemano

ernments .

en lo contrario .

ARTICLE 29. The Government ARTICULO 29. El Gobierno de la

of the Republic of Peru shall pro- República del Perú proporcionará vide suitable medical attention to atención médica adecuada a los

members of the Mission and their miembros de la Misión y a sus

families .

familias .

63 STAT. ]

PERU-ARMY MISSION- JUNE 20, 1949

2531

In case a member of the Mission En caso de que un miembro de

becomes ill or suffers injury , he la Misión se enferme o sufra shall , at the discretion of the Chief lesiones , se le recluirá, a discreción of the Mission, be placed in such del Jefe de la Misión , en el hospital hospital as the Chief of the Mission que éste considere adecuado , desdeems suitable, after consultation pués de consultar con el Ministro with the Minister of War of the de Guerra de la República del Republic of Peru , and all expenses Perú , y todos los gastos ocasionaincurred as the result of such ill- dos como resultado de tal enfer-

ness or injury while the patient is medad o de tales lesiones mientras

a member of the Mission and el paciente sea miembro de la remains in the Republic of Peru Misión y permanezca en la Re-

shall be paid by the Government pública del Perú, serán pagados of the Republic of Peru . If the por el Gobierno de la República hospitalized member is a commis- del Perú . Si el miembro hospitalisioned officer he shall pay his cost zado es un oficial , éste pagará sus of subsistence, but if he is an gastos de subsistencia ; pero si enlisted man the cost of sub- pertenece al personal subalterno , sistence shall be paid by the Gov- los gastos de subsistencia serán ernment of the Republic of Peru . pagados por el Gobierno de la Families shall enjoy the same República del Perú. Las familias privileges agreed upon in this gozarán de los mismos privilegios Article for members of the Mission convenidos en este Artículo para except that a member of the Mis- los miembros de la Misión, a sion shall in all cases pay the cost excepción de que en todos los of subsistence incident to hos- casos el miembro de la Misión

pitalization of a member of his pagará los gastos de subsistencia

family, except as may be provided relacionados con la hospitalización

under Article 10 .

de un miembro de su familia , ex-

Ante, p.2524.

ARTICLE 30. Any the Mission unable his duties with the

cepto lo que se disponga de acuerdo con el Artículo 10. member of ARTICULO 30. Todo miembro
to perform de la Misión inhabilitado para Mission by desempeñar sus servicios con la

Replacement in case of disability.

reason of long continued physical Misión por razón de incapacidad

disability shall be replaced .

física prolongada, sera reempla-

zado .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the un- EN TESTIMONIO DE LO CUAL, dersigned , James E. Webb, Acting los infrascritos , James E. Webb, Secretary of State of the United Secretario de Estado Interino de States of America, and Fernando los Estados Unidos de América, Berckemeyer, Ambassador Extra- y Fernando Berckemeyer, Embaordinary and Plenipotentiary of jador Extraordinario y Plenipothe Republic of Peru to the tenciario del Perú en los Estados United States of America, duly Unidos de América , debidamente authorized thereto, have signed autorizados para ello , firman este this Agreement in duplicate in Convenio en duplicado , en los the English and Spanish lan- idiomas inglés y castellano , en

2532

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TERATIES [63 STAT.

guages, at Washington, this twen- Washington, el día veinte de

tieth day of June, one thousand junio de mil novecientos cuarenta

nine hundred and forty-nine.

y nueve.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POR EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA:

JAMES E. WEBB

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU: POR EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA DEL PERU :
F BERCKEMEYER

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. RICE COMMISSION- MAR. 13, 1948

2533

Constitution of the International Rice Commission . Formulated at the International Rice Meeting at Baguio March 1-13, 1948 ; approved by a resolution adopted at the Fourth Session of the Conference ofthe Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations , held in Washington November 15-29, 1948; instrument of acceptance deposited by the United States of America February 28, 1949; entered into force January 4 , 1949; entered into force with respect to the United States of America February 28, 1949.

FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS

ORGANISATION DES NATIONS UNIES POUR L'ALIMENTATION
ET L'AGRICULTURE

CONSTITUTION OF INTERNATIONAL RICE COMMISSION

March 13, 1948 72 [T. I. A. S. 1938]

PREAMBLE
The Council of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, having regard to the deliberations of the Rice Study Group which met at Trivandrum, of the Third Session of the Conference of the Organization, and of the International Rice Meeting held at Baguio, and with a view to co-operative action in matters relating to the production, conservation , distribution, and consumption of rice (excepting matters relating to international trade) hereby establishes an International Rice Commission in accordance with the following Constitution .
ARTICLE I
THE COMMISSION
There shall be a Commission , known as the International Rice Commission, with the functions set forth in Article IV of this Constitution .
ARTICLE II
MEMBERSHIP The members of the Commission shall be such of the governments members of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations as may accept this Constitution in accordance with the provisions of Article VII hereof.
ARTICLE III
ORGANIZATION
1. Each government that becomes a member of the Commission as defined in Article II hereof (hereinafter called a "member government") shall have the right to be represented at meetings of the Commission by a single delegate, who may be accompanied by an alternate and by experts and advisers. Alternates, experts, and advisers shall be entitled to take part in the proceedings of the Com-

2534

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

mission but not to vote, except in the case of an alternate who is duly authorized to act for a delegate.

goVvoertnemsentosf. member 2. Each member government shall have one vote. Decisions of the

Commission shall be taken by a simple majority of votes cast except

as otherwise provided by this Constitution. A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.

Chairman .

3. The Commission shall elect a Chairman from among the delegates,

who shall serve for a period of one year, without prejudice to the right of re-election .

tiRmueleasnodf pprlocaecdeuroef; 4. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 5 of this Article , the

meetings.

Commission shall, with the concurrence of the Director-General of the

Food and Agriculture Organization , establish its own rules of procedure and determine the time and place of its meetings.

miMsseieont.ing of Com- 5. The Chairman shall call a meeting of the Commission at least once a year, unless otherwise directed by a majority of member governments. The initial meeting shall be called by the Director- General of the Food and Agriculture Organization within six months after the entry into force of this Constitution and at such place as he may designate.
Special meeting. 6. Any member government shall have the right, with the concurrence of the Director- General of the Food and Agriculture Organization,
to call for a special meeting of the Commission.
Seat ofCommission. 7. The seat of the Commission shall be the same place as the seat of

Secretary.

the Far Eastern regional office of the Food and Agriculture Organization. 8. The Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization shall appoint a Secretary to the Commission and shall provide its secretariat from the staff of the Far Eastern regional office.

ARTICLE IV

FUNCTIONS

The Commission shall, except in matters relating to international trade, have the functions of :
( a) formulating and keeping under review the scientific , technical, and economic problems involved in the production , conservation, distribution, and consumption of rice ;
(b) promoting and co-ordinating research into those problems and its application to the development and adoption of improved methods in everyday practice ;
(c ) encouraging and assisting the mobilization and use of scientifically and technically trained persons in such a way as to secure the greatest common benefit to member countries in matters relating to the production , conservation , distribution, and consumption of rice ;

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. RICE COMMISSION- MAR. 13, 1948
( d ) undertaking, where necessary and appropriate, co-operative projects directed to the solution of the above-mentioned problems ;
(e ) assembling, collating, and disseminating, through the publications of the Food and Agriculture Organization and otherwise, information relating to the production , conservation , distribution, and consumption of rice ;
( f) establishing such committees and calling such meetings of experts as the Commission may consider desirable for the performance of the foregoing functions ;
(g ) recommending to member governments, through the Food and Agriculture Organization, such national and international action as may appear to the Commission to be necessary or desirable for the solution of the above-mentioned problems ;
(h) recommending to the Food and Agriculture Organization the provision of technical assistance to member governments in measures directed to that end ;
(i ) extending its good offices in assisting member governments to secure materials and equipment necessary for improvement of the production, conservation , distribution , or consumption of rice ;
(j ) reporting annually on its activities to the Council of the Food and Agriculture Organization , and making such other reports to the Food and Agriculture Organization on matters relating to the production, conservation, distribution, and consumption of rice as the Commission itself may consider expedient or the Council of the Food and Agriculture Organization may require.
ARTICLE V
CO-OPERATION WITH INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
The Commission shall maintain , through the Food and Agriculture Organization, close liaison with the United Nations and its specialized agencies in matters of mutual interest.
ARTICLE VI
EXPENSES
1. Expenses incurred by delegates and their alternates, experts , and advisers in attending meetings of the Commission and expenses incurred by experts under paragraph ( f) of Article IV hereof shall be determined and paid by their respective governments.
2. The expenses of the secretariat of the Commission and any expenses incurred by the chairman of the Commission in performing duties connected with its work in intervals between meetings of the Commission shall be determined and paid by the Food and Agriculture Organization within the limits of an annual budget prepared and approved in
81939-52- PT. III- -16

2535

2536

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Financial Regulations of that Organization for the time being in force. 3. Expenses incurred by the Commission in undertaking any co-operative project in accordance with paragraph ( d ) of Article IV hereof shall, unless they are met by the Food and Agriculture Organization or from any other source, be determined and paid by member governments in such manner and proportions as they may mutually agree.
ARTICLE VII
ACCEPTANCE AND WITHDRAWAL
1. Acceptance of this Constitution by any member government of the Food and Agriculture Organization shall be effected by the deposit of a notification of acceptance with the Director- General of the Organization and shall take effect on receipt of such notification by the Director-General, who shall forthwith inform each of the member governments of the Organization . 2. Any member government may withdraw from the Commission at any time after the expiration of one year from the date on which its acceptance takes effect, or this Constitution comes into force, whichever is the later, by giving written notice of such withdrawal to the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization, who shall forthwith inform all member governments of the Commission. Any such notice of withdrawal shall become effective six months after the date of its receipt by the Director-General.
ARTICLE VIII
AMENDMENTS
This Constitution may be amended by the vote of a two -thirds majority of all the members of the Commission , with the concurrence of the Council of the Food and Agriculture Organization.
ARTICLE IX
ENTRY INTO FORCE
This Constitution shall enter into force as soon as notifications of acceptance have been received from the governments of at least ten countries members of the Food and Agriculture Organization representing in the aggregate not less than half of the world production of rice in the crop year 1947/48 as shown by official statistics.
I hereby certify that this document is a true copy of the Constitution of the International Rice Commission.
NORRIS E. DODD Norris E. Dodd Director General

63 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- INT. RICE COMMISSION- MAR. 13, 1948

The Director- General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to the Secretary of State

Cable Address : FOODAGRI FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED
NATIONS
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTORGENERAL

A

ORGANISATION DES NATIONS

FO UNIES POUR L'ALIMENTATION

ET L'AGRICULTURE

159621

1201 Connecticut Avenue, Northwest Washington 6, D. C.

11 MAY 1949

SIR,

I have the honor to acknowledge your letter 501.SA/3-249 of 6 May

1949, [ ¹ ] and to enclose with this letter a certified copy of the Constitution of the International Rice Commission.

The Governments which have accepted this Constitution are as

follows :

Government France Ecuador

Date of Deposit of Notification of Acceptance
August 10, 1948
September 7, 1948

Ceylon Pakistan

September 27, 1948 October 5, 1948

Italy

October 6, 1948

India

October 12, 1948

Siam

November 1, 1948

Netherlands

November 12, 1948

Egypt Burma

November 29, 1948 November 29, 1948

Mexico

December 17, 1948 .

Philippine Republic Cuba

January 4, 1949 January 10, 1949

United Kingdom

February 28, 1949

United States of America

February 28, 1949

The Constitution came into force on 4 January 1949 on receipt of notification of acceptance of the Government of the Philippine Republic.
Accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration . N.E. DODD

The Honorable THE SECRETARY OF STATE

Department of State Washington, D. C.

1 '

Not

printed.

Norris E. Dodd Director General

2537

2538

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

March 14, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1940]

Agreement between the United States of America and New Zealand re-
specting passport visa fees . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Wellington March 14, 1949; entered into force March 14 , 1949, operative April 1 , 1949 .

The American Ambassador to the New Zealand Minister of External Affairs

SIR,

With reference to recent conversations between representatives of

this Embassy and the Ministry of External Affairs regarding arrange-

ments to facilitate non -immigrant travel, I have the honor to inform

you that the Government of the United States is prepared to conclude

with the Government of New Zealand an agreement by an exchange of

notes in the following terms :--

New Zealand citizens traveling to U. S. and its possessions.

(1 ) New Zealand citizens in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of New Zealand and endorsed "New Zealand

Citizen" traveling to the United States and its possessions who

are bona fide non- immigrants within the meaning of the immi-

gration laws of the United States and who are eligible to receive visas, will be granted non-immigrant passport visas at a reduced fee of 2 dollars or the equivalent in foreign currency ;

59 Stat. 672. 8 U. S. C. § 203.

no fee is to be collected for execution of applications therefor. Diplomatic visas and official visas, as well as visas issued under the provisions of Section 3 (7) of the Immigration Act of 1924, as amended , will, however, continue to be granted without fee to qualified applicants who are traveling to the United States and its possessions.

U. S. citizens proceeding to New Zealand, etc.

(2 ) United States citizens in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States of America proceeding to New Zealand, New Zealand Island Territories and the Trust Territory of Western Samoa, will be granted passport visas (other than single-entry transit visas ) at a fee of 2 dollars or the equivalent in foreign currency. Diplomatic visas and official visas, as well as visas issued to officers and employees of organizations declared by the Governor- General to be organizations within the meaning of Section 3 ( 1 ) of the Diplomatic Privileges Extension Act 1947, however, will be granted without fee to qualified applicants who are in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States of

Single-journey visa granted without fee.

America and who are traveling to New Zealand, New Zealand Island Territories and the Trust Territory of Western Samoa.
( 3 ) A visa for a single journey in transit through New Zealand , New Zealand Island Territories and the Trust Territory of

Western Samoa, will be granted without fee.

63 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND-PASSPORT VISA FEES-MAR. 14, 1949

2539

(4) A transit certificate valid for a single application for admission

in transit on a continuous journey through the United States and its possessions and a limited entry certificate valid for the

duration of a vessel's stay in a United States port will be granted without fee.

(5 ) Non-immigrant passport visas granted to New Zealand citizens in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of New Zealand and endorsed "New Zealand Citizen" who qualify as temporary visitors under the provisions of Section 3 ( 2 ) of the Immigration Act of 1924 , as amended, will be valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States

Validity of non-immigrant passport visas fSotrateenst.ry into United
43 Stat. 154. 8 U. S. C. § 203.

and its possessions during the period of 24 months from date of issuance provided that the passports of the bearers remain

valid for that period of time or should they expire are revalidated prior to the expiration date of the visa . All other nonimmigrant passport visas granted to qualified New Zealand

citizens in possession of valid passports will be valid under the same condition for a period of time not to exceed 12 months

from date of issuance. The period of validity of a visa relates only to the period within which it may be used in connection with an application for admission at a port of entry into the United States and its possessions, and not to the length of stay

in the United States which may be permitted the bearer after he is admitted. The period of time an alien may be permitted

to stay in the United States is determined by the immigration authorities at the time the alien is admitted.

(6) Passport visas other than multiple-entry transit visas granted

Validity of U. S. visas for entry into

to United States citizens in possession of valid passports issued New Zealand.

by the Government of the United States of America will be valid

for any number of applications for admission into New Zea-

land, New Zealand Island Territories and the Trust Territory

of Western Samoa during a period of 24 months from date of

issuance provided that the passports of the bearers remain valid

for that period of time or should they expire are revalidated

prior to the expiration date of the visa. Multiple-entry transit visas will be valid for 12 months on the same terms.

2. The foregoing arrangements will not apply in respect of the

Inapplicability certain cases.

in

grant of visas to aliens applying for admission into the United States

and its possessions, with the privilege of residing permanently therein.

The fee for such visa and application therefor is 10 dollars or the equiv-

alent in foreign currency as prescribed by the Immigration Act of 1924. Furthermore, it is understood that this agreement will not exempt United States citizens traveling to New Zealand, New Zealand Island Territories and the Trust Territory of Western Samoa , and those New Zealand citizens covered by the agreement traveling to the

43 Stat. 153. 8 U. S. C. §201 note;
Supp. II , §§ 204-220.

United States and its possessions from the necessity of complying with

the respective New Zealand and United States laws and regulations concerning the entry, residence (temporary or permanent) and employment or occupation of foreigners and that travelers who are unable

2540

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

to satisfy the Immigration Authorities that they comply with these laws and regulations are liable to be refused leave to enter or land.

3. If the New Zealand Government are prepared to accept the fore-

going provisions the present note and your reply in similar terms should be regarded as placing on record the agreement between the two Governments which will take effect on April 1 , 1949.

Please accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

WELLINGTON ,

R. M. SCOTTEN

March 14, 1949.

The Right Honorable PETER FRASER, Prime Minister of the Dominion of New Zealand, Wellington.

59 Stat. 672. 8 U.S. C. § 203.

The New Zealand Minister of External Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS WELLINGTON, N. Z. 14 March 1949.
SIR, I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
14 March, 1949, in which, with a view to facilitating non-immigrant travel between our two countries, you suggest that an Agreement be concluded in the following terms :
(1 ) New Zealand citizens in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of New Zealand and endorsed "New Zealand Citizen" travelling to the United States and its possessions who are bona fide nom-immigrants within the meaning of the immigration laws of the United States and who are eligible to receive visas will be granted non-immigrant passport visas at a reduced fee of two dollars or the equivalent in foreign currency ; no fee is to be collected for execution of applications therefor. Diplomatic visas and official visas, as well as visas issued under the provisions of Section 3 ( 7 ) of the Immigration Act of 1924, as amended, will, however, continue to be granted without fee to qualified applicants who are travelling to the United States and its possessions.
( 2 ) United States citizens in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States of America proceeding to New Zealand, New Zealand Island Territories and the Trust Territory of Western Samoa, will be granted passport visas (other than single-entry transit visas ) at a fee of two dollars or the equivalent in foreign currency. Diplomatic visas and official visas , as well as visas issued to officers and employees of organizations declared by the Governor-General to be organi-

63 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND-PASSPORT VISA FEES- MAR. 14, 1949

2541

zations within the meaning of Section 3 ( 1 ) of the Diplomatic Privileges Extension Act 1947, however, will be granted without fee to qualified applicants who are in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States of America and who are travelling to New Zealand , New Zealand Island Territories and the Trust Territory of Western Samoa.

( 3 ) A visa for a single journey in transit through New Zealand , New Zealand Island Territories and the Trust Territory of Western Samoa, will be granted without fee.
(4) A transit certificate valid for a single application for admission in transit on a continuous journey through the United States and its possessions and a limited entry certificate valid for the duration of a vessel's stay in a United States port will be granted without fee.

(5) Non-immigrant passport visas granted to New Zealand citizens in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of New Zealand and endorsed "New Zealand Citizen" who qualify as temporary visitors under the provisions of Section 3 (2 ) of the Immigration Act of 1924, as amended , will be valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States and its possessions during the period of twenty-four months from date of issuance provided that the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period of time or should they expire are revalidated prior to the expiration date of the visa . All other non-immigrant passport visas granted to qualified New Zealand citizens in possession of valid passports will be valid under the same condition for a period of time not to exceed twelve months from date of issuance. The period of validity of a visa relates only to the period within which it may be used in connection with an application for admission at a port of entry into the United States and its possessions, and not to the length of stay in the United States which may be permitted the bearer after he is admitted. The period of time an alien may be permitted to stay in the United States is determined by the immigration authorities at the time the alien is admitted.
(6 ) Passport visas other than multiple-entry transit visas granted to United States citizens in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States of America will be valid for any number of applications for admission into New Zealand, New Zealand Island Territories and the Trust Territory of Western Samoa during a period of twenty-four months from date of issuance provided that the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period of time or should they expire are revalidated prior to the expiration date of the visa . Multipleentry transit visas will be valid for twelve months on the same terms.

43 Stat. 154. 8 U.S. C. § 203.

2542

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

2. The foregoing arrangements will not apply in respect of the grant

of visas to aliens applying for admission into the United States and its

possessions, with the privilege of residing permanently therein. The

fee for such visa and application therefor is ten dollars or the equiv-

43 Stat. 153. SU. 8. C. 201 note;
Supp. II, §§ 204-220.

alent in foreign currency as prescribed by the Immigration Act of 1924. Furthermore, it is understood that this agreement will not exempt United States citizens travelling to New Zealand, New Zealand

Island Territories and the Trust Territory of Western Samoa, and those New Zealand citizens covered by the agreement travelling to the

United States and its possessions from the necessity of complying

with the respective New Zealand and United States laws and regula-

tions concerning the entry, residence (temporary or permanent) and employment or occupation of foreigners and that travellers who are

unable to satisfy the Immigration Authorities that they comply with

these laws and regulations are liable to be refused leave to enter or land.

3. I have the honour to inform you that the New Zealand Government are prepared to accept the foregoing provisions and they agree that your note and my present reply should be regarded as placing on record an Agreement between the two Governments to come into force on 1 April, 1949.
I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient servant, P. FRASER.
THE UNITED STATES AMBASSADOR , Minister of External Affairs.
Embassy of the United States of America, Wellington.

Mar. 23, 1949 63 STAT. ] ECUADOR-MILITARY AVIATION MISSION- May 17, 1949

2543

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting a military aviation mission to Ecuador, amending and extending the agreement of December 12, 1940, as modified and extended . Effected
by exchange of notes signed at Washington March 23 and May 17, 1949; entered into force May 17, 1949, operative retroactively December 12, 1948.

March 23 and May 17, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1942]

The Secretary of State to the Ecuadoran Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Mar 23 1949
EXCELLENCY :
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 13 of January 18, 1949 [ 1 ] requesting the renewal of the Agreement entered into on December 12, 1940, modified by an additional article on April 30, 1941 to run concurrently with the Agreement, and renewed for a period of four years by an exchange of notes dated June 13 and July 13, 1944 [ 1 ] between the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Ecuador, providing for a United States Military Aviation Mission to Ecuador.
In your note of January 18, 1949 it was indicated that the Government of Ecuador desires to renew this Agreement for a period of two years, the renewal to commence on the termination of the present Agreement on December 12 , 1948. It was also proposed that Article 4 contain the following subparagraph :
"(c) Upon request by the Government of Ecuador that the entire personnel of the Mission be withdrawn , in the public interest of Ecuador without the necessity of compliance with Clause (a) of this Article. "

54 Stat. 2437. 55 Stat. 1265.
54 Stat. 2438.

and that Article 9 be amended to read as follows :

"Each member of the Mission shall serve on the Mission with

the rank he holds in the United States Air Force and shall wear

the uniform of his rank in the United States Air Force. "

The above-mentioned proposals were transmitted to the Department

Proposals for amendment by De-

of the Air Force and a reply has now been received indicating that, pFaorrtcmee. nt of the Air

while that Department would be glad to extend the Air Mission Agree-

ment for the suggested period of two years , it would not be possible

to include the above-quoted amendments. On the other hand the De-

partment of the Air Force has requested that the additional article signed on April 30 , 1941 , to the basic Agreement of December 12, 1940

55 Stat. 1265.

for the assignment of a United States Military Aviation Mission to Ecuador be amended to read as follows :

¹Not printed.

2544
54 Stat. 2437. 54 Stat. 2438

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
"Each member of the Mission and his family shall be furnished by the Government of the Republic of Ecuador with first-class accommodations for travel, via the shortest usually traveled route, required and performed under this Agreement, between the port of embarkation in the United States of America and his official residence in Ecuador, both for the outward and for the return voyage. The Government of the Republic of Ecuador shall also pay all expenses of shipment of household effects , baggage and automobile of each member of the Mission between the port of embarkation in the United States of America and his official residence in Ecuador, as well as all expenses incidental to the transportation of such household effects, baggage and automobile from Ecuador to the port of entry in the United States of America. Transportation of such household effects, baggage and automobile shall be effected in one shipment, and all subsequent shipments shall be at the expense of the respective members of the Mission except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, or when such shipments are necessitated by circumstances beyond their control. Payment of expenses for the transportation of families, household effects and automobiles, in the case of personnel who may join the Mission for temporary duty at the request of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Ecuador, shall not be required under this Agreement , but shall be determined by negotiations between the Department of the Air Force of the United States of America and the authorized representative of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Ecuador in Washington at such time as the detail of personnel for such temporary duty may be agreed upon."
The Department of the Air Force desires the following substitutions in the wording of the basic Agreement in order that the current organization of the United States Air Force may be properly reflected :
a. Preamble : Substitute "United States Air Force Mission" in lieu of "Military Aviation Mission. "
b. Article 6 : Delete "Lieutenant Colonel or Major. " Substitute "Department of the Air Force" in lieu of "War Department" and "United States Air Force" in lieu of "United States Army Air Corps" wherever it appears in this Article.
c. Article 9 : Substitute "United States Air Force" in lieu of "United States Army Air Corps" wherever it appears in this Article.
d. Article 11 : Substitute "United States Air Force" in lieu of "United States Army Air Corps."
In the event that the above proposals are acceptable to your Government, I shall consider this note and your response to that effect as completing the Agreement between the two Governments for the renewal of the Agreement of 1940, notwithstanding the provision of Title I, Article 3.

63 STAT.] ECUADOR- MILITARY AVIATION MISSION- Mar. 23, 1949 May 17, 1949

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

For the Secretary of State :
His Excellency Señor Don AUGUSTO DILLON,

DEAN RUSK

Ambassador of Ecuador.

2545

The Ecuadoran Ambassador to the Secretary of State

EMBAJADA DEL ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 149

17 de mayo de 1949.

EXCELENCIA : Tengo a honra dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia con el objeto de ex-
presarle que mi Gobierno ha tomado en debida consideración la amable nota de usted, No. 822.20 , de 23 de marzo de 1949 , relativa a la renovación del Acuerdo entre nuestros dos Gobiernos sobre la Misión Militar Aérea de los Estados Unidos en el Ecuador.
Al respecto, acabo de recibir instrucciones para manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Ministerio de Defensa Nacional del Ecuador acepta las reformas propuestas por el Departamento de Estado en el Acuerdo que establece la susodicha Misión.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
A DILLON

A. Dillon Embajador del Ecuador

A Su Excelencia el señor DEAN ACHESON Secretario de Estado Washington, D. C.

Translation

EMBASSY OF ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 149
EXCELLENCY :

May 17, 1949.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that my Government has given due consideration to your courteous note No. 822.20 of March 23, 1949, relative to the extension of the agreement between our two Governments on the United States Military Air Mission in Ecuador.
In this connection, I have just received instructions to inform Your Excellency that the Ministry of National Defense of Ecuador accepts the amendments proposed by the Department of State in the agreement that establishes the aforementioned Mission.

Ante, p. 2543.

2546

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
A DILLON

His Excellency DEAN ACHESON Secretary of State Washington, D. C.

A. Dillon Ambassador of Ecuador

63 STAT.1

ECUADOR- NAVAL MISSION- Jan. 27, 1949 Feb. 4, 1949

2547

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador, amending and extending the agreement of December 12 , 1940, as modified and extended, respecting a naval mission to Ecuador. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington January 27 and February 4, 1949; entered into force February 4 , 1949, operative retroactively December 12, 1948.

January 27 and February 4, 1949
[T. I. A. S. 1944]

The Secretary of State to the Ecuadoran Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

Jan 27 1949

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 284 of

November 29, 1948 [ 1 ] requesting the renewal of the Agreement entered into on December 12, 1940, modified by an additional article on April 30, 1941 to run concurrently with the Agreement and renewed on two occasions for a period of two years each by an ex-

54 Stat. 2429. 55 Stat. 1263.

change of notes dated July 27 and August 22 , 1944 [ ¹ ] and June 17

and December 11 , 1946 , [ ¹ ] respectively, between the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Ecuador providing for a United States Naval Mission to Ecuador.

In your note of November 29 it was indicated that the Government

of Ecuador desires to renew this agreement for a period of two years, the renewal to commence on the termination of the present agreement on December 12, 1948. It was also proposed that Article 4 contain the

54 Stat. 2430.

following subparagraph :

"(a) Upon request by the Government of Ecuador for the with- Withdrawal of personnel of Mission.
drawal of all personnel of the Mission, in the public interest of

Ecuador, without the necessity of complying with subparagraph (a ) of this Article. "

and that Article 9 be amended to read as follows :
"Article 9. Each member of the Mission shall discharge his duties in the Mission with the rank which he holds in the United

Rank and uniform

States Navy, and shall wear the uniform of his rank in the United States Navy."

The above-mentioned proposals were transmitted to the Department of the Navy and a reply has been received indicating that while that Department would be glad to extend the Naval Mission Agreement for the suggested period of two years, it would not be possible to include the above- quoted amendments. On the other hand, the Department of the Navy has requested that the additional Article signed on
' Not printed.

2548

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

245259.Stat. 1263 ; 54 Stat. April 30, 1941 to the basic agreement of December 12 , 1940 for the assignment of a United States Naval Mission to Ecuador be amended

to read as follows :

Travel accommodations for family.

"Each member of the Mission and his family shall be furnished

by the Government of the Republic of Ecuador with first- class

accommodations for travel, via the shortest usually traveled route,

required and performed under this Agreement, between the port of embarkation in the United States of America and his official

Shipment of household effects, etc.

residence in Ecuador, both for the outward and for the return voyage. The Government of the Republic of Ecuador shall also
pay all expenses of shipment of household effects, baggage and automobile of each member of the Mission between the port of embarkation in the United States of America and his official resi-

Personnel Joining Mission temporarily.

dence in Ecuador, as well as all expenses incidental to the transportation of such household effects, baggage and automobile from Ecuador to the port of entry in the United States of America. Transportation of such household effects, baggage and automobile shall be effected in one shipment, and all subsequent shipments shall be at the expense of the respective members of the Mission except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, or when such shipments are necessitated by circumstances beyond their control. Payment of expenses for the transportation of families, household effects and automobiles, in the case of personnel who may

join the Mission for temporary duty at the request of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Ecuador, shall not be required under this Agreement, but shall be determined by negotiations between the Department of the Navy of the United States of America and the authorized representative of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Ecuador in Washington at such time as the detail of

personnel for such temporary duty may be agreed upon. "

54 Stat. 2430.

In the event that the above proposal is acceptable to your Government, I shall consider this note and your response to that effect as completing the Agreement between the two Governments for the renewal of the Agreement of 1940 in accordance with Title I, Article 3.
Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

For the Secretary of State : JOHN E. PEURIFOY

His Excellency Señor Don AUGUSTO DILLON,

Ambassador of Ecuador.

63 STAT.]

Jan. 27, 1949 ECUADOR- NAVAL MISSION- Feb. 4, 1949

The Ecuadoran Ambassador to the Secretary of State

2549

EMBAJADA DEL ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 34
EXCELENCIA :

4 de febrero de 1949

Con relación a la amable nota del Departamento de Estado , de fecha 27 de enero último, y a la mía de 3 de febrero [ ¹ ] actual, respondiendo a la anterior, tengo a honra manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno, mediante comunicación cablegráfica, me instruye para manifestar al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos que acepta la prórroga

del contrato que mantiene con la Misión Naval de este país, incorporando a dicho contrato la cláusula adicional propuesta por el Departamento de Marina.

Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
A DILLON

A Su Excelencia el Señor DEAN ACHESON Secretario de Estado Washington, D. C.

A. Dillon Embajador del Ecuador

Translation

EMBASSY OF ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 34
EXCELLENCY :

February 4, 1949

With reference to the courteous note of the Department of State dated January 27 last, and to my note in reply thereto dated February 3, 1949, [1 ] I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that in a cabled communication my Government instructs me to inform the United States Government that it accepts the extension of the contract which it has with the United States Naval Mission, incorporating

in the said contract the additional clause proposed by the Navy Department.

I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the expression of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

A DILLON

A. Dillon

His Excellency DEAN ACHESON Secretary of State Washington, D. C.

Ambassador of Ecuador

Ante, p. 2547.

' Not printed.

2550

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

March 29, 1949 (T. I. A. S. 1945]

Agreement between the United States of America and Finland respecting air transport services . Signed at Helsinki March 29, 1949; entered into force April 28, 1949.
AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND FINLAND

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of Finland,
Desiring to conclude an Agreement for the purpose of promoting direct air communications between their respective territories ,
Have accordingly appointed authorized representatives for this purpose, who have agreed as follows :

ARTICLE 1

For the purposes of the present Agreement, and its Annex, except

where the text provides otherwise :

"Aeronautical authorities."

(A) The term "aeronautical authorities" shall mean in the case

of the United States of America, the Civil Aeronautics Board and

any person or agency authorized to perform the functions exercised

at the present time by the Civil Aeronautics Board and , in the case of

Finland, the Office of Civil Aviation of the Ministry of Communica-

tions and Public Works and any person or agency authorized to

"Designated airlines. "

perform the functions exercised at present by the said Office of Civil Aviation.
(B) The term " designated airlines" shall mean those airlines that

the aeronautical authorities of one of the contracting parties have

communicated in writing to the aeronautical authorities of the other contracting party that they are the airlines that it has designated in

conformity with Article 3 of the present Agreement for the routes

"Territory . "

specified in such designation. (C) The term "territory" shall have the meaning given to it by

Article 2 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation , signed

61 Stat., p. 1181.

Pt.

2.

at Chicago on December 7, 1944 .

(D) The definitions contained in Article 96 of the Convention

61 Stat., Pt. p. 1207.

on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944 shall be applied to the present Agreement.

ARTICLE 2

Post, p. 2554.

Each contracting party grants to the other contracting party the rights as specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described, whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted .

63 STAT. ] FINLAND- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 29, 1949

2551

ARTICLE 3

Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation as soon as the contracting party to whom the rights have been granted by Article 2 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned has authorized an airline for such route, and the contracting party

Inauguration of air services.

granting the rights shall, subject to Article 7 hereof, be bound to give the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines con-

cerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may be required to qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the contract-

ing party granting the rights under the laws and regulations normally applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage in the

operations contemplated by this agreement ; and provided that in the United States Zones in Germany and Austria, such operations

shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

ARTICLE 4

In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality of treatment, both contracting parties agree that :
(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be

Prevention of discriminatory practices, etc.
Charges for use of facilities.

imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the contracting parties

agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would

be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one contracting party by the other contracting party or its

Customs duties, etc., for fuel , lubricating oils, and spare parts.

nationals, and intended solely for use by aircraft of the airlines of such

contracting party shall, with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party whose territory is entered , be accorded the same treat-

ment as that applying to national airlines and to airlines of the mostfavored-nation.

(c) The fuel , lubricating oils, spare parts , regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one

contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory Post, p. 2554.

of the other contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

ARTICLE 5
Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses Certificates of airworthiness, etc.
issued or rendered valid by one contracting party and still in force shall be recognized as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annex. Each contracting party reserves the right , however, to refuse to recognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another state.

2552

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

ARTICLE 6

Laws and regula-

tions.

(a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to

the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged

in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of

such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft

of the airlines designated by the other contracting party, and shall be

complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first party.

( b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers , crew, or

cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance,

immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied

with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew or cargo of the airlines

designated by the other contracting party upon entrance into or

departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE 7

Withholding or revocation of specified rights.
Post, p. 2554.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 9 hereof, each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke the exercise of the rights specified in the Annex to this Agreement by an airline desig-

nated by the other contracting party in the event that it is not satis-

fied that substantial ownership and effective control of such airline

are vested in nationals of the other contracting party, or in case of

failure by such airline or the government designating such airline to

comply with the laws and regulations referred to in Article 6 hereof,

or otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, or to fulfil the

conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with this Agreement and its Annex.

Registration .

ARTICLE 8 This Agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be registered with the International Civil Aviation Organization.

ARTICLE 9

Termination.

Either of the contracting parties may at any time notify the other of its intention to terminate the present Agreement. Such a notice shall be sent simultaneously to the International Civil Aviation Organization. In the event such communication is made, this Agreement shall terminate one year after the date of receipt of the notice to terminate, unless by agreement between the contracting parties the communication under reference is withdrawn before the expiration of that time. If the other contracting party fails to acknowledge receipt, notice shall be deemed as having been received 14 days after its receipt by the International Civil Aviation Organization.

ARTICLE 10
Modifications of routes or conditions. In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable
to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex,

63 STAT.] FINLAND- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 29, 1949

2553

it may request consultation between the competent authorities of both contracting parties, such consultation to begin within a period of sixty days from the date of request. When these authorities mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex, their recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

ARTICLE 11
If a general multilateral air transport Convention accepted by both contracting parties enters into force, the present Agreement shall be amended so as to conform with the provisions of such Convention.

Amendment.

ARTICLE 12
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or its Annex, any dispute between the contracting parties relative to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex, which cannot be settled through consultation , shall be submitted for an advisory report to a tribunal of three arbitrators, one to be named by each contracting party, and the third to be agreed upon by the two arbitrators so chosen, provided that such third arbitrator shall not be a national of either contracting party. Each of the contracting parties shall designate an arbitrator within two months of the date of delivery by either party to the other party of a diplomatic note requesting arbitration of a dispute ; and the third arbitrator shall be agreed upon within three months of the date of delivery of such note. If the third arbitrator is not agreed upon, within the time limitation indicated, the vacancy thereby created shall be filled by the appointment of a person, designated by the President of the Council of ICAO, from a panel of arbitral personnel maintained in accordance with the practice of ICAO. The executive authorities of the contracting parties will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in any such advisory report. A moiety of the expenses of the arbitral tribunal shall be borne by each party.

Disputes. Post, p. 2554.

ARTICLE 13

Changes made by either contracting party in the routes described in the schedule attached, except those which change the points served by its airlines in the territory of the other contracting party, shall not be considered as modification of the Annex. The aeronautical

Changes in routes.

authorities of either contracting party may therefore proceed unilaterally to make such changes, provided , however, that notice of any change is given without delay to the aeronautical authorities of the other contracting party.
If such other aeronautical authorities find that, having regard to the principles set forth in Section VII of the Annex to the present : Post, p. 2555. Agreement, interests of their airline or airlines are prejudiced by the carriage by the airline or airlines of the first contracting party of traffic between the territory of the second contracting party and the new point in the territory of the third country, the authorities of the

2554 Entry into force.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
two contracting parties shall consult with a view to arrive at a satisfactory agreement.
ARTICLE 14
This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereto, will come into force thirty ( 30 ) days from the day it is signed.
In witness whereof, the undersigned , being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.
Done in duplicate at Helsinki , Finland , this 29th day of March , 1949 .

For the Government of the United States of America :
AVRA M. WARREN

For the Government of Finland
UUNO TAKKI

[ SEAL]

[ SEAL ]

ANNEX

SECTION I

U. S. rights of transit in Finland.

The Government of Finland grants to the Government of the

United States of America the right to conduct air transport services

by one or more airlines of United States nationality designated by

Post, p. 2557.

the latter country on the routes, specified in paragraph one of the Schedule attached , which transit or serve commercially the territory of Finland.

SECTION II

Finnish rights of transit in U. 8.

The Government of the United States of America grants to the

Government of Finland the right to conduct air transport services

by one or more airlines of Finnish nationality designated by the

latter country on the routes, specified in paragraph two of the Sched-

ule attached, which transit or serve commercially the territory of

the United States of America.

SECTION III

Rights of transit and stops for nontraffic purposes.

One or more airlines designated by each of the contracting parties under the conditions provided in this Agreement will enjoy, in the territory of the other contracting party, rights of transit and of stops for nontraffic purposes, as well as the right of commercial entry and departure for international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at the points enumerated on each of the routes specified in the Schedule attached.

SECTION IV

Public requirements.

The air transport facilities available hereunder to the travelling
public shall bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such transport.

63 STAT. ] FINLAND- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAR. 29, 1949

2555

SECTION V

There shall be a fair and equal opportunity for the airlines of the poFratiurniatnydfeoqruaolpoeprcontracting parties to operate on any route between their respective ation of services. territories covered by this Agreement and Annex.
SECTION VI
Cooperation in trunk In the operation by the airlines of either contracting party of the services. trunk services described in the present Annex, the interest of the airlines of the other contracting party shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provides on all or part of the same routes.

SECTION VII

It is the understanding of both contracting parties that services provided by a designated airline under the present Agreement and Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such airline is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic. The right to embark or to disembark on such services international traffic destined for and coming from third countries at a point or points on the routes specified in the present Annex shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both contracting parties subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :

Capacity .

(a) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;

(b) to the requirements of through airline operation ; and
(c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services.

SECTION VIII
It is the intention of both contracting parties that there should be regular and frequent consultation between their respective aeronautical authorities and that there should thereby be close collaboration in the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in the present Agreement and Annex.

Consultation.

SECTION IX
Determination of ( A ) The determination of rates in accordance with the following rates. paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels , due regard being paid to all relevant factors, such as cost of operation, reasonable profit, and the rates charged by any other airlines, as well as the characteristics of each service. (B) The rates to be charged by the airlines of either contracting Approval. party between points in the territory of the United States and points in the territory of Finland referred to in the attached Schedule shall, consistent with the provisions of the present Agreement and its Annex,

2556

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the con-

tracting parties, who shall act in accordance with their obligations

Filing of proposed rate.
IATA.

under the present Annex, within the limits of their legal powers. (C) Any rate proposed by the airline or airlines of either contract-
ing party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties at least thirty ( 30 ) days before the proposed date of introduction ; provided that this period of thirty ( 30 ) days may be reduced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties.
(D) The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having ap-

proved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air Transport Association (hereinafter called IATA) for a period ending February 28, 1950, any rate agreements concluded through this machinery

during this period and involving United States airlines will be sub-

ject to approval of the Board. Rate agreements concluded through this machinery may also be required to be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of Finland pursuant to the principles

enunciated in paragraph ( B ) above.

( E) The contracting parties agree that the procedure described in

paragraphs ( F) , ( G ) and ( H ) of this Section shall apply.

1. If during the period of the Civil Aeronautics Board's approval of the IATA traffic conference machinery, either any specific rate agreement is not approved within a reasonable time by either contracting party or a conference of IATA is unable to agree on a rate, or

2. At any time no IATA machinery is applicable or

3. If either contracting party at any time withdraws or fails to re-

Prevention of unfair or uneconomic rates.

new its approval of that part of the IATA traffic conference machinery relevant to this Section.
(F) In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates

for the transport of persons and property by air on international

services of United States airlines and to suspend proposed rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at

present is empowered to act with respect to such rates for the trans-

port of persons and property by air within the United States, each

of the contracting parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such manner as to prevent any rate or rates proposed by one of its airlines for services from the territory of one contracting party to a

point or points in the territory of the other contracting party from becoming effective, if in the judgment of the aeronautical authorities

Notice ofdissatisfaction with proposed
rate.

of the contracting party whose airline or airlines is or are proposing such rate, that rate is unfair or uneconomic. If one of the contracting parties on receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph (C) above is dissatisfied with the rate proposed by the airline or air-

lines of the other contracting party, it shall so notify the other con-

tracting party prior to the expiry of the first fifteen of the thirty (30) days referred to , and the contracting parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.

63 STAT. ] FINLAND-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAR. 29, 1949

2557

In the event that such agreement is reached , each contracting party

will exercise its best efforts to put such rate into effect as regards its airline or airlines.
If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty (30) day period referred to in paragraph (C) above, the proposed rate may, unless the aeronautical authorities of the country of the airline

Provisional rate pending settlement of dispute,

concerned see fit to suspend its application, go into effect provisionally pending the settlement of any dispute in accordance with the procedure outlined in paragraph ( H) below.
(G) Prior to the time when such power may be conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States, if one of the

contracting parties is dissatisfied with any rate proposed by the airline or airlines of either contracting party for services from the territory of one contracting party to a point or points in the territory of the other contracting party, it shall so notify the other prior to the expiry of the first fifteen ( 15 ) of the thirty ( 30) day period referred to in paragraph ( C ) above, and the contracting parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
In the event that such agreement is reached, each contracting party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its airline or airlines.

It is recognized that if no such agreement can be reached prior to

the expiry of such thirty ( 30 ) days, the contracting party raising the objection to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in

question at the rate complained of. (H ) When in any case under paragraphs ( F ) and ( G) above the
aeronautical authorities of the two contracting parties cannot agree

Advisory report by ICAO .

within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one contracting party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the airline or airlines of the

other contracting party, upon the request of either, both contracting parties shall submit the question to the International Civil Aviation Organization for an advisory report, and each party will use its best

efforts under the powers available to it to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report.

SCHEDULE

1. An airline or airlines designated by the Government of the United States of America shall be entitled to operate air services on the air routes specified in this paragraph , via intermediate points, in both directions, and to make scheduled landings in Finland at the points so specified :
The United States over a North Atlantic route to Helsinki.

2. An airline or airlines designated by the Government of Finland shall be entitled to operate air services on the air routes specified in this paragraph, via intermediate points, in both directions, and to

2558

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
make scheduled landings in the United States at the points so specified :
Finland over a North Atlantic route to New York. 3. Points on any of the specified routes may at the option of the designated airline or airlines be omitted on any or all flights.

63 STAT.] NETHERLANDS - EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-MAY 17, 1949

2559

Agreement and exchange of notes between the United States of America and the Netherlands respecting a United States Educational Foundation in the Netherlands . Signed at The Hague May 17, 1949; entered into force May 17, 1949.

May 17, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1946]

81939-52-PT. III- -17

2560

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

AGREEMENT

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 3924.

between the Government of the United States of America
and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for the use of funds made available in accordance with the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Regarding Settlement for Lend -Lease , Reciprocal Aid , Surplus Property , Military Relief , and Claims , signed at Washington , D.C. , on May 28 , 1947.

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. 1641 (b).

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands ;
Desiring to promote further mutual understanding between the peoples of the United States of America and the Kingdom of the Netherlands by a wider exchange of knowledge and professional talents through educational contacts ;
Considering that Section 32 ( b ) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended by Public Law 584 , 79th Congress , provides that the Secretary of State of the United States of America may enter into an agreement with any foreign government for the use of currencies or credits for currencies of such foreign government acquired as a result of surplus property disposals for certain educational activities ; and
Considering that under the provisions of the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of the

63 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-MAY 17, 1949

2561

OVEREENKOMST
tussen de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden betreffende het gebruik van gelden welke beschikbaar worden gesteld ingevolge de tussen de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden op 28 Mei 1947 te Washington , D.C. , ondertekende Overeenkomst tot regeling van de wederzijdse vorderingen en schulden uit hoofde van de uitvoering van de Leen- en Pachtovereenkomst , de uitvoering van de Overeenkomst tot Wederkerige Hulpverlening , de Verkoop van Overtollige Legergoederen , en de uitvoering van het Militaire Hulpprogramma voor de Civiele Bevolking .
De Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden ;
Verlangende het wederzijdse begrip tussen de volken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden
verder te bevorderen door een ruimere uitwisseling van kennis en vakkundigheid door contact op het gebied van het onderwijs ;
Overwegende , dat Afdeling 32 ( b ) der Amerikaanse Wet van
1944 betreffende Overtollige Legergoederen , zoals deze tijdens
de 79ste zitting van het Congres bij Algemene Wet No. 584 gewijzigd is , bepaalt dat de Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Ver-
enigde Staten van Amerika met de regering van een ander land een
overeenkomst kan sluiten betreffende het gebruik van door verkoop van overtollige legergoederen verkregen betaalmiddelen of cre-
dieten in de valuta van dat andere land voor bepaalde werkzaamheden op het gebied van onderwijs ;
Overwegende , dat onder de bepalingen van de tussen de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en de Regering van het Koninkrijk

2562
61 Stat . , Pt. 4, p. 3932.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT. Netherlands Regarding Settlement for Lend -Lease , Reciprocal Aid , Surplus Property , Military Relief , and Claims , signed at Washington , D.C. , on May 28 , 1947 (hereinafter designated the " Settlement Agreement " ) , it is provided that the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands , when requested by the Government of the United States of America , will make available at any time or times , by payment to the Government of the United States of America or to such persons or organizations as the Government of the United States of America may designate , Netherlands currency in any amount (computed as provided in Sub -paragraph 7 E of the Settlement Agreement ) not in excess of the then unpaid portion of the total principal amount plus past due interest , for the payment of the cost of educational programs agreed upon by the two Governments ,

The Foundation.

Have agreed as follows : Article 1
There shall be established a foundation to be known as the United States Educational Foundation in the Netherlands (hereinafter designated " the Foundation " ) , which shall be recognized by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands as an organization created and established to facilitate the administration of the educational program to be financed by funds made available by the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands under the terms of the present Agreement . Except as provided

63 STAT.] NETHERLANDS - EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAY 17, 1949
der Nederlanden op 28 Mei 1947 te Washington , D.C. , ondertekende Overeenkomst tot regeling van de wederzijdse vorderingen en schulden uit hoofde van de uitvoering van de Leen- en Pachtovereenkomst , de uitvoering van de Overeenkomst tot Wederkerige Hulpverlening , de Verkoop van Overtollige Legergoederen , en de uitvoering van het Militaire Hulpprogramma voor de Civiele Bevolking ( hierna te noemen " Schuldvereffenings -Overeenkomst " ) is vastgesteld , dat de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden , wanneer de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika zulks verzoekt , aan laatstgenoemde Regering of aan die personen of instellingen , welke de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika daartoe aanwijst , te allen tijde Nederlands courant ( berekend volgens de bepaling van Artikel 7 sub E der Schuldvereffenings -Overeenkomst ) tot een bedrag , niet uitgaande boven het alsdan nog niet betaalde gedeelte van de totale hoofd som vermeerderd met de achterstallige rente , ter beschikking zal stellen voor het bekostigen van door de beide Regeringen goedgekeurde onderwijsprogramma's ;
Zijn het volgende overeengekomen :
Artikel 1 Er wordt een stichting ingesteld onder de naam van Amerikaanse Onderwijs Stichting in Nederland ( hierna te noemen " de Stichting " ) , welke door de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden erkend wordt als een organisatie , ingesteld en opgericht om de uitvoering te vergemakkelijken van het onderwijs programma , dat bekostigd wordt uit de krachtens de bepalingen dezer Overeenkomst door de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden beschikbaar gestelde gelden . Behoudens het in

2563

2564
Use offunds.
60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1641 (b).

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT. in Article 3 hereof the Foundation shall be exempt from the domestic and local laws of the United States of America and the Kingdom of the Netherlands , as they relate to the use and expenditure of currencies and credits for currencies , for the purposes set forth in the present Agreement .
The funds made available by the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands , within the conditions and limitations hereinafter set forth , shall be used by the Foundation or such other instrumentality as may be agreed upon by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for the purpose , as set forth in Section 32 ( b ) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended , of
( 1 ) financing studies , research , instruction , and other educational activities of or for citizens of the United States of America in schools and institutions of higher learning located in the Netherlands , Surinam , and the Netherlands West Indies , or of the nationals of the Netherlands , Surinam , and the Netherlands West Indies in United States schools and institutions of higher learning located outside the continental United States , Hawaii , Alaska ( including the Aleutian Islands ) , Puerto Rico , and the Virgin Islands , including payment for transportation , tuition , maintenance , and other expenses incident to scholastic activities ; or
(2 ) furnishing transportation for nationals of the Netherlands , Surinam , and the Netherlands West Indies who desire to attend United States schools and institutions of higher learning in the continental United States ,

63 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-MAY 17, 1949
Artikel 3 dezer Overeenkomst bepaalde , valt de Stichting buiten de werking der nationale en plaatselijke wetten der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden in zover deze betrekking hebben op het besteden en uitgeven van betaalmiddelen en credieten in valuta voor de in deze Overeenkomst vermelde doeleinden .
De door de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden volgens de hierna genoemde voorwaarden en beperkingen beschikbaar gestelde gelden worden door de Stichting of door een andere instelling , door de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden wederzijds goedgekeurd , aangewend voor de volgende in Afdeling 32 ( b ) van de gewijzigde Amerikaanse Wet van 1944 op Overtollige Legergoederen genoemde doeleinden :
(1 ) het bekostigen van studie , wetenschappelijk onderzoek , onderricht en andere werkzaamheden op onderwijsgebied door of voor burgers van de Verenigde Staten van Amerika aan scholen en instellingen van hoger onderwijs , gevestigd in Nederland , Suriname of de Nederlandse Antillen , of door onderdanen van Nederland , Suriname en de Nederlandse Antillen aan Amerikaanse scholen en instellingen van hoger onderwijs , gelegen buiten het vaste land van de Verenigde Staten , Hawaii , Alaska (met de Aleoeten ) , Porto Rico en de Virginische Eilanden , met inbegrip van de reiskosten , school- en collegegeld , levensonderhoud en andere uitgaven, welke onderwijs- en wetenschappelijk werk met zich mede brengen ; ( 2) het verschaffen van vrije overtocht aan onderdanen van Nederland , Suriname en de Nederlandse Antillen , die Amerikaanse scholen en instellingen van hoger onderwijs wensen te bezoeken , gelegen binnen het vaste land der Verenigde Staten ,

2565

2566

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Hawaii , Alaska ( including the Aleutian Islands ) , Puerto Rico , and the Virgin Islands and whose attendance will not deprive citizens of the United States of America of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions .

Powers ofthe Foun. dation.
60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1641 (b).

Article 2 In furtherance of the aforementioned purposes , the Foundation may , subject to the provisions of Article 10 of the present Agreement , exercise all powers necessary to the carrying out of the purposes of the present Agreement including the following : ( 1 ) Receive funds . ( 2 ) Open and operate bank accounts in the name of the Foundation in a depository or depositories to be designated by the Secretary of State of the United States of America . (3 ) Disburse funds and make grants and advances of funds for the authorized purposes of the Foundation . ( 4 ) Acquire , hold , and dispose of property in the name of the Foundation as the Board of Directors of the Foundation may consider necessary or desirable , provided , however , that the acquisition of any real property shall be subject to the prior approval of the Secretary of State of the United States of America . (5) Plan , adopt , and carry out programs , in accordance with the purposes of Section 32 ( b ) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended , and the purposes of this Agreement .

63 STAT.] NETHERLANDS -EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION--MAY 17, 1949
Hawaii , Alaska ( met de Aleoeten ) , Porto Rico en de Virginische Eilanden en wier aanwezigheid burgers van de Verenigde Staten van Amerika niet de gelegenheid ontneemt genoemde scholen en instellingen te bezoeken .
Artikel 2 Ter bevordering van bovengenoemde doeleinden , kan de Stichting , behoudens het bepaalde in Artikel 10 van deze Overeenkomst , al het nodige verrichten om het doel van deze Overeenkomst te verwezenlijken , daaronder begrepen ( 1 ) Het in ontvangst nemen van gelden . ( 2 ) Het openen van en beschikken over bankrekeningen ten name van de Stichting bij een of meerdere door de Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika aan te wijzen deposito - instellingen . ( 3 ) Het verstrekken van fondsen , het verlenen van toelagen en voorschotten voor de toegestane doeleinden van de Stichting . (4 ) Het verkrijgen , bezitten en vervreemden van eigendommen ten name van de Stichting , al naar de Raad van Bestuur der Stichting dit noodzakelijk of gewenst acht , met dien verstande echter , dat voor het verkrijgen van onroerend goed de voorafgaande goedkeuring van de Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika vereist wordt . ( 5) Het opstellen , aannemen en uitvoeren van programma's , die in overeenstemming zijn met de in Afdeling 32 ( b) van de Amerikaanse Wet van 1944 op Overtollige Legergoederen , zoals deze gewijzigd is , en de in deze Overeenkomst genoemde doeleinden .

2567

81939-52- PT. III- -18

2568
60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. 1641 (b).

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT. (6 ) Recommend to the Board of Foreign Scholarships , provided for in the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended , students , professors , research scholars , residents in the Netherlands , Surinam , and the Netherlands West Indies , and institutions of the Netherlands , Surinam , and the Netherlands West Indies qualified to participate in the program in accordance with the aforesaid Act . (7) Recommend to the aforesaid Board of Foreign Scholarships such qualifications for the selection of participants in the programs as it may deem necessary for achieving the purpose and objectives of the Foundation . (8 ) Provide for periodic audits of the accounts of the Foundation as directed by auditors selected by the Secretary of State of the United States of America . (9) Engage administrative and clerical staff and fix the salaries and wages thereof .

Expenditures; annual budget.

Article 3 All expenditures by the Foundation shall be made pursuant to an annual budget to be approved by the Secretary of State of the United States of America pursuant to such regulations as he may prescribe .

Article 4 The Foundation shall not enter into any commitments or create any obligation which shall bind the Foundation in excess of the funds actually on hand nor acquire , hold , or dispose of property except for the purposes authorized in the present Agreement .

63 STAT.] NETHERLANDS- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-MAY 17, 1949
(6) Het aanbevelen bij de Raad voor Buitenlandse Studiebeurzen , bedoeld in de Amerikaanse wet van 1944 op Overtollige Legergoederen , zoals deze gewijzigd is , van studenten , hoogleraren en wetenschappelijke onderzoekers , woonachtig in Nederland , Suriname of de Nederlandse Antillen en van instellingen in Nederland , Suriname en de Nederlandse Antillen , die aan de gestelde vereisten voor deelneming aan de programma's overeenkomstig genoemde Wet voldoen . (7) Het doen van aanbevelingen bij voornoemde Raad voor Buitenlandse Studiebeurzen betreffende de te stellen vereisten bij de keuze van deelnemers aan de programma's , welke zij noodzakelijk acht voor het verwezenlijken van doel en opzet van de Stichting . (8) Het nemen van maatregelen voor periodieke controle van de rekeningen der Stichting , overeenkomstig de voorschriften van door de Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika gekozen accountants . (9) Het aanstellen van administratief- en kantoorpersoneel en het vaststellen van hun salarissen en lonen .
Artikel 3 Alle uitgaven van de Stichting worden gedaan overeenkomstig een door de Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika goed te keuren jaarlijkse begroting en overeenkomstig de regelen die hij voorschrijft .
Artikel 4 De Stichting mag geen verbintenissen aangaan of verplichtingen op zich nemen , die de Stichting binden tot uitgaven , welke de werkelijk beschikbare gelden te boven gaan , noch eigendommen verkrijgen , bezitten of vervreemden anders dan voor de bij deze Overeenkomst toegestane doeleinden.

2569

2570

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Board of Directors.

Article 5 The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of ten

members ( hereinafter designated the "Board " ) , five of whom shall be citizens of the United States of America and five of whom shall

be nationals of the Kingdom of the Netherlands . Of the citizens of the United States a minimum of three shall be officers of

the United States Foreign Service establishment in the Netherlands . The principal officer in charge of the diplomatic mission

of the United States of America to the Netherlands (hereinafter

Honorary Chairman.

designated as the " Chief of Mission " ) , shall be Honorary Chairman of the Board . He shall cast the deciding vote in the event

of a tie vote by the Board and shall appoint the Chairman of the Board . The United States citizens on the Board shall be appointed

and removed by the Chief of Mission ; the nationals of the King-

dom of the Netherlands on the Board shall be designated by the

Members of Board.

Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands . The members shall serve from the time of their appointment
until one year from the following December 31 and shall be

eligible for reappointment . Vacancies by reason of resignation ,

transfer of residence outside the Netherlands , expiration of term of service or otherwise , shall be filled in accordance with this procedure . The members shall serve without compens-

ation , but the Board is authorized to pay the necessary expenses of the members in attending the meetings of the Board .

63 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAY 17, 1949
Artikel 5 Het beheren en besturen van de zaken van de Stichting wordt opgedragen aan een Raad van Bestuur , ( hierna aangeduid als " de Raad" ) bestaande uit tien leden , waarvan vijf burgers der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en vijf onderdanen van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden . Van de burgers der Verenigde Staten zullen er minstens drie. ambtenaren van de Post van de Buitenlandse Dienst der Verenigde Staten in Nederland zijn . De ambtenaar , die aan het hoofd staat van de diplomatieke missie der Verenigde Staten van Amerika in Nederland ( hierna aangeduld als " Hoofd der Missie " ) is Ere -Voorzitter van de Raad . Hij heeft bij staking van stemmen in de Raad de beslissende stem en hij benoemt de Voorzitter van de Raad . Het Hoofd der Missie benoemt en ontslaat de Amerikaanse leden van de Raad ; de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden stelt de Nederlandse leden van de Raad aan .
De leden hebben zitting in de Raad van het tijdstip hunner benoeming tot één jaar na de daaropvolgende 31ste December en zijn herbenoembaar . Bovenstaande regeling geldt eveneens voor de vervulling van vacatures ontstaan door aftreden , vestiging buiten Nederland , het verstrijken van de zittingstermijn , of anderszins .
De leden ontvangen geen vergoeding voor hun diensten , doch de Raad is bevoegd om de voor het bijwonen van de vergaderingen van de Raad noodzakelijke onkosten van de leden te betalen .

2571

2572

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Article 6

By-laws and com. mittees.

The Board shall adopt such by -laws and appoint such committees

as it shall deem necessary for the conduct of the affairs of the

Foundation.

Annual reports.

Article 7 Reports as directed by the Secretary of State of the United

States of America shall be made annually on the activities of the

Foundation to the Secretary of State of the United States of

America and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands . Article 8

Principal office, etc.

The principal office of the Foundation shall be in The Hague ,

but meetings of the Board and of any of its committees may be held

in such other places as the Board may from time to time determine ,

and the activities of any of the Foundation's officers or staff

may be carried on at such places as may be approved by the Board .

Executive Officer.

Article 9 The Board may appoint an Executive Officer and determine

his salary and term of service , provided however , that in the event it is found to be impracticable for the Board to secure an appointee acceptable to the Chairman , the Government of the

United States of America may provide an Executive Officer and such assistants as may be deemed necessary to ensure the effective operation of the program. The Executive Officer shall be

responsible for the direction and supervision of the Board's programs and activities in accordance with the Board's resol-

utions and directives . In his absence or disability , the Board

may appoint a substitute for such time as it deems necessary or desirable .

63 STAT.] NETHERLANDS -EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-MAY 17, 1949
Artikel 6 De Raad stelt een huishoudelijk reglement vast en benoemt commissies al naar hij noodzakelijk acht voor de behartiging van de aan de Stichting toevertrouwde belangen .
Artikel 2 Jaarlijks worden door de Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika voorgeschreven verslagen over de werkzaamheden van de Stichting uitgebracht aan de Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden .
Artikel 8 Het hoofdkantoor van de Stichting wordt gevestigd te ' s -Gravenhage , doch vergaderingen van de Raad en van elk van zijn commissies kunnen worden gehouden op andere plaatsen indien de Raad bij voorkomende gelegenheid daartoe besluit en de werkzaamheden van ieder der ambtenaren van de Stichting en van het overige personeel kunnen worden verricht op alle plaatsen , waaraan de Raad zijn goedkeuring geeft . Artikel 9 De Raad kan een Directeur benoemen en zijn salaris en zijn termijn van dienst vaststellen , echter met dien verstande , dat ingeval het de Raad onmogelijk blijkt om een voor de Voorzitter aanvaardbare benoeming te doen , de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika een Directeur kan aanwijzen alsook die assistenten , welke noodzakelijk worden geacht ter verzekering van de doelmatige uitvoering van het programma . De Directeur is verantwoordelijk voor de leiding van en het toezicht op de uitvoering van de volgens de besluiten en aanwijzingen van de Raad op te stellen programma's en werkzaamheden . In geval van diens afwezigheid of verhindering , kan de Raad voor zolang hem noodzakelijk of wenselijk voorkomt een plaatsvervanger benoemen .

2573

2574

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Review of decisions.

Article 10 The decisions of the Board in all matters may, in the dis-

cretion of the Secretary of State of the United States of America ,

be subject to his review .

Article 11

Deposits by Gov-
ernment of Kingdom of Netherlands.

The Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands shall , within 30 days from the date of signature of the present Agreement ,

and on each January 1 thereafter , deposit with.the Treasurer of the United States of America an amount of currency of the Govern-

ment of the Kingdom of the Netherlands equivalent to $ 250,000

(U.S. currency ) until an aggregate amount of the currency of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands equivalent to $ 5,000,000 ( U.S. currency ) shall have been deposited . The

deposits specified above shall be made in partial fulfillment of

61 Stat . , Pt. 4, p. 3931.
Rate of exchange.

the provisions under paragraph 7 of the Settlement Agreement . The rate of exchange between currency of the Government of

the Kingdom of the Netherlands and United States currency to be

used in determining the amount of currency of the Government of

the Kingdom of the Netherlands to be deposited from time to time

hereunder , shall be determined in accordance with Article 7 E of the Settlement Agreement .

The Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands shall

guarantee the United States of America against loss resulting

from any alteration in the above rate of exchange or from any

currency conversion with respect to any currency of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands received hereunder and

held by the Treasurer of the United States of America or by the

Foundation by undertaking to pay to the Government of the United

States of America such amounts of currency of the Government of

the Kingdom of the Netherlands as are necessary to maintain the

63 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAY 17, 1949
Artikel 10 In elke aangelegenheid , waarin de Raad een beslissing neemt , kan deze door de Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika , wanneer hij zulks verkiest , worden herzien .
Artikel 11 De Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden zal , binnen 30 dagen na de datum van ondertekening van deze Overeenkomst , en vervolgens telkens op 1 Januari , een bedrag in Nederlands courant gelijk aan $ 250.000 ( valuta der Verenigde Staten ) in de Schatkist der Verenigde Staten storten , totdat een totaal bedrag in Nederlands courant gelijk aan $ 5.000.000 ( valuta der Verenigde Staten ) zal zijn gestort . De hierboven gespecificeerde bedragen zullen worden gestort ter gedeeltelijke uitvoering van de bepalingen van Artikel 7 van de SchuldvereffeningsOvereenkomst . De wisselkoers tussen de valuta van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden en die der Verenigde Staten , welke zal gelden bij het vaststellen van de krachtens deze Overeenkomst telkens te storten bedragen in Nederlands courant , zal worden vastgesteld overeenkomstig Artikel 7 , sub , van de SchuldvereffeningsOvereenkomst . De Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden zal de Verenigde Staten van Amerika vrijwaren voor verlies voortvloeiende uit een verandering in bovengenoemde wisselkoers of tengevolge van een omwisseling van betaalmiddelen , voor wat betreft Nederlandse betaalmiddelen krachtens deze Overeenkomst ontvangen en in het bezit van de Schatkist der Verenigde Staten van Amerika of van de Stichting , door zich te verplichten aan de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika die bedragen in Nederlands courant te betalen welke nodig zijn om de

2575

2576
Tax exemptions. Post, p. 2583.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
dollar value of such currency of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands as is held by the Treasurer of the United States of America or the Foundation . The purpose of this prvision is to assure that the operations of the Foundation will not be interrupted or restricted by any deficits resulting from alterations in the above rate of exchange or from currency conversions .
The Secretary of State of the United States of America will make available for expenditure by the Foundation currency of the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in such amounts as may be required by the Foundation but in no event in excess of the budgetary limitation established pursuant to Article 3 of the present Agreement .
Article 12
Furniture , equipment , supplies , and any other articles intended for the official use of the Foundation shall be exempt in the territory of the Kingdom of the Netherlands , Surinam , and the Netherlands West Indies from customs duties , excises , and surtaxes , and every other form of taxation .
All funds and other property used for the purposes of the Foundation , and all official acts of the Foundation within the scope of its purposes shall likewise be exempt from taxation of every kind in the territory of the Kingdom of the Netherlands , Surinam , and the Netherlands West Indies .

63 STAT.] NETHERLANDS EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAY 17, 1949
waarde in dollars van de Nederlandse betaalmiddelen , die de Schatkist der Verenigde Staten van Amerika of de Stichting onder zich heeft , te handhaven. De strekking van deze bepaling is zekerheid te scheppen , dat de werkzaamheden der Stichting niet onderbroken of belemmerd zullen worden door tekorten , als gevolg van veranderingen in voormelde wisselkoers of van omwisseling van betaalmiddelen .
De Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika zal voor de uitgaven der Stichting de benodigde bedragen in Nederlands courant beschikbaar stellen , welke in geen geval de krachtens Artikel 3 van deze Overeenkomst vastgestelde begrotingsgrenzen mogen overschrijden .
Artikel 12
Meubilair , installatie , benodigdheden en andere artikelen , bestemd voor officieel gebruik door de Stichting , zijn binnen het grondgebied van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden , Suriname en de Nederlandse Antillen vrijgesteld van invoerrechten , accijnzen en opcenten , en van elke andere vorm van belasting .
Alle voor de doeleinden van de Stichting gebruikte gelden en andere eigendommen , en alle officiële handelingen van de Stichting binnen het kader van haar opzet zijn eveneens vrijgesteld van iedere vorm van belasting binnen het grondgebied van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden , Suriname en de Nederlandse Antillen .

2577

2578

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Article 13

The Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands shall extend to American citizens residing in the Kingdom of the Netherlands , Surinam , and the Netherlands West Indies and engaged in educational activities under the auspices of the Foundation such privileges with respect to exemption from taxation and other burdens affecting the entry , travel , and residence of such persons as are extended to nationals of the Kingdom of the Netherlands residing in the United States of America engaged in similar activities .

Article 14

"Secretary of State of the United States of America."

Wherever , in the present Agreement , the term " Secretary of State of the United States of America " is used , it shall be understood to mean the Secretary of State of the United States of America or any officer or employee of the Government of the United States of America designated by him to act in his behalf.

Article 15

Amendment, interpretation, etc.

The present Agreement may be amended by the exchange of diplomatic notes between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands .
If any difference arises in regard to the interpretation of any article of or expression in this Agreement , the parties to the Agreement shall settle such difference by direct negotiation through diplomatic channels.

63 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAY 17, 1949 Artikel 13
De Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden verleent aan Amerikaanse burgers , die in het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden , Suriname of de Nederlandse Antillen verblijven en daar onder de auspicin van de Stichting werkzaamheden op het gebied van onderwijs verrichten , dezelfde voorrechten ten aanzien van vrijstelling van belasting en andere op toelating , reizen en verblijf van zulke personen rustende lasten , als die , welke verleend worden aan Nederlanders , die in de Verenigde Staten van Amerika verblijven en zich daar met soortgelijke werkzaamheden bezig houden .
Artikel 14
Waar in deze Overeenkomst de benaming "Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika " wordt gebruikt , is daaronder te verstaan de Minister van Buitenlandse Zaken der Verenigde Staten van Amerika of elke ambtenaar of beambte van de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika , die door hem is aangewezen om namens hem te handelen .
Artikel 15
Deze Overeenkomst kan worden gewijzigd door een diplomatieke notawisseling tussen de Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden .
Indien er verschil van mening ontstaat over de uitleg van een artikel van of van een uitdrukking in deze Overeenkomst , wordt zulk een verschil door rechtstreekse onderhandeling tussen de partijen bij deze Overeenkomst langs diplomatieke weg opgelost .

2579

2580
Exchange of persons programs.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT. Article 16
The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands shall make every effort to facilitate the exchange of persons programs authorized in this Agreement and to resolve problems which may arise in the operation thereof .

Entry into force.

Article 12
The present Agreement shall come into force upon the date of signature .

IN ITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned , being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments , have signed the present Agreement .
DONE at The Hague , in duplicate , in the English and Dutch languages , this 17th day of May , 1949 .
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :

Herman

Baruch

63 STAT. ] NETHERLANDS- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAY 17, 1949 Artikel 16
De Regering der Verenigde Staten van Amerika en de Regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden zullen alles in het werk stellen om de programma's voor de uitwisseling van personen , waarin deze Overeenkomst voorziet , te bevorderen en de moeilijkheden , welke zich bij de uitvoering daarvan mochten voordoen, op te lossen .
Artikel 17 Deze Overeenkomst treedt in werking op de datum van ondertekening .
TEN BLIJKE WAARVAN de Ondergetekenden , die te dien einde behoorlijk gemachtigd zijn door hun onderscheidene Regeringen , deze Overeenkomst hebben ondertekend .
GEDAAN te ' s -Gravenhage , in tweevoud , in de Engelse en e
Nederlandse taal , op deze 17 dag van Mei 1949 .
VOOR DE REGERING VAN HET KONINKRIJK DER NEDERLANDÉN:

2581

[SEAL]

2582

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

The Netherlands Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

Ministry of Foreign Affairs. YOUR EXCELLENCY,

THE HAGUE, 177th May 1949.

On signing today the Agreement for the use of funds made available in accordance with the Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Government of the United States of America, regarding Settlement for Lend-Lease, Reciprocal Aid, Surplus Property, Military Relief and Claims, signed at Washp.61392S4.tat ., Pt. 4 , ington D. C. on May 28, 1947, I have the honour to refer to the exchange of letters during the months of June and July 1948 [ 1 ] between Her Majesty's Embassy at Washington D. C. and the Department of State, concerning the interpretation of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 12 of the aforesaid Agreement and pursuant thereto I herewith confirm that it is agreed that :

Article 12, paragraph 1 :

"Furniture, equipment, supplies and any other articles intended for the official use of the Foundation" does not include such articles intended for personal use of members of the Board of Directors.

Article 12, paragraph 2 :

It is understood that the Foundation will be exempt from customduties, excises or surtaxes in all cases where such taxation is clearly

distinguishable such as import duties on imported goods. If goods are bought in the open market, excise and other indirect taxes will not be deducted from the purchasing price when the goods are bought.
The Netherlands Government, in order to avoid administrative complications, would appreciate if the Foundation should refrain

from requesting a refund of such indirect, more or less "hidden" taxes. If this would not be feasible a procedure would have to be considered by which a refund could be made on for instance sales-tax.
The Foundation itself will not be taxed. No exemption can be

granted of payment of registration dues, stampduties or notary- fees in the case of sales of real property or leases thereof.
I would be grateful to have Your Excellency's confirmation on behalf of the Government of the United States of the above interpreta-

tions and I have the honour to suggest that the present Note and Your Excellency's reply to that effect should be considered as placing on record the formal agreement of the two Governments in this matter.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
STIKKER His Excellency
Dr. HERMAN B. BARUCH, Ambassador extraordinary and

plenipotentiary

1 ¹

Not

printed.

ofthe United States of America.

63 STAT.] NETHERLANDS-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAY 17, 1949

2583

The American Ambassador to the Netherlands Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY. YOUR EXCELLENCY,

THE HAGUE, 17th May 1949.

On signing today the Agreement for the use of funds made avail-

able in accordance with the Agreement made between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the King-

dom of the Netherlands regarding Settlement for Lend -Lease, Recip-

rocal Aid, Surplus Property, Military Relief and Claims, signed at Washington on May 28, 1947, I have the honor to refer to the exchange of letters during the months of June and July 1948 between the Department of State and the Netherlands Embassy in

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 3924.

Washington concerning the interpretation of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 12 of the aforesaid Agreement and pursuant thereto I herewith confirm that it is agreed that :

Article 12, Paragraph 1 :

"Furniture, equipment, supplies, and any other articles intended for the official use of the Foundation" does not include such articles intended for personal use of members of the Board of Directors.
Article 12, Paragraph 2 : It is understood that the Foundation will be exempt from customduties, excises or surtaxes in all cases where such taxation is clearly distinguishable, such as import duties on imported goods. If goods are bought in the open market, excise and other indirect taxes will not be deducted from the purchase price when goods are bought.
The Government of the United States of America acknowledges that administrative complications may be involved in the collection of refunds of indirect taxes. It however suggests that a procedure be established whereby refunds can be made upon presentation of suitable documentation to the Netherlands Government.
The Government of the United States of America understands that the Educational Foundation established under the Fulbright Agreement will itself not be taxed . No exemption will be made, however, of payment of registration dues, stamp duties, or notary fees in the case of sales of real property or leases thereof.

I have the honor to agree that this Note, together with Your Excellency's Note dated 17th May 1949, shall be considered as placing on record the formal agreement of the two Governments in this matter.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
HERMAN B BARUCH His Excellency
Dr. D. U. STIKKER, Royal Netherlands Minister for Foreign Affairs, The Hague.

2584

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

July 5, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1947]

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting Air Force liaison officers. Signed at Washington July 5, 1949; entered into force July 5, 1949.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ACUERDO ENTRE EL GOGOVERNMENT OF THE BIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNITED STATES OF AMER- UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y EL ICA AND THE GOVERN- GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTAMENT OF THE UNITED DOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICAN STATES

In conformity with the request De conformidad con la solicitud

of the Government of the United del Gobierno de los Estados UniMexican States to the Govern- dos Mexicanos al Gobierno de los

ment of the United States of Estados Unidos de América, el America, the President of the Presidente de los Estados Unidos United States of America has de América ha autorizado el nom-

authorized the appointment of bramiento de oficiales de la Fuerza officers of the United States Air Aérea de los Estados Unidos para Force to serve as Liaison Officers comisionarlos como Oficiales de

to the Secretary of National De- Enlace ante el Secretario de la fense of the United Mexican States Defensa Nacional de los Estados

under the conditions specified be- Unidos Mexicanos, de acuerdo con

low :

las condiciones que se estipulan

a continuación:

TITLE I

TITULO I

Purpose and Duration

Finalidades y Duración

Article 1

Artículo 1

The purpose of assigning the El fin de los Oficiales de Enlace

Liaison Officers is to cooperate es cooperar con el Secretario de la with the Secretary of National Defensa Nacional de los Estados Defense of the United Mexican Unidos Mexicanos y con el per-

States and with personnel of the sonal de las Fuerzas Aéreas Mexi-

Mexican Air Force.

canas .

Article 2

Artículo 2

This Agreement shall continue Este Acuerdo permanecerá en in force for a period of two years vigor por un período de dos años from the date of the signing there- a partir de la fecha en que lo of by the accredited representa- firmen los representantes autoritives of the Government of the zados del Gobierno de los Estados United States of America and the Unidos de América y del Gobierno Government of the United Mexi- de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos , can States, unless previously a menos que se dé por terminado

63 STAT. ] MEXICO- AIR FORCE LIAISON OFFICERS JULY 5, 1949

2585

terminated or extended as herein- con anterioridad o que se pro-

after provided . Any of the Liai- rrogue según se dispone más ade-

son Officers may be recalled by lante. Cualquiera de los Oficiales

the Government of the United de Enlace podrá ser retirado por

States of America after the expi- el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

ration of two years of service, in de América después de trans-

which case another member shall curridos dos años de servicio y ,

be furnished to replace him.

en tal caso, se nombrará otro

miembro en su lugar.

Article 3

Artículo 3

Extension of servIf the Government of the Si el Gobierno de los Estados ices.

United Mexican States should Unidos Mexicanos desea que los

desire that the services of the servicios de los Oficiales de Enlace

Liaison Officers be extended be- se prorroguen más allá del período

yond the stipulated period , it estipulado , presentará por escrito

shall make a written proposal to una solicitud a tal efecto seis

that effect six months before the meses antes de la expiración de

expiration of this Agreement .

este Acuerdo.

Article 4

Artículo 4

Termination of This Agreement may be termi- Este Acuerdo podrá ser termi- agreement prior to
nated before the expiration of the nado antes de la expiración del specified time.

period of two years prescribed in período de dos años que dispone

Article 2 , or before the expiration el Artículo 2 , o antes de expirar la

of the extension authorized in prórroga autorizada en el Artículo

Article 3 , in the following manner: 3 , de la manera siguiente :

(a) By either of the Govern- (a) Por uno u otro de los dos

ments, subject to three months ' Gobiernos, siempre que el uno lo

written notice to the other Gov- notifique al otro por escrito con

ernment ;

tres meses de anticipación ;

(b) By the recall of the Liaison (b ) Al retirar el Gobierno de

Officers by the Government of los Estados Unidos de América the United States of America in los Oficiales de Enlace en interés

the public interest of the United público de los Estados Unidos de States of America, without neces- América, sin necesidad de cumplir

sity of compliance with provision con el inciso (a) de este Artículo ; (a) of this Article ;

(c) By the Government of the (c) Por el Gobierno de los United States of America in the Estados Unidos de América en el

case considered in Article 19 .

caso previsto en el Artículo 19 .

Article 5

Artículo 5

This Agreement is subject to

Este Acuerdo está sujeto a Cancellation in case of hostilities.

cancellation upon the initiative of cancelación por iniciativa, ya sea

either the Government of the del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

United States of America or the de América o del Gobierno de los

Government of the United Mexi- Estados Unidos Mexicanos , en

can States at any time during a cualquier momento durante un

period when either Government is período en que uno u otro de los

2586

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

involved in civil or foreign hos- dos Gobiernos se vea implicado

tilities .

en hostilidades internas o externas.

TITLE II

TITULO II

Composition and Personnel

Integración y Personal

Article 6

Artículo 6

The Liaison Officers shall be Los Oficiales de Enlace serán los

such personnel of the United States miembros de las Fuerzas Aéreas

Air Force as may be agreed upon de los Estados Unidos de América

by the Secretary of National De- que se determinen por acuerdo fense of the United Mexican States entre el Secretario de la Defensa

through his authorized representa- Nacional de los Estados Unidos

tive in Washington and by the Mexicanos, por conducto de su

United States Air Force .

representante autorizado en Wá-

shington, y la Fuerza Aérea de los Estados Unidos de América .

TITLE III

TITULO III

Duties, Rank, and Precedence

Funciones, Grado y Precedencia

Article 7

Artículo 7

The Liaison Officers shall per- Los Oficiales de Enlace ejercerán

form such duties as may be de- las funciones que determine el termined by the Secretary of Secretario de la Defensa Nacional National Defense of the United de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos . Mexican States.

Article 8

Artículo 8

The Liaison Officers shall be Los Oficiales de Enlace serán

responsible solely to the Secretary responsables únicamente al Secof National Defense of the United retario de la Defensa Nacional de

Mexican States or his designated los Estados Unidos Mexicanos o

representative.

a la persona en quien éste delegue

sus facultades .

Article 9

Artículo 9

The Liaison Officers shall serve Los Oficiales de Enlace pres-

with the rank they hold in the tarán sus servicios con el grado

United States Air Force and shall que tengan en la Fuerza Aérea de

wear the uniform of their rank in los Estados Unidos de América y

the United States Air Force.

usarán el uunniiffoorrmmee correspon-

diente a su grado en la Fuerza Aérea de los Estados Unidos de

América .

Article 10

Artículo 10

Benefits and privi. leges.

The Liaison Officers shall be

Los Oficiales de Enlace tendrán

Post, p. 2589.

entitled to all benefits and priv- derecho a todos los beneficios y

ileges which the Regulations of the privilegios que el Reglamento del

63 STAT. ] MEXICO-AIR FORCE LIAISON OFFICERS JULY 5, 1949

2587

Mexican Army provide for Mexi- Ejército Mexicano otorgue a los can officers of corresponding rank. oficiales mexicanos de grado co-
rrespondiente .

Article 11 As the Liaison Officers shall be

Artículo 11

Como los

Oficiales

de

Enlace

Disciplinary regulations.

governed by the disciplinary regu- se regirán por el Reglamento dislations of the Air Force of the ciplinario de la Fuerza Aérea de United States of America , in the los Estados Unidos de América,

case of a Liaison Officer commit- en caso de que un Oficial de Enlace ting an act that by its nature in cometa un acto que, por su

the opinion of the Mexican Gov- naturaleza , a juicio del Gobierno ernment deserves disciplinary ac- Mexicano, amerite ser sancionado , tion, the mentioned officer shall el referido Oficial será removido

be removed on request of the a solicitud de las autoridades Mexican authorities so that the mexicanas, a efecto de que se le

regulations of the United States apliquen los reglamentos de la

Air Force shall be applied in the Fuerza Aérea norteamericana en

territory of the United States of territorio de los Estados Unidos

America .

de América.

TITLE IV

TITULO IV

Compensation and Perquisites

·Remuneración y Obvenciones

Article 12

Artículo 12

The Liaison Officers shall re- Los Oficiales de Enlace receive from the Government of the cibirán del Gobierno de los EsUnited Mexican States such net tados Unidos Mexicanos la re-
annual compensation as may be muneración neta anual que acuagreed upon between the Govern- erden el Gobierno de los Estados ment of the United States of Unidos de América y el Gobierno America and the Government of de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos . the United Mexican States . This La remuneración se pagará en compensation shall be paid in doce ( 12 ) mensualidades iguales twelve ( 12 ) equal monthly install- que vencerán y se pagarán el día ments, each due and payable on último de cada mes. La remune-
the last day of the month . The ración no estará sujeta a impuesto compensation shall not be subject alguro que al presente o en adeto any tax, now or hereafter in lante imponga el Gobierno de los effect, of the Government of the Estados Unidos Mexicanos o
United Mexican States or of any alguna de sus subdivisiones políof its political or administrative ticas o administrativas. Sin emsubdivisions . Should there, how- bargo, si al presente o durante la ever, at present or while this vigencia de este Acuerdo exisAgreement is in effect , be any tieren impuestos que afecten a esta taxes that might affect this com- remuneración, tales impuestos sepensation, such taxes shall be rán sufragados por la Secretaría borne by the Ministry of National de la Defensa Nacional de los Defense of the United Mexican Estados Unidos Mexicanos a fin
States in order to comply with the de cumplir con la disposición de

Tax exemption.

2588

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

provisions of this Article that the este Artículo al efecto de que la

compensation agreed upon shall remuneración que se convenga sea

be net.

neta .

Article 13

Artículo 13

The compensation agreed upon La remuneración que se conas indicated in the preceding venga según se indica en el

Article shall commence upon the Artículo precedente comenzará a date of departure from the United devengarse desde la fecha en que States of America of each Liaison cada Oficial de Enlace parta de Officer and, except as otherwise los Estados Unidos de América y, expressly provided in this Agree- salvo lo que expresamente se disment, shall continue, following the ponga en contrario en este Acuertermination of his duty, for the do, continuará devengándose desreturn trip to the United States pués de terminadas sus funciones, of America and thereafter for the mientras dure el viaje de regreso a

period of any accumulated leave los Estados Unidos de América y,

which may be due.

además, durante el período de licencia acumulada a que tenga

derecho .

Article 14

Artículo 14

The compensation due for the La remuneración que se adeude

period of the return trip and ac- por la duración del viaje de

cumulated leave shall be paid to regreso y por la licencia acumulada

each Liaison Officer before his de- se pagará a cada Oficial de Enlace

parture from the United Mexican antes de su partida de los Estados

States, and such payment shall be Unidos Mexicanos , y el pago se

computed for travel by the short- calculará a base de viaje por la

est usually traveled route to the ruta más corta generalmente usada

port of entry in the United States hasta el puerto de entrada a los

of America, regardless of the route Estados Unidos de América , cual-

and method of travel used by the quiera que sea la ruta y el sistema

Liaison Officer.

de transporte que utilice el Oficial

de Enlace.

Article 15

Artículo 15

Exemption from customs duties.

The Government of the United

A solicitud de los Oficiales de

Mexican States shall grant, upon Enlace el Gobierno de los Estados

request of the Liaison Officers, ex- Unidos Mexicanos eximirá del

emption from customs duties on pago de derechos de aduana los articles imported for the official artículos que se importen para el

use of the Liaison Officers or the uso oficial o personal de los Ofici-

personal use of the Liaison Offi- ales de Enlace y de los miembros

cers and of members of their fam- de sus familias siempre que la

ilies , provided that the request for solicitud para entrada libre de

free entry has received the ap- derechos sea aprobada por el

proval of the Ambassador of the Embajador de los Estados Unidos

United States of America or the de América o por el Encargado

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.

de Negocios ad interim.

63 STAT. ] MEXICO-AIR FORCE LIAISON OFFICERS-JULY 5, 1949

2589

Article 16

Artículo 16

Compensation for transporta-

De conformidad con las dispo- Compensation for transportation and

tion and traveling expenses in the siciones del Artículo 10 el Gobi- traveling expenses.

United Mexican States on official erno de los Estados Unidos Mexi-

business of the Government of the canos reembolsará los gastos de

United Mexican States shall be transporte y de viaje efectuados provided by the Government of en los Estados Unidos Mexicanos

the United Mexican States in ac- cuando se trate de asuntos oficia-

cordance with the provisions of les del Gobierno de los Estados

Article 10 .

Unidos Mexicanos.

Ante, p. 2586.

Article 17

Artículo 17

The Government of the United Mexican States shall provide the Liaison Officers with a suitable

El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos proporcionará a los Oficiales de Enlace un auto-

Provision of motor and air transportation
for Liaison Officers.

automobile with chauffeur, for use móvil con chófer, para uso oficial. on official business . Suitable El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

motor transportation with chauf- Mexicanos , a solicitud, proporciofeur, and when necessary an air- nará automóviles con chófer y, plane properly equipped , shall on cuando sea necesario, un aerocall be made available by the plano debidamente provisto para Government of the United Mexi- el uso de los Oficiales de Enlace can States for use by the Liaison en el desempeño de sus funciones Officers for the conduct of their oficiales . official business .

Article 18

Artículo 18

The Government of the United El Gobierno de los Estados

Mexican States shall provide suit- Unidos Mexicanos proveerá local

able office space and facilities for adecuado para oficinas y facili-

the use of the Liaison Officers .

dades para uso de los Oficiales de

Enlace .

Office space.

TITLE V

TITULO V

Requisites and Conditions

Requisitos y Condiciones

Article 19

Artículo 19

Services of personnel If, while this Agreement or any Si durante la vigencia de este of other foreign govern-

extension thereof is in force, the Acuerdo o de su prorrogación el ments. Government of the United Mexi- Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

can States should wish to engage Mexicanos tuviere el propósito de the services of personnel of some contratar los servicios de personal other foreign government, for de algún otro Gobierno extranjero duties of any nature in connection para funciones de cualquier nawith the Mexican Air Force, the turaleza relacionadas con la Fuerza Government of the United Mexi- Aérea Mexicana , lo hará saber así can States will give three months ' al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos advance notice to the Govern- de América con tres meses de ment of the United States of anticipación y, en caso de que no America to that effect, and, in se llegara a un acuerdo mutuo case mutual agreement is not entre los dos Gobiernos acerca de

2590

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

reached between the two Govern- la contratación proyectada, el de ments with regard to such con- los Estados Unidos de América tract, the Government of the podrá dar por terminado este United States of America may Acuerdo tan sólo con que lo noticonsider this Agreement termi- fique al de los Estados Unidos nated with merely a notification Mexicanos . to that effect to the Government of the United Mexican States.

Article 20

Artículo 20

meSnetcrecy require- . Each Liaison Officer shall agree Cada Oficial de Enlace se comnot to divulge or in any way dis- promete a no divulgar ni a revelar, close to any foreign government por ningún medio, a gobierno or to any person whatsoever any extranjero alguno, o a persona secret or confidential matter of alguna, ningún secreto ni asunto which he may become cognizant in confidencial que pueda llegar a su his capacity as a Liaison Officer. conocimiento en su calidad de This requirement shall continue Oficial de Enlace. Este requisito in force after his termination of continuará en vigor después de service as Liaison Officer and after terminar sus servicios como Oficial

the expiration or cancellation of de Enlace y después de la expira-

this Agreement or any extension ción o cancelación del presente

thereof .

Acuerdo o de su prorrogación.

"Family." Annual leave.

Article 21

Artículo 21

Throughout this Agreement the En este Acuerdo se entenderá

term "family" is limited to mean que el término " familia" sólo com-

wife and dependent children.

prende a la esposa y a los hijos no

emancipados.

Article 22

Artículo 22

Each Liaison Officer shall be Cada Oficial de Enlace tendrá entitled to one month's annual derecho anualmente a un mes de leave with pay, or to a propor- licencia con sueldo , o a una parte tional part thereof with pay for proporcional de dicha licencia con any fractional part of a year. sueldo por cada fracción de un Unused portions of said leave shall año. La parte de dicha licencia be cumulative from year to year que no se use podrá acumularse de during service as Liaison Officer. año en año mientras duren sus
servicios como Oficial de Enlace.

Article 23

Artículo 23

The leave specified in the pre- La licencia que se estipula en el ceding Article may be spent in the Artículo precedente podrá disfruUnited Mexican States , in the tarse en los Estados Unidos MexiUnited States of America, or in canos, en los Estados Unidos de other countries, but the expense América , o en otros países , pero of travel and transportation not los gastos de viaje y transporte otherwise provided for in this que no se provean de otro modo en Agreement shall be borne by the este Acuerdo serán sufragados por

63 STAT. ] MEXICO- AIR FORCE LIAISON OFFICERS JULY 5, 1949

2591

Liaison Officer taking such leave. el Oficial de Enlace que tome la All travel time shall count as licencia. Todo el tiempo con-

leave and shall not be in addition sumido en viajar se contará como to the time authorized in Article parte de la licencia y no se añadirá

22. In all cases the said leave, or al tiempo que se autoriza en el

portions thereof, shall be taken Artículo 22. En todos los casos

by the Liaison Officers only after los Oficiales de Enlace podrán consultation with the Secretary tomar la licencia aludida, o partes of National Defense of the United de ella, únicamente después de

Mexican States with a view to consultar con el Secretario de la

ascertaining the mutual conven- Defensa Nacional de los Estados ience of the Government of the Unidos Mexicanos en atención a la

United Mexican States and the mutua conveniencia del Gobierno

Liaison Officers in respect to the de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos

said leave.

y de los Oficiales de Enlace res-

pecto a dicha licencia.

Article 24

Artículo 24

Liaison Officers who may be re-

Los Oficiales de Enlace que se Termination of service; replacement.

placed shall terminate their serv- reemplacen terminarán sus servi-

ices only upon the arrival of their cios solamente cuando lleguen sus

replacements , except when other- reemplazos, excepto cuando los

wise mutually agreed upon in ad- dos Gobiernos acuerden de ante-

vance by the respective Govern- mano lo contrario. ments .

Article 25

Artículo 25

The Government of the United El Gobierno de los Estados

Mexican States shall provide for Unidos Mexicanos proporcionará

the Liaison Officers and their fam- at ención médica gratis a los Ofi-

ilies free medical attention.

ciales de Enlace y a sus familias.

Medical attention.

Article 26

Artículo 26

Any Liaison Officer who is un- El Oficial de Enlace que no

able to perform his duties by pueda desempeñar sus funciones a

reason of long-continued physical causa de prolongada incapacidad

disability shall be replaced .

física será reemplazado .

Replacement in case ofdisability.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the un- EN TESTIMONIO DE LO CUAL,

dersigned, Dean Acheson, Secre- los infrascritos, Dean Acheson , tary of State of the United States Secretario de Estado de los Estaof America, and Major General dos Unidos de América, y el Robert L. Walsh, Senior United Mayor General Robert L. Walsh, States Air Force Member, United Miembro Principal de la Fuerza States Section, Joint Mexican- Aérea de los Estados Unidos , United States Defense Commis- Sección de los Estados Unidos , sion ; and Rafael de la Colina, Comisión Mixta de Defensa de

Ambassador Extraordinary and México y los Estados Unidos ; y

Plenipotentiary of the United Mexican States to the United States of America , and Lieutenant
81939-52---PT. III-- 19

Rafael de la Colina, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos

2592

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

General Leobardo C. Ruiz, Chief, en los Estados Unidos de América,

Mexican Section, Joint Mexican- y el Teniente General Leobardo C.

United States Defense Commis- Ruiz, Jefe de la Sección Mexicana

sion, duly authorized thereto , have de la Comisión Mixta de Defensa

signed this Agreement in dupli- de México y los Estados Unidos ,

cate, in the English and Spanish debidamente autorizados, firman

languages, at Washington, this el presente Acuerdo en duplicado ,

fifth day of July, one thousand en los idiomas inglés y español , en

nine hundred and forty-nine.

Washington, el cinco de julio de

mil novecientos cuarenta y nueve.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POR EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA:
DEAN ACHESON ROBERT L. WALSH

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES: POR EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS :
RAFAEL DE LA COLINA L. C. RUIZ

63 STAT.]

PHILIPPINES-MEDICAL CARE- June 7, 1949 Aug. 5, 1949

2593

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting hospitals and medical care for Philippine veterans, under Public Law 865, 80th Congress . Signed at Manila June 7, 1949; entered into force June 7, 1949. And exchange of memoranda dated at Manila June 7 and August 5, 1949.

June 7 and August 5, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1949]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES ON THE CONSTRUC-
TION AND EQUIPPING OF HOSPITALS FOR VETERANS AND THE PROVISION OF MEDICAL CARE AND TREATMENT OF VETERANS BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES, AND THE FURNISHING OF GRANTS- IN-AID THEREOF BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 1210. WHEREAS, the Congress of the United States by Public Law 865, 50 U.S. C., Supp.II, Eightieth Congress , approved July 1 , 1948, has provided for assistance app . $ 1991-1996. by grants-in-aid to the Republic of the Philippines in providing medical care and treatment for certain veterans, as defined below ; and WHEREAS, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines is desirous of taking advantage of the provisions thereof for the purpose of expanding and improving the program of medical care and hospitalization of those disabled veterans who come within the purview of Public Law 865, Eightieth Congress ; The Governments of the United States and the Republic of the Philippines have decided to conclude an agreement for the above purposes, the provisions of which the Government of the United States will incorporate in the regulations to be promulgated pursuant to the provisions of the said Public Law, and do hereby agree as follows:
TITLE I
PURPOSE AND DURATION
ARTICLE 1. Subject to mutual agreement, the necessary Appropriation Acts of the United States Congress, and such rules and regulations as, from time to time, may be prescribed by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs, to whom the President of the United States has delegated the authority conferred upon him by the aforesaid Act, the Government of the United States will furnish aid in the form of grants to the Republic of the Philippines in amounts as prescribed by said Act, as follows :

2594

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

(a ) For the construction and equipping of hospitals in the Philip-

pines to be used exclusively for medical care and treatment of veterans for service-connected disabilities, in a total amount of not to exceed

$22,500,000.00.

(b) To reimburse the Republic of the Philippines for moneys expended for the hospitalization of such veterans either in the hospitals

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 1210. 50 U.S. C., Supp. II, app. §§ 1991-1996.

so constructed and equipped, or any other hospitals in the Philippines, as provided in the aforesaid Act, for a period of not to exceed five years, in a total amount of not to exceed $3,285,000.00 for any fiscal year (July 1 through June 30) .
ARTICLE 2. Grants for the construction and equipping of a hospital

may be made prior to or following completion of such hospital, subject to the rules and regulations prescribed by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs, and subject to conditions on the receipt of financial aid necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act, which may be imposed by him.

TITLE II

DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY

ARTICLE 3. The Secretary of National Defense of the Philippine Government, under the general direction of the President of the Republic of the Philippines, shall have full authority to administer, for the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, all matters relating to the construction and equipping of hospitals for veterans and the provision of medical care and treatment for veterans, within the purview of Public Law 865 , 80th United States Congress.

TITLE III

DEFINITIONS

"Veterans."

ARTICLE 4. The term " veterans" is agreed to mean persons who

have been determined by the Veterans' Administration to have served

in the organized military forces of the Government of the Common-

wealth of the Philippines while such forces were in the service of the

armed forces of the United States pursuant to the military order of the President of the United States, dated July 26 , 1941 , including, among

such military forces, organized guerrilla forces under commanders appointed, designated , or subsequently recognized by the Commander-

in-Chief, Southwest Pacific Area, or other competent authority in the

"Service-"connected disabilities . '

Army of the United States, and who were discharged or released from such service under conditions other than dishonorable.
ARTICLE 5. The term " service-connected disabilities" is agreed to

mean any disability, which has been determined by the Veterans'

Administration to have resulted from personal injury suffered or disease contracted in service as defined in Article 4 hereof, or any

aggravation of a disability existing prior to the service as defined, when such aggravation is determined by the Veterans' Administration to have been suffered or contracted in service as defined in Article 4, above.

63 STAT. ]

June 7, 1949 PHILIPPINES-MEDICAL CARE- Aug. 5, 1949
TITLE IV

2595

GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPPING OF HOSPITALS

Building sites. ARTICLE 6. The Government of the Republic of the Philippines

agree to furnish an adequate building site for each hospital to be constructed under the terms of this agreement, at no expense to the

government of the United States.
Reimbursement by ARTICLE 7. Amounts necessarily expended for technical services re- U.S. grants.

quired and obtained for preparation of plans and specifications, super-

vision of construction, and for overhead expenses incident to these

functions will be reimbursed in the form of grants made by the

Government of the United States, if specifically approved by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs of the United States. In no

event will the total of such amounts exceed 5 % of the total construction cost.
ARTICLE 8. The Government of the United States, through such qualified persons as the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs shall des-

Inspection and approval of building
sites.

ignate, shall inspect and approve each building site before construction of a hospital thereon is commenced.
ARTICLE 9. The Government of the United States, through such qualified persons as the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs shall des-

ignate, shall have the right to inspect buildings being constructed under this agreement, at all stages of construction ; to inspect and audit all accounts necessary and incident to such construction ; and

to approve the procedure for letting of contracts both for hospital construction and the purchase of equipment.
ARTICLE 10. As a basis for determining the amount of funds to be granted for the program embraced by this agreement, there shall be

Detailed description and information re-
gpairtadlisn.g proposed hos-

transmitted to the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs by the Secre-

tary of National Defense of the Philippine Government as early as

may be following the entrance into force of this agreement, an item-

ized, detailed description of a hospital , or hospitals, upon which con-

struction is expected and intended to be commenced, together with

an accurate, detailed plat or map showing the prospective location

thereof; an estimate of the time expected to be required for building

and equipping, information detailing the size of each hospital , its general plan and conformation and the type of materials intended to be used therein, and an estimate of the costs of construction , materials, and equipment.

ARTICLE 11. Following the concurrence by the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs in such preliminary plans, full- scale plans, blueprints and specifications for all of the buildings and equipment embraced in such data , together with proposed contract forms and forms of bids to be employed , shall be prepared by the Secretary of National Defense of the Philippine Government and transmitted for the concurrence of the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs. If concurred in, the Administrator of Veterans ' Affairs shall make to the Government

of the Philippines such installment-grants as the efficient progress of the construction program and the need for such equipment may, in his judgment, warrant.

2596

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Unobligated funds.
6520 SUt.aSt.. ,CP.t,.S1u, pp.p12. 1I0I,. app. §§ 1991-1996.

ARTICLE 12. Any sums appropriated for the construction and equipping of hospitals under Public Law 865 , 80th United States Congress, remaining unobligated at the end of any fiscal year shall be permitted to be carried over to the ensuing fiscal year.

TITLE V

GRANTS FOR EXPENSES INCIDENT TO HOSPITALIZATION OF VETERANS

Interim hospitaliza-

tion of veterans.

ARTICLE 13. In the interim period required for the construction of

hospitals under this agreement, veterans requiring treatment of

service-connected disabilities may be hospitalized, upon a reimburse-

ment basis, within the terms of Public Law 865 , 80th United States

Congress, in such existing hospitals in the Philippines, as the Secre-

tary of National Defense of the Philippine Government may direct.

ARTICLE 14. The question of whether to hospitalize veterans, requir-

ing treatment for service-connected disabilities, prior to an official

determination of their status and eligibility having been made by the

Veterans' Administration, or whether to require such determination

of status and eligibility to be made prior to hospitalizing them, will

be wholly within the discretion of the Secretary of National Defense

of the Philippine Government, depending upon such contingencies and

exigencies as the Secretary of National Defense of the Philippine

Government may deem it appropriate to consider.

ARTICLE 15. The Government of the Republic of the Philippines

agrees that upon the receipt of any application for hospitalization

6520 USt.aSt.. C,P.t, .S1u, pp.p1.2I1I0., under the terms of Public Law 865, 80th United States Congress, the

app. §§ 1991-1996.

Veterans' Administration shall be furnished a copy thereof, together

with such information relating to the applicant's military service as may be currently available and full medical information of the disa-

bilities existing for which treatment is needed, and the Veterans' Administration shall thereupon make due and diligent effort to determine, without delay the status and eligibility of such applicant for such hospitalization under the Act, furnishing to the Secretary of National Defense of the Philippine Government, or such other officer as he may designate, an official notification of the determination

which has been made respecting such applicant's eligibility for such

Itemized bills to Veterans' Administration .

hospitalization. ARTICLE 16. In all cases in which it has been officially determined
by the Veterans ' Administration that the applicants are eligible for

and are receiving, or subsequent to July 1 , 1949, have received hos-

pitalization for service-connected disabilities upon the authority of the

Secretary of National Defense of the Philippine Government or other

officers duly designated by him for this purpose , itemized bills cover-

Printed forms for
applications, reports, etc.

ing the cost of such hospitalization will be furnished to the Veterans' Administration for consideration and award of payment.
ARTICLE 17. The Secretary of National Defense of the Philippine Government will, with the concurrence of the Administrator of Vet-

erans' Affairs, cause such printed forms of applications for hospitalization, forms of physical examination reports, forms for billing for services rendered and such other forms and notices as may be neces-

63 STAT. ]

June 7, 1949
PHILIPPINES-MEDICAL CAREAug. 5, 1949

2597

sary and incident to the efficient execution of this program, to be

prepared, and such approved forms will be used wherever applicable in the general operation of such program.
ARTICLE 18. The Republic of the Philippines will be reimbursed for moneys expended for hospitalization of eligible veterans at such rates

Reimbursement of Republic of the Phil
izpaptiinoens. for hospitali

as are established by the Secretary of National Defense of the Philip-

pine Government with the concurrence of the Administrator of Vet-

erans ' Affairs . It is understood that such rates may vary from time

to time or from place to place, but only following agreement on such

changes by the Secretary of National Defense of the Philippine Government and the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs.

ARTICLE 19. The Secretary of National Defense of the Philippine

Government shall furnish to the Administrator of Veterans ' Affairs ,

upon his request, or the request of any officer duly designated by him

for such purpose, full and complete cost- accounting information,

copies of medical examination and treatment reports and any other information deemed by him to be necessary and incident to the proper

application of the terms of this agreement. ARTICLE 20. The Government of the United States through such
qualified persons as the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs may desig-

U.S. inspection rights.

nate, shall have the right to inspect any hospital in which veterans are being hospitalized under the terms of this agreement ; to inspect and audit its books and all accounts as an incident to the proper de-

termination of cost of and reimbursement for such hospitalization ;

and to determine whether the hospital facilities, procedures, tech-

niques, hygiene and standards, as well as the quality of subsistence

furnished, are adequate and proportionate to the charges being made therefor.
ARTICLE 21. Appropriations for medical care and treatment for veterans under Public Law 865, 80th United States Congress, will, if unobligated at the end of the fiscal year, revert to the United States Treasury.
ARTICLE 22. No hospital constructed under the terms of Public Law 865 , 80th United States Congress, or any part or equipment

Unobligated appropriations.
62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 1210. C., Supp. II,
app. 55 1991-1996.
Disposition of hospitals.
Post, p. 2601.

thereof, shall be alienated, transferred , sold or assigned, and in the

event any such hospital, part or equipment thereof shall no longer

be desirable for use in the program of hospitalization embraced by this agreement, the disposition thereof shall be determined by mutual consent of the two Governments.
ARTICLE 23. It is agreed between the two Governments that if the

Consultations.

conditions and terms of the agreement are not being met, the Secre-

tary of National Defense of the Philippine Government and the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs or his designee shall enter into

immediate consultation with a view to compliance with said terms

and conditions. The initiation of such consultations by either Gov-

ernment shall not limit or qualify the duty and obligation of the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs to withhold or suspend payments

when in his judgment such payments would not be in accordance with the terms of this agreement.

2598

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Effective date for program .

ARTICLE 24. It is agreed by the two Governments that the program

of medical care and treatment of veterans under Public Law 865 ,

6520SUt.atS..,CP.t,. S1u, pp.p12. 1I0I., app. 1991-1996.
Entry into force; duration.

80th United States Congress, may be effective from July 1, 1949, or such subsequent date as may be agreed upon by the two Governments.
ARTICLE 25. This agreement shall come into force upon the date of its signature and remain in force until amended or terminated by

subsequent agreement. Such amendment or revocation may be ac-

Damage suits or civil action.

complished by an exchange of notes between the two Governments. ARTICLE 26. The Government of the Republic of the Philippines
shall save harmless all officers and employees of the U. S. Veterans

Administration from damage suits or other civil actions arising out

of the performance of their duties under this agreement.
Freedom of movement for U.S. person- ARTICLE 27. Officers, employees, and agents of the Government of
nel. the United States of America who are citizens of the United States

and who are on duty or who may be assigned to duty in the Republic of the Philippines under the provisions of the present Agreement, and their families, shall be permitted to move freely into and out of

Gratis transit.

the Republic of the Philippines, subject to existing visa and passport regulations. Gratis transit shall be extended to all such officers, em-

ployees or agents of the U. S. Veterans Administration over all

bridges, ferries, roads, and other facilities of the highways where tolls

are collected for passage of vehicles or occupants in the performance

of their official duties.

Tax-free property and funds.

ARTICLE 28. No import, excise, consumption, or other tax, duty, im-

post fee, charge or exaction shall be imposed or collected by the

Republic of the Philippines on funds or property in the Republic of

the Philippines which are for use for purposes, under this agreement,

or on any funds or property imported into the Republic of the

Philippines for use in connection with such purposes. No tax, duty,

impost fee, charge or exaction shall be imposed or collected by the

Republic of the Philippines on personal funds or movable property,

not intended for resale, owned by U. S. Veterans Administration per-

sonnel under the program covered by this agreement, who are citizens

of the United States, nor shall any tax, duty, impost fee, charge or

exaction be imposed or collected by the Republic of the Philippines

on the official emoluments paid to the U. S. Veterans Administration

personnel, under the program covered by this agreement, who are citizens of the United States, nor shall any tax, duty, impost fee,

charge or exaction be imposed or collected by the Republic of the Philippines on personal funds or property, not intended for resale, imported into the Republic of the Philippines for the use of, or consumption by, U. S. Veterans Administration personnel under the program covered by this agreement , who are U. S. citizens, nor shall any export or other tax, fee, charge or exaction be imposed or collected by

the Republic of the Philippines on any of the foregoing funds or property mentioned in this Article in the event of their removal

from the Republic of the Philippines.

63 STAT. ]

June 7, 1949 PHILIPPINES-MEDICAL CARE- Aug. 5, 1949

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Agreement in duplicate, in the City of Manila, this 7th day of June, 1949.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : MYRON M COWEN

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES : ELPIDIO QUIRINO

2599

81939-52- PT. III- -20

2600

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

The Philippine Government to the United States Government

MEMORANDUM

Ante, p. 2597.

Understanding Between the Negotiators with Reference to Article 22 of the Agreement Between the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Government of the United States of America on the Construction and Equipping of Hospitals of Veterans and the Provision of Medical Care
and Treatment of Veterans by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Furnishing of Grants-InAid thereof by the Government of the United States of America, signed on June 7, 1949.

With regard to Article 22 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Government of the United States of America on the Construction and Equipping of Hospitals of Veterans and the Provision of Medical Care and Treatment of Veterans by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Furnishing of Grants-In-Aid thereof by the Government of the United States of America, which was signed on June 7, 1949 , the following statement has been agreed upon between the negotiators :

"With reference to Article 22 of the Agreement, it is understood between the negotiators that the ownership of the hospitals constructed under the terms of this Agreement, or of any part or equip-
ment thereof, vests in the Government of the Philippines, and that
what is left for determination by mutual consent of the two Governments is the use to which said hospitals, or any part or equipment
thereof shall be devoted, as defined in Public Law 865-80th 62Stat., Pt. 1, p. 1210. Congress. " 50 U. S. C., Supp. II, app. §§ 1991-1996.
MANILA, June 7, 1949.

Ante, p. 2593.

The United States Government to the Philippine Government
MEMORANDUM
Negotiations regarding the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines on the Construction and Equipping of Hospitals of Veterans and the Provision of Medical Care and Treatment of Veterans by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Furnishing of Grants-in-Aid thereof by

63 STAT. ]

June 7, 1949 PHILIPPINES MEDICAL CARE- Aug. 5 , 1949

2601

the Government of the United States of America, signed on June 7, 1949 ; Understanding Between Negotiators regarding Article 22 .

With reference to the negotiations conducted between the representatives of the Philippine Government and the representatives of the Government of the United States for the purpose of reaching an Agreement on the Construction and Equipping of Hospitals of Veterans and the Provision of Medical Care and Treatment of Veterans by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Furnishing of Grants-in -Aid thereof by the Government of the United States of America , it is agreed between the negotiators of the two Governments that the following statement be made setting forth their understanding of the meaning and intent of Article 22 of the aforementioned Agreement :

Ante, p. 2597.

"With reference to Article 22 of the Agreement, it is understood between the negotiators that the ownership of the hospitals constructed under the terms of this Agreement, or of any part or

equipment thereof, vests in the Government of the Philippines, and that what is left for determination by mutual consent of the two Governments is the use to which said hospitals, or any part or equip-

ment thereof shall be devoted, as defined in Public Law 865-80th Congress. "

MANILA,

THL

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 1210. 50 U. S. C., Supp. II, app. §§ 1991-1996.

August 5, 1949.

2602

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

January 14, 1949 (T. I. A. 8. 1950]

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting the settlement of United States obligations to former Italian prisoners of war and related claims , supplementing the agreement of February 14, 1948. Signed at Rome January 14, 1949; entered into force January 14, 1949.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF ITALY REGARDING SETTLEMENT OF UNITED STATES OBLIGATIONS TO FORMER ITALIAN PRISONERS OF WAR AND RELATED CLAIM.

In implementation of the relevant provisions of the "Memorandum

of Understanding between the Government of the United States of

61 Stat ., Pt . 4 , p. 3962.
47 Stat. 2021.

America and the Government pf Italy regarding settlement of certain wartime claims and related matters" signed on August 14, 1947,
and in conformity with the terms of the Convention on Prisoners of War, signed at Geneva on July 27, 1929, and in order to obviate the necessity of protracted negotiations for the settlement of other

related obligations, the Government of the United States of America

and the Government of Italy have reached agreement as set forth

below providing for the final settlement of certain outstanding obli-

gations owing to, and certain wartime claims of, former Italian prisoners of war and surrendered Italian personnel who own valid evi-

dences of obligations made out by the Government of the United

States of America or its agencies, or claims arising from their former status as prisoners of war or personnel in custody of the Government

of the United States of America and its agencies, as well as other

claims on the part of such individuals and of residents of Italy. This

Agreement supplements the Agreement set forth in an exchange of

letters dated February 14, 1948 between the Minister of the

Treasury of the Government of Italy and the United States Treasury

p.632853S.tat . , Pt . 3, Representative in Rome, establishing the procedure to be followed with respect to the processing of evidences of obligations and claims

of the types with which the present Agreement is concerned. A

public announcement setting forth this procedure was made by the

Government of Italy on February 18, 1948, and, on the basis of such

procedure, a partial payment of $4,382,241.03 was made on April 2, 1948, in respect of evidences of obligations therefore verified by the Government of the United States of America.

Article I

Obligations and

claims.

The obligations and claims with which this Agreement is concerned

include :

(a) Amounts earned by Italian nationals as prisoners of war, surrendered enemy personnel, or civilian internees which have been

63 STAT. ] ITALY-PRISONERS OF WAR CLAIMS-JAN. 14, 1949

2603

officially recognized in the form of Certificates of Credit Balances and Military Payment Orders denominated in dollars and which have been issued to such Italian nationals as receipts for the amounts earned.
(b) Amounts earned by Italian nationals as prisoners of war, surrendered enemy personnel or civilian internees while in the custody of the United States Government and its agencies to whom Military Payment Orders or Certificates of Credit Balances were not issued and who after repatriation were not reimbursed for such amounts either directly by American Autorities or by Italian banks for U. S. Government account.
(c) Personal property, including currencies, entrusted to representatives of the Government of the United States of America and its
agencies by Italian nationals referred to in the foregoing numbered paragraphs (a ) and (b) , or by other persons who are residents of Italy, which was not restored to the rightful owners or otherwise accounted for.
Article II Claims for earnings
With respect to verified evidences of obligations and verified claims of Italian nationals. described in paragraphs 1 ( a ) and 1 ( b ) of this Agreement and to such evidences of obligations and such claims which have not been verified by the Government of the United States of America, the Government of the United States of America will, within ten days after the signing of this Agreement, pay to the Italian Government the sum of $22,000,000, which, together with the payment of $4,382,241.03 made on April 2, 1948, and the payments made prior to such date by the Government of the United States of America directly to individual holders of evidences of obligations, will constitute complete discharge of the Government of the United States of Americq for all evidences of obligations and all claims of the types described in paragraphs 1 ( a ) and 1 (b) of this Agreement.
Article III
With respect to claims for personal property referred to in para- Claims for personal property .
graph 1 (c ) of this Agreement, entrusted to representatives of the Government of the United States of America and its agencies by Italian nationals and residents who are in the categories described in paragraphs 1 ( a ) , 1 ( b ) , and 1 ( c ) of this Agreement, the Government of the United States of Americq will transfer to the Government of Italy all currencies taken from former prisoners of war, surrendered enemy personnel, civilian internees, or residents of Italy, whether or not nationalis of Italy, now held by the United States Army, Chief, Italian Prisoner of War Division, Italy, or no deposit in two accounts with the Bank of Italy in the name of the "Chief, IPW Division, Italy", and in consideration thereof, the Government of Italy will assume and discharge the obligation of the Government of the United States of America to such persons and save the Government of the United States of America harmless with respect to any liability
arising from such claims. The Government of Italy will undertake

2604

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

to investigate and determine all questions relating to such claims and to adjust and settle all authentic claims by payment. A list of the various currencies to be transferred in this connection is contained in the Annex to this Agreement.

Article IV

Italian discharge of all claims against U. S.

The Government of Italy agrees that the foregoing settlements re-

garding obligations and claims described in paragraphs 1 ( a ) , 1 (b) ,

and 1 (c) of this Agreement fully and completely discharge any and all obligations and claims against the Government of the United

States of America by or on behalf of the Italian nationals ( or persons

claiming under them) formerly in the custody of the Government of

the United States of America and its agencies who may have evi-

dences of obligations or may have claims of the types described in paragraphs 1 (a ) , 1 (b) , and 1 ( c ) of this Agreement. The Govern-

ment of Italy will save the Government of the United States of

America harmless from any liability arising as a result of such claims.

Article V

Expedition of settle- The Government of Italy undertakes to expedite in every way posment of claim's by

Italy.

sible the investigation, determination and settlement of all claims

which form the subject of this Agreement. To this end, the Govern-

ment of the United States agrees to turn over to the Government of Italy all documents in its possession relating to claims under para 1 ( c)

above and will aid the Government of Italy in the determination of the validity of claims under para 1 ( a ) and 1 ( b ) above. The Italian Government on its part agrees to turn over to the Government of

the United States all military payment orders and certificates of credit balances as well as evidences of obligations under para 1 ( c)

above surrendered by claimants.

Article VI
Done at Rome in duplicate, in the English and Italian languages, both of which shall have equal validity, this 14th day of January 1949.

For the Government of the United States of America
JAMES CLEMENT DUNN

For the Government of Italy
SFORZA GIUSEPPE PELLA

63 STAT. ] ITALY-PRISONERS OF WAR CLAIMS- JAN. 14, 1949

On Deposit in Banca d'Italia:
Country
Albania Algeria Austria Belgium Bulgaria Czechslovakia
Denmark East Africa Finland France Germany
66
Greece Gibraltar Holland Hungary Jugoslavia
""
Malta Norway Poland Portugal Rumania Russia
46
Spain South Africa Sweden Switzerland
"6 ""
Turkey Tunisia USA United Kingdom Austro-Hungarian Empire Czechoslovakia Boenne- M Jugoslavia Moroco Monoco Russia Czarist Ukraine Italy On Deposit in IPW Division :
Italy Germany Algeria

ANNEX
Currency Francs Francs Schillings Francs Levas Slov. Korone Cz/Sl . Korone Kroner Pounds Marks Francs RM (Coins) RM (Currency notes) Drachma Pound Florins Pengos (Est) Dinar Occ. Lire (Est .) Pound Kroner Zloti Escudos Leii Rubles Rubles Pesetas Pounds Kronor Francs (Currency)
66 (Gold Coin)
" (Draft) Lira Francs Dollars Pounds Korone Korone Kunas Francs Rubles Karbs Lire
Lire RM Francs

Amount
1, 602. 60 7, 145
223 21 , 050. 35
140 1, 390
143. 30 350.46
25 720 1,288, 885 187, 244. 22 69, 945 241 , 322, 048
1 1, 799. 01
926. 94 14, 801
7, 111 10
1, 175, 01 6, 745. 10
500 6, 798 2, 636
280 15, 215
5 20 7,950 960 150 30 2. 150 .3, 69 100. 10. 0 1.000
9.018 63.955 2
5. 546 1. 578 224, 737, 983
768, 391.00 12, 979. 00 35.00

2605

2606

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

ACCORDO FRA IL GOVERNO DEGLI STATI UNITI ED IL GOVERNO ITALIANO CIRCA IL REGOLAMENTO DI OBBLIGHI DEGLI STATI UNITI NEI RIGUARDI DI EX-PRIGIONIERI DI GUERRA ITALIANI E CONNESSI " CLAIMS " .
In applicazione delle disposizioni in materia contenute nel " Memorandum d'intesa fra il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America ed il Governo italiano concernente il regolamento di taluni " claims" derivanti dallo stato di guerra e delle questioni connesse," firmato il 14 agosto 1947 , in conformità dei termini della Convenzione sui prigionieri di guerra , fir mata a Ginevra il 27 luglio 1929, al fine di ovviare alla ne cessità di trattative prolungate per il regolamento di altri obblighi connessi , il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America ed 11 Governo Italiano hanno raggiunto il seguente accordo per il regolamento definitivo di taluni obblighi esistenti a fa_ vore di , e di taluni "claims" nascenti dallo stato di guerra avanzati da, ex prigionieri di guerra italiani e da per song le italiano ad essi assimilato , proprietari di validi docu_ menti d'impegno rilasciati dal Governo degli Stati Uniti d'Ame rica o da chi per esso , oppure di " claims" derivanti dalla loro previa condizione di prigionieri di guerra o di personale detenuto dal Governo degli Stati Uniti o da chi per esso come pure di altri " claims " delle persone suddette e di persone re sidenti in Italia.
Il presente Accordo integra l'Accordo stipulato con scam bio di lettere in data 18 febbraio 1948 fra il Ministro del
Tesoro Italiano ed il Rappresentante del Tesoro degli U.S. a Roma in ordine alla procedura da seguirsi per lo spoglio del suaccennati documenti di impegno e dei vari tipi di " claims" contemplati nel presente Accordo .

63 STAT. ] ITALY- PRISONERS OF WAR CLAIMS- JAN. 14, 1949

2607

Un comunicato circa la procedura concordata era stato emanato dal Governo Italiano il 18 febbraio 1948 e, sulla ba se di tale procedura, un pagamento parziale di dollari 4.382.241.03 venne effettuato il 2 aprile 1948 per gli impegni fino allora accertati dal 'Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America.
Articola 1
Gli impegni contemplati dal presente Accordo inclu dono : a) - somne guadagnate da cittadini italiani nella loro qua lità di prigionieri di guerra o di personale assimilato o di internati civili , le quali siano state ufficialmente riconosciute sotto forma di certificati di credito wan dati di pagamento militari stilati in dollari e rilasciati af predetti cittadini italiani a titolo di ricevuta di tali somme.
b) - somme guadagnate da cittadini italiani nella loro qua lità di prigionieri di guerra, o di personale assimilato o di internati civili durante il loro periodo di detenzio ne da parte del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America o chi per esso , ai quali non furono rilasciati mandati di para mento militari o certificati di credito e che dopo il loro rimpatrio non furono rimborsati delle somme suddette nè direttamente dalle Autorità Americane nè da Banche Italia ne per conto del Governo degli Stati Uniti ( America .
c) - Oggetti di proprietà personale congrese le valute , consegnati ad organi del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'Ame rica o chi per esso dai cittadini italiani di cui ai pre

2608

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

cedenti paragrafi ( a) e ( b ) o da altre persone residenti in Italia, dei quali beni non sia stata effettuata la restitu zione ai legittimi proprietari o altrimenti rimborsato il controvalore.
Articolo 2
Per quanto riguarda gli impegni ed i " claims " verifi cati di cui ai paragrafi 1 ( a) e 1 ( b) del presente accor_ do , nonchè gli impegni ed i " claims " non verificati dal Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America , tale . Governo verserà al Governo Italiano, entro 10 giorni dalla firma del pre_ sente accordo , la somma di 22 milioni di dollari , la qua_ le , unitamente al pagamento parziale di dollari 4.382.241.03 effettuato il 2 aprile 1948 ed ai pagamenti effettuati prè cedentemente a tale data dal Governo degli Stati Uniti d'Ame rica direttamente a persone in possesso di impegni , costi tuirà completa liberazione del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America da tutti i tipi di impegni e di " claims " di cui ai paragrafi 1 ( A) e 1 ( B) del presente accordo .
Articolo 3
Per quanto riguarda i " clains " relativi agli oggetti di proprietà personale di cui al paragrafo 1 ( c) del pre_ sente Accordo , consegnati ad organi del Governo degli Sta ti Uniti d'America o chi per esso da cittadini italiani o da persone residenti in Italia rientranti nelle catego rie di cui ai paragrafi 1 ( a) , 1 ( b ) e 1 ( c ) del presente Accordo , il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America trasferi_ rà al Governo Italiano tutte le valute tolte ad ex- prigio nieri di guerra o personale assimilato od internati civili

63 STAT. ] ITALY- PRISONERS OF WAR CLAIMS - JAN. 14, 1949

2609

o a persone residenti in Italia , cittadini italiani o meno , ed ora detenute dal" Capo della divisione prigionieri di guerra italiani dell'esercito degli Stati Uniti, oppure depo sitate presso la Banca d'Italia in due conti intestati al " Capo della Divisione Prigionieri di Guerra Italiani " . In considerazione di quanto precede , il Governo Italiano si accolla ed adempirà gli obblighi del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America verso le persone suddette e terrà esente il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America da ogni responsabilità derivante dai sopracitati " claims " . Il Governo Italiano si impegna ad istruire ed accertare tutte le questioni con pesse con i suddetti " claims" e a soddisfare e liquidar tut ti i " claims" comprovati . Un elenco delle diverse valute da trasferire è contenuto nell'annesso del presente Accordo .
Articolo 4
Il Governo Italiano conviene che quanto sopra con cordato in merito agli impegni ed ai " clains " di cui ai pa ragrafi 1 ( A) 1 ( B ) 1 ( C ) del presente Accordo costituisce piena e completa liberazione del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America da ogni e qualunque impegno o " claims" da parte o per conto di cittadini italiani ( o loro aventi causa) già detenuti dal Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America o chi per esso , in possesso di impegni o di " clains" , dei tipi di cui a paragrafi 1 ( 4) 1 (B ) e 1 ( C ) del présente accor do. Il Governo Italiano terrà esente il Governo degli S.U. da ogni responsabilità derivante da suddetti " claims" .

2610

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Articolo 5
Il Governo Italiano si impegna a sollecitare in ogni possibile modo lo spoglio , l'accertamento e la liquidazione di tutti i " clains " formanti oggetto del presente accordo .  tal fine , il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America trasferirà al Governo Italiano tutti i documenti in suo possesso relati vi ai " claims" di cui al paragrafo 1 ( C) ed agevolerà il Go verno Italiano nell'accertamento della validità dei " claims" di cui ai paragrafi 1 ( A ) e 1 (B ) . Il Governo Italiano , per parte sua, trasferirà al Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America tutti i mandati di pagamento militari e certificati di credi= to e i documenti di impegno di cui al paragrafo 1 ( C) conse= gnati dagli interessati .
Articolo 6
Fatto a Roma in duplice esemplare, in lingua italia na ed inglese , ognuna delle quali farà ugualmente fede .

Addi 14 Gennaio 1949

Per il Governo Italiano

Per il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America

63 STAT. ] ITALY- PRISONERS OF WAR CLAIMS- JAN. 14, 1949

ANNESSO

Depositati presso la Banca d'Italia

Stati
Albania Algeria Austria Belgio Bulgaria Cecoslovacchia
"
Danimarca Africa Orientale Finlandia Francia Germania
Grecia Gibilterra Olanda Ungheria Jugoslavia
"
Malta Norvegia Polonia Portogal lo Rumania Russia
"
Spagna Sud Africa Svezia Svizzera
1
Turchia Tunisia USA Gran Bretagna Impero Austro-Ungarico Marocco Monoco Cecoslovacchia Boemia Jugoslavia Russia Zarista Ucraina Italia

Valuta

Ammontare

Franchi Franchi Scellini Franchi Leva Slov.Korone Cz/S1.Korone Kroner Sterline Marchi Franchi Hi. (Coins ) RM.(Currency notes ) Drachme Sterline Florins Pengos (Est . ) Dinar Occ.Lire (Est) Sterline Kroner zloti Escudos Leii Kubles

1,602.60 7,145
223 21,050.35
140
1,390 143.30 350.46 25 720
1,288,885 187,244.22 69,945
241,322,048 1
1,799.01 926.94
14,801 ·7,111

I, 175.01 6,745.IO
500 6,798 2,636
280

Pesetas

15,215

Sterline

.5

Kroner

20

Franchi (Currency)

11

(Gold Coin)

#

(Draft )

7,950 960 150

Lira Franchi

30 2,150

Dollari

3.69

Sterline

100.10.0

Korone

1.000

Franchi

2

Korone

9,018

Kunas Rubles Karbe Lire

63.955 5.546 I , 578
224,7 37,983

Depositati presso la Divisione IPY

Italia Germania Algeria

Lire RM Franchi

768,391.00 12,979.00 35.00

2611

2612

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

June 27, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1953]

Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden respecting quantitative import restrictions and deferment of payments , extending the agreement of June 24, 1947, as modified, after June 30, 1949. Effected by exchange of memorandums dated at Washington June 27, 1949; entered into force June 27, 1949.

The Swedish Embassy to the Department of State

EMBASSY OF SWEDEN WASHINGTON 8, D. C.

MEMORANDUM

The Government of Sweden wishes to refer to discussions which have been held between its representatives in Washington and representatives of the Government of the United States of America concerning the problems faced by the Government of Sweden as the result of the serious loss of its gold and dollar exchange. These discussions have resulted in a mutual understanding between the two Governments as follows :
1. Because of the large deficit in the Swedish balance of payments with the hard currency areas of the world, it is recognized that the Government of Sweden continues to be faced with the necessity of taking measures to correct its present imbalance of trade and to conserve its foreign exchange. The import restrictions imposed by the Government of Sweden on March 15 , 1947, as presently applied, are understood to serve these purposes.

2. It is therefore agreed that the provisions contained in the ex-

change of aide-memoire between the two Governments dated June 24,

p.631745S.tat. , Pt. 4, p.612840S;tPatt..,3, Ppt. 2.6427,.

1947, as modified by the exchange of memoranda dated February 11 , 1948 and June 12, 1948 shall continue to be applied after June 30, 1949, until the Government of Sweden becomes a contracting party to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade concluded at

61 Stat. , Pts. 5and 6. Geneva, Switzerland, on October 30, 1947 , or until June 30, 1950,

whichever is the earlier. The Government of Sweden is now engaged

in tariff negotiations in Annecy, France , looking toward its eventual

accession to that Agreement. If, however, Sweden has not adhered

to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade by May 1, 1950 , the two Governments agree to review the situation for the purpose of con-

sidering such actions as the circumstances may demand.

It is further agreed that either Government after consultation as

to the continued justification for this understanding may terminate it on sixty days written notice.

WASHINGTON, D. C.. June 27, 1949.

A. AFF.

63 STAT. ] SWEDEN- RECIPROCAL TRADE-JUNE 27, 1949

2613

The Department of State to the Swedish Embassy
MEMORANDUM
The Government of the United States of America wishes to refer Loss of gold and dollar exchange.
to discussions which have been held between its representatives and representatives of the Government of Sweden concerning the problems faced by the Government of Sweden as the result of its serious loss of gold and dollar exchange, and to the memorandum of today's date from the Embassy of Sweden setting forth the understanding reached in these discussions. The Government of the United States of America takes note of the fact that the Government of Sweden acknowledges the current validity of the 1947 and 1948 understandings between the two Governments. The Government of the United States of America confirms the understanding reached in recent discussions as set forth in the memorandum from the Embassy of Sweden.
W. L. T. DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, June 27, 1949.

63 STAT. ] DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JULY 19, 1949 2615

Agreement and accompanying exchange of notes between the United States of America and the Dominican Republic respecting air transport services. Signed at Ciudad Trujillo July 19, 1949; entered into force July 19, 1949.

July 19, 1949 IT. I. A. S. 1955]

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC .

2616

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Rights. Post, p. 2623.
Inauguration

AIR TRANSPORT AGREE . ACUERDO SOBRE TRANS-

MENT BETWEEN THE GOV- PORTE AEREO ENTRE EL

ERNMENT OF THE UNITED GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS

STATES OF AMERICA AND UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y EL

THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOBIERNO DE LA REPU-

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

BLICA DOMINICANA

Having in mind the resolution Teniendo en cuenta la resolu-

signed under date of December 7 , ción firmada en fecha 7 de diciem-

1944 , at the International Civil bre de 1944 en la Conferencia

Aviation Conference in Chicago, [ ] Internacional de Aviación Civil

for the adoption of a standard de Chicago para la adopción de

form of agreement for air routes una forma común de acuerdos

and services, and the desirability sobre rutas y servicios aéreos, y

of mutually stimulating and pro- teniendo en cuenta la conveniencia

moting the further development of de estimular y promover mutuaair transportation between the mente el desarrollo de la trans-

United States of America and the portación aérea entre los Estados

Dominican Republic , the two Gov- Unidos de América y la República

ernments parties to this arrange- Dominicana, los dos Gobiernos

ment agree that the establishment signatarios de este acuerdo con-

and development of air transport vienen en que el establecimiento y

services between their respective desarrollo de los servicios de trans-

territories shall be governed by portación aérea entre sus respec-

the following provisions :

tivos territorios estarán regidos por

las disposiciones siguientes :

ARTICLE 1

ARTICULO 1

Each contracting party grants Cada parte contratante otorga

to the other contracting party the a la otra los derechos especificados

rights as specified in the Annex en el Anexo de este acuerdo , los

hereto necessary for establishing cuales son necesarios para el esta-

the international civil air routes blecimiento de las rutas y servicios

and services therein described , aéreos , civiles e internacionales ,

whether such services be inaugu- descritos en aquél, sea que dichos

rated immediately or at a later servicios se inauguren de inmediato

date at the option of the contract- o en una fecha posterior, a opción

ing party to whom the rights are de la parte contratante a la cual se

granted .

otorguen los derechos.

ARTICLE 2

ARTICULO 2

a) Each of the air services so a) Cada uno de los servicios described shall be placed in opera- aéreos así descritos será puesto en tion as soon as the contracting funcionamiento tan pronto como

1 Department of State publication 2282.

63 STAT. ] DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- JULY 19, 1949 2617

party to whom the rights have la parte contratante a la cual , de been granted by Article 1 to desig- acuerdo con el Artículo 1 , se hayan nate an airline or airlines for the otorgado los derechos con el fin route concerned has authorized an de que designe una línea aérea o airline for such route, and con- líneas aéreas para la ruta de que

tracting party granting the rights se trate, haya autorizado una línea shall, subject to Article 6 hereof, aérea para que opere en dicha ruta. be bound to give the appropriate La parte contratante que otorgue.

operating permission to the airline los derechos estará, sin perjuicio

or airlines concerned ; provided de lo que se expresa en el artículo 6

that the airlines so designated may de este acuerdo , comprometida a

be required to qualify before the dar el correspondiente permiso de

competent aeronautical authori- funcionamiento a la línea aérea o ties of the contracting party grant- a las líneas aéreas interesadas, ing the rights under the laws and siempre que a las líneas aéreas así

regulations normally applied by designadas se les requiera , antes these autohorities before being per- de que se les permita comenzar las

mitted to engage in the operations operaciones contempladas en este contemplated by this agreement ; acuerdo, someterse a una calificaand provided that in areas of hos- ción ante las autoridades aerotilities or of military occupation, náuticas competentes de la parte

or in areas affected thereby, such contratante que otorgue los dere-

inauguration shall be subject to chos , calificación hecha de acuerdo

the approval of the competent con las leyes y reglamentos que

military authorities .

aplican normalmente estas autori-

dades, y siempre que en las áreas de hostilidades o de ocupación

militar, o en las áreas afectadas por éstas, esa inauguración esté

sujeta a la aprobación de las autoridades militares competentes .

ARTICLE 3 In order to prevent discrimina-

ARTICULO 3

Prevention of discriminatory practices,

A fin de prevenir prácticas dis- etc.

tory practices and to assure equal- criminatorias y de asegurar la

ity of treatment, both contracting igualdad de tratamiento, ambas

parties agree that:

partes contratantes acuerdan lo

siguiente :

Charges for use of facilities.

a) Each of the contracting par- a) Cada una de las partes con-

ties may impose or permit to be tratantes puede establecer, o per-

imposed just and reasonable charges mitir que se establezcan , graváfor the use of public airports and menes justos y razonables por el other facilities under its control . uso de los aeropuertos públicos y

Each of the contracting parties otras facilidades bajo su control.

agrees , however, that these charges Cada una de las partes contrashall not be higher than would be tantes conviene, sin embargo , que paid for the use of such airports estos gravámenes no serán más and facilities by its national air- altos que los que pagarían, por el

2618

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

craft engaged in similar inter- uso de dichos aeropuertos y facili-

national services .

dades, sus naves aéreas nacionales

que rindan servicios internacio-

nales similares.

Customs duties, etc.,
for fuel, lubricating oils, and spare parts.

b) Fuel, lubricating oils and b) Al combustible, a los aceites spare parts introduced into the lubricantes y a las piezas de territory of one contracting party repuesto introducidos en el terri-

by the other contracting party or torio de una parte contratante its nationals, and intended solely por la otra parte contratante o sus

for use by aircraft of the airlines nacionales , y destinados exclu-

of such contracting party shall, sivamente al uso de las naves with respect to the imposition of aéreas de las líneas aéreas de dicha

customs duties , inspection fees or parte contratante, se les acordará, other national duties or charges respecto de la imposición de dere-

by the contracting party whose chos de aduana , honorarios de

territory is entered , be accorded inspección u otros impuestos o

the same treatment as that apply- gravámenes nacionales por la parte ing to national airlines and to air- contrante en cuyo territorio vaya lines of the most-favored-nation . a entrarse , el mismo tratamiento

de que disfruten las líneas aéreas

nacionales y las líneas aéreas de la nación más favorecida .

Post, p. 2623.

c) The fuel, lubricating oils , c) El combustible, los aceites

spare parts , regular equipment lubricantes , las partes de repuesto , and aircraft stores retained on el equipo regular y los depósitos board civil aircraft of the airlines de efectos aéreos mantenidos a

of one contracting party author- bordo de las naves aéreas civiles

ized to operate the routes and de las líneas aéreas de una parte

services described in the Annex contratante que estén autorizadas

shall , upon arriving in or leaving a funcionar en las rutas y servicios

the territory of the other con- descritos en el Anexo , serán ex-

tracting party, be exempt from onerados , a la llegada al territorio

customs , inspection fees or similar de la otra parte contratante, o a

duties or charges , even though la salida, de derechos de aduana,

such supplies be used or con- honorarios de inspección o de-

sumed by such aircraft on flights rechos y gravámenes similares ,

in that territory.

aún cuando esos abastecimientos

sean usados o consumidos por dichas naves aéreas en vuelos

efectuados en aquel territorio.

ARTICLE 4

ARTICULO 4

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

Certificates of airworthiness , Los certificados de mérito aéreo,
certificates of competency and los certificados de competencia y licenses issued or rendered valid las licencias expedidos o validados by one contracting party and still por una parte contratante y los in force shall be recognized as cuales estén ttooddaavvííaa en vigor,

valid by the other contracting serán reconocidos como válidos

party for the purpose of operating por la otra parte contratante para the routes and services described los fines de funcionamiento en las

63 STAT. ] DOMINICAN REPUBLIC- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JULY 19, 1949 2619

in the Annex. Each contracting rutas y servicios descritos en el

party reserves the right , however, Anexo. Cada parte contratante

to refuse to recognize , for the pur- se reserva el derecho , sinembargo ,

pose of flight above its own terri- de negar el reconocimiento, para

tory, certificates of competency fines de vuelo sobre su propio

and licenses granted to its own territorio , de los certificados de

nationals by another State.

competencia y de las licencias

concedidos a sus propios nacionales

por otro Estado .

Post, p. 2623.

ARTICLE 5

ARTICULO 5

Laws and regula a) The laws and regulations of a ) Las leyes y reglamentos de tions.
one contracting party relating to una parte contratante relativos a

the admission to or departure la admisión en su territorio, o a

from its territory of aircraft en- la salida de éste, de las naves

gaged in international air navi- aéreas utilizadas en la navegación

gation, or to the operation and aérea internacional, o relativos

navigation of such aircraft while al funcionamiento y navegación

within its territory, shall be ap- de tales naves aéreas mientras se plied to the aircraft of the other encuentren dentro de su territorio,

contracting party, and shall be serán aplicados a las naves aéreas

complied with by such aircraft de la otra parte contratante , y upon entering or departing from serán cumplidos por dichas naves.

or while within the territory of the aéreas a la entrada o a la salida

first party.

del territorio de la primera parte,

o mientras estén dentro de él.

b) The laws and regulations of b) Las leyes y reglamentos de one contracting party as to the una parte contratante relativos admission to or departure from a la admisión en su territorio , o a its territory of passengers, crew, la salida de éste, de los pasajeros , or cargo of aircraft, such as regu- la tripulación, o la carta de las

lations relating to entry, clear- naves aéreas, tales como los regla-

ance, immigration, passports, cus- mentos de entrada, despacho

toms, and quarantine shall be aduanero, inmigración , pasaportes ,

complied with by or on behalf of derechos aduaneros y cuarentena ,

such passengers, crew or cargo of serán cumplidos, personalmente

the airlines designated by the o a nombre de ellos , por dichos

other contracting party upon en- pasajeros, tripulación o carga de

trance into or departure from, or las líneas aéreas designadas por la

while within the territory of the otra parte contratante, a la en-

first party .

trada o salida del territorio de la

primera parte, o mientras se

hallen dentro de él.

ARTICLE 6

ARTICULO 6

Each contracting party reserves

Cada parte contratante se reser-

Withholding or rev. ocation of certificate

the right to withhold or revoke a va el derecho de negar o revocar or permit.

certificate or permit of any airline un certificado o permiso de cualdesignated by the other contract- quier línea aérea designada por la ing party in the event it is not otra parte contratante, en caso de

2620

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Post, p. 2623.

satisfied that substantial owner- que no esté satisfecha de que la

ship and effective control of such verdadera propiedad y el control airline are vested in nationals of efectivo de dicha línea aérea re-

the other contracting party, or in caen en nacionales de la otra parte case of failure by the airline desig- contratante , o en caso de incumplinated by the other contracting miento, por la línea aérea designada

party to comply with the laws and por la otra parte contratante , de regulations of the contracting las leyes y reglamentos de la parte party over whose territory it oper- contratante sobre cuyo territorio ates as described in Article Five funciona en la forma descrita en el

hereof, or otherwise to fulfill the Artículo 5 de este acuerdo , o en

conditions under which the rights caso de que no reuna las condi-

are granted in accordance with ciones bajo las cuales se conceden

this agreement and its Annex.

los derechos , de acuerdo con el

presente convenio y su anexo.

ARTICLE 7

ARTICULO 7

Registration with

ICA.

This agreement and all con- Este acuerdo, y todos los contra-

tracts connected therewith shall tos relacionados con él , serán regis-

be registered with the Interna- trados en la Organización Inter-

tional Civil Aviation Organiza- nacional de Aviación Civil. tion.

ARTICLE 8

ARTICULO 8

Continuance of existing rights, etc.

Existing rights and privileges

Los derechos y privilegios ya

relating to air transport services existentes , relativos a los servicios

which may have been granted pre- de transporte aéreo, que hayan

viously by either of the contract- sido otorgados anteriormente por

ing parties to an airline of the alguna de las partes contratantes

other contracting party shall con- a una línea aérea de la otra parte

tinue in force according to their contratante, continuarán en vigor

terms .

de acuerdo con su tenor.

Termination.

ARTICLE 9

ARTICULO 9

Either of the contracting parties Cualquiera de las partes contramay at any time notify the other tantes puede notificar a la otra en of its intention to terminate the cualquier tiempo su intención de present agreement . Such a notice poner fin al presente acuerdo . shall be sent simultaneously to the Esa notificación será enviada siInternational Civil Aviation Organ- multáneamente a la Organización ization . In the event such com- Internacional de Aviación Civil .
munication is made, this agree- En caso de que se haga tal comument shall terminate six (6) nicación , este Acuerdo terminará months after the date of receipt 6 meses después de la fecha de of the notice to terminate, unless recibo de la notificación de cese, a by agreement between the con- menos que mediante acuerdo entre tracting parties the communica- las partes contratantes , la referida tion under reference is withdrawn comunicación sea retirada antes
before the expiration of that time. de la expiración de ese lapso . Si If the other contracting party fails la otra parte contratante deja de to acknowledge receipt, notice acusar recibo , se considerará como

63 STAT. ] DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -JULY 19, 1949 2621

shall be deemed as having been recibida la notificación 14 días

received 14 days after its receipt después de su recibo por parte de

by the International Civil Avia- la Organización Internacional de

tion Organization.

Aviación Civil.

ARTICLE 10 In the event either of the con-

ARTICULO 10
Modifications of En caso de que cualquiera de routes or conditions.

tracting parties considers it de- las partes contratantes considere sirable to modify the routes or conveniente modificar las rutas o conditions set forth in the attached condiciones descritas en el Anexo
Annex, it may request consulta- de este acuerdo , ella puede protion between the competent au- mover una consulta entre las

Post, p. 2623.

thorities of both contracting par- autoridades competentes de amties , such consultation to begin bas partes contratantes , debiendo within a period of sixty days from iniciarse dicha consulta dentro de

the date of the request . When un plazo de 60 días a partir de these authorities mutually agree la fecha en que se solicite. Cuanon new or revised conditions do estas autoridades se pongan

affecting the Annex, their recom- mutuamente de acuerdo sobre mendations on the matter will las nuevas o reformadas condi-

come into effect after they have ciones que afecten al Anexo, sus

been confirmed by an exchange recomendaciones en la materia

of diplomatic notes.

entrarán en vigor después que

hayan sido confirmadas mediante

un canje de notas diplomáticas.

ARTICLE 11

ARTICULO 11

Except as otherwise provided in Salvo lo que en otro sentido se Settlement of disputes.
this agreement or its Annex, any disponga en este acuerdo o en su Post, p. 2623.

dispute between the contracting anexo, cualquier disputa entre las parties relative to the interpreta- partes contratantes relativa a la

tion or application of this agree- interpretación o aplicación de este ment or its Annex, which cannot acuerdo o su anexo que no pueda

be settled through consultation, ser ajustada mediante consulta, shall be submitted for an advisory será sometida, para fines de inreport to a tribunal of three forme consultivo , a un tribunal de arbitrators, one to be named by tres árbitros, de los cuales cada

Tribunal of arbitra tors.

each contracting party, and the parte contratante nombrará uno , third to be agreed upon by the two y el tercero será nombrado medi-

arbitrators so chosen, provided ante acuerdo de los dos árbitros that such third arbitrator shall not así escogidos , con tal de que ese

be a national of either contracting tercer árbitro no sea nacional de party. Each of the contracting ninguna de las partes contratanparties shall designate an arbitra- tes . Cada una de las partes

Designation .

tor within two months of the date contratantes designará un árbitro

of delivery by either party to the dentro de los dos meses de la fecha

other party of a diplomatic note de la entrega por cualquiera de las

requesting arbitration of a dispute ; partes a la otra parte de una nota and the third arbitrator shall be diplomática en la que se solicite el

agreed upon within one month arbitraje de una disputa ; y se

2622

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Expenses. Entry into force. Authentic texts.

after such period of two months. llegará a un acuerdo sobre el If the third arbitrator is not tercer árbitro dentro del mes

agreed upon, within the time siguiente a dicho período de dos limitation indicated , the vacancy meses. Si no se llega a un acuerdo thereby created shall be filled by sobre el tercer árbitro, dentro de la the appointment of a person , indicada limitación de tiempo, se designated by the President of the llenará la vacante así producida Council of International Civil mediante el nombramiento de una Aviation Organization from a pan- persona escogida, por el Presidente el of arbitral personnel maintained del Consejo de la Organización in accordance with the practice of Internacional de Aviación Civil, de International Civil Aviation Or- una lista de personal de arbitraje ganization. The executive author- mantenida de acuerdo con la ities of the contracting parties will práctica de la Organización Interuse their best efforts under the nacional de Aviación Civil. Las

powers available to them to put autoridades ejecutivas de las par-

into effect the opinion expressed in tes contratantes desplegarán sus

any such advisory report . A mejores esfuerzos, de acuerdo con

moiety of the expenses of the los poderes de que estén investidas, arbitral tribunal shall be borne by para implantar la opinión expre-

each party.

sada en dicho informe consultivo .

Cada parte costeará la mitad de

los gastos del tribunal de arbitraje.

ARTICLE 12

ARTICULO 12

This agreement , including the Este acuerdo, junto con las dis-

provisions of the Annex thereto , posiciones de su anexo, entrará en

will come into force on the day vigor el día en que sea firmado. it is signed.

In witness whereof, the under- En fé de lo cual, los abajo

signed , being duly authorized by firmados, debidamente autoriza-

their respective Governments, dos por sus Gobiernos respectivos ,

have signed the present agree- han firmado el presente acuerdo . ment.

Done at Ciudad Trujillo this Hecho en Ciudad Trujillo , hoy

nineteenth day of July 1949 , in día diecinueve de julio de 1949 ,

duplicate in the English and en dos originales , en los idiomas

Spanish languages, each of which inglés y español, cada uno de los

shall be of equal authenticity .

cuales será igualmente auténtico .

[ SEAL] [SEAL]

RALPH HACKERMAN V. D ORDOÑEZ

[SEAL] [SEAL]

RALPH HACKERMAN V. D ORDOÑEZ

63 STAT. ] DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JULY 19, 1949 2623

ANNEX TO AIR TRANSPORT ANEXO DEL ACUERDO SOBRE AGREEMENT BETWEEN TRANSPORTE AEREO ENTHE GOVERNMENT OF THE TRE EL GOBIERNO DE LOS UNITED STATES OF AMER . ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMEICA AND THE GOVERN- RICA Y EL GOBIERNO DE LA MENT OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLICA DOMINICANA REPUBLIC

1.- Airlines of the United States

1. A las líneas aéreas de los U.S. rights oftransit and nontraffic stop in

authorized under the present Estados Unidos autorizadas de tphubeliDco. minican Re-

agreement are accorded rights of acuerdo con el presente convenio

transit and nontraffic stop in the se les otorgan derechos de tránsito

Dominican Republic, as well as y de parada fuera de tráfico en la

the right to pick up and discharge República Dominicana , así como international traffic in passengers , el derecho de recoger y descargar

cargo and mail at Ciudad Tru- tráfico internacional en pasajeros ,

jillo, over various routes in both cargas y correspondencia en Ciudirections from the United States dad Trujillo , en distintas rutas y

Post, p. 2626.

to the Dominican Republic and en ambas direcciones , de los Esta-

beyond to Caribbean and South dos Unidos a la República Domini-

American points.

cana y hasta puntos más lejanos

del Caribe y de la América del Sur.

2. - Airlines of the Dominican

" Dominican rights of 2. Se conceden a las líneas transit and nontraffic

Republic are accorded rights of aéreas de la República Domini- stop in the U.S.

transit and nontraffic stop in the cana derechos de tránsito , y dere-

territory of the United States of chos de parada fuera de tráfico , en America, as well as the right to el territorio de los Estados Unidos

pick up and discharge interna- de América, así como el derecho

tional traffic in passengers , cargo, de tomar y descargar tráfico interand mail on the following routes, nacional consistente en pasajeros ,

Routes .

or via intermediate points, and in carga y correspondencia en las

both directions :

siguientes rutas, o vía puntos

intermedios, y en ambas direc-

ciones:

(1) : The Dominican Republic to Miami.

(1 ) : de la República Dominicana a Miami .

(2) : The Dominican Republic (2) : De la República Domini-

to San Juan, Puerto Rico .

cana a San Juan de Puerto

Rico .

-

--

3. It is agreed between the 3. Las partes contratantes

contracting parties :

convienen lo siguiente:

A. - The air carriers of the two contracting parties operating on routes described in the

A.- Las naves aéreas de ambas partes contratantes que operen en las rutas descritas

Fair and equal op-
portunity for operation of routes.

Annex of said Agreement shall

en el anexo de dicho acuerdo

enjoy fair and equal oppor-

disfrutarán de justas e idénti-

tunity for the operation of the said routes.

cas oportunidades para funcionar en dichas rutas .

B. That the air transport ca- B.- La capacidad de transporte

Capacity.

pacity offered by the carriers 81939-52--PT. III-- -21

ofrecidas por las naves aéreas

2624

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

of both countries should bear

de ambos países debería tener

a close relationship to traffic

una estrecha relación con los

requirements .

requisitos de tráfico .

Reciprocal interests

in trunk routes.

C. - That in the operation of com- C. - Cuando funcionen en secciones

mon sections of trunk routes the air carriers of the contract-

comunes de las líneas principales, las naves aéreas de

ing parties should take into account their reciprocal in-

las partes contratantes deberían tener en cuenta sus

terests so as not to affect un-

intereses recíprocos de manera

duly their respective services.

que no afecten indebidamente

sus servicios respectivos.

toCtarapfafcicitdyemaadnedqsua. te D. - That the services provided by D.- Los servicios atendidos , por

a designated air carrier under

una nave aérea de acuerdo con

this agreement and its Annex shall retain as their primary
objective the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country

este convenio y su anexo tendrán como principal objetivo la disposición de capacidad adecuada para las necesidades de tráfico entre el país a que

International traffic destined for third
country .

of which such air carrier is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic .

pertenezca dicha nave aérea y el país de último destino en el tráfico .

E. - That the right to embark and E. - El derecho de embarcar y des-

to disembark at points in the

embarcar, en puntos del terri-

territory of the other country international traffic destined

torio del otro país, tráfico internacional destinado a ter-

for or coming from third countries at a point or points

ceros países, o procedente de ellos, en un punto o puntos

specified in this Annex, shall be applied in accordance with

especificados en este Anexo, será aplicado de acuerdo con

the general principles of orderly development to which both Governments subscribe and shall be subject to the

los principios generales de desenvolvimiento ordenado que practican ambos gobiernos, y estará sujeto al prin-

general principle that capacity shall be related :

cipio general de que la capacidad tendrá relación :

(1) To traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of distination ;

(1) Con los requisitos de tráfico entre el país de origen y los países de destino ;

(2) To the requirements of through airline operation, and

(2) Con los requisitos de funcionamiento completo de líneas aéreas, y

(3) To the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services .

(3) Con los requisitos de tráfico del área a través de la cual pase la línea aérea, después de tener en cuenta los servicios locales y regionales.

J

63 STAT. ] DOMINICAN REPUBLIC- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -JULY 19, 1949 2625

4. -Changes made by either con- 4.- Los cambios introducidos por tracting party in the routes pro- cualquiera de las partes contravided for above, except those tantes en las rutas preindicadas, which change the points served excepto aquellos que cambien los by these airlines in the territory puntos servidos por estas líneas of the other contracting party, aéreas en el territorio de la otra shall not be considered as mod- parte contratante, no serán conifications of the Annex. The siderados como modificaciones del aeronautical authorities of either anexo. Las autoridades aero-

Changes in routes.

contracting party may therefore náuticas de cualquiera de las

proceed unilaterally to make such partes contratantes pueden, por lo

changes, provided, however, that tanto, proceder unilateralmente a

notice of any change is given hacer tales cambios, siempre que,

without delay to the aeronautical sin embargo, la notificación de authorities of the other con- cualquier cambio se haga sin

tracting party.

demora a las autoridades aeronáuticas de la otra parte con-

tratante .

If such other aeronautical au- Si estas últimas autoridades

thorities find that, having regard aeronáuticas consideran que, en

to the principles set forth in lo relativo a los principios enunSection 3 of the present Annex, ciados en la sección 3 del presente interests of their air carrier or anexo, los intereses de su línea

carriers are prejudiced by the aérea o de sus líneas aéreas son carriage by the air carrier or car- perjudicados por el funcionariers of the first contracting party miento de la línea aérea o de las of traffic between the territory of líneas aéreas de la primera parte

the second contracting party and contratante en el tráfico entre el

the new point in the territory of territorio de la segunda parte

the third country, the authorities contratante y el nuevo punto del

of the two contracting parties territorio del tercer país , las au-

shall consult with a view to arrive toridades de ambas partes con-

at a satisfactory agreement .

tratantes se consultarán con el

Points on any of the specified routes may at the option of the

propósito de llegar a un acuerdo satisfactorio .
Los puntos de cualquiera de
las rutas especificadas pueden, a

Omission of points on specified routes.

designated airlines be omitted on opción de las líneas aéreas desig-

any or all flights . Air services nadas, ser omitidos en cualquier operated on each of the air routes vuelo, o en todos los vuelos. Los

specified may be operated via servicios aéreos realizados en cada

intermediate points and in both una de las rutas aéreas especifica-

directions.

das, pueden ser realizados vía

puntos intermedios y en ambas

direcciones .

2626 Ante, p. 2623.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

The American Ambassador to the Dominican Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

No. 360

CIUDAD TRUJILLO , D. R. , July 19, 1949.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the description of routes to be operated by United States airlines in paragraph 1 of the annex to the air transport agreement signed today by the Government of the United

States of America and the Government of the Dominican Republic, and to inform Your Excellency that it is the understanding of my Government that the words "from the United States" shall be con-

strued to include any and all territory under the jurisdiction of the United States.

Please accept, Excellency , the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

RALPH H. ACKERMAN

His Excellency Lic. VIRGILIO DÍAZ ORDÓÑEZ,
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Ciudad Trujillo.

The Dominican Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPUBLICA DOMINICANA SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES
21589

CIUDAD TRUJILLO , DISTRITO DE SANTO DOMINGO ,
Julio 19 de 1949.

EXCELENCIA:

Tengo a honra avisar a Vuestra Excelencia recibo de la atenta nota No. 360, con fecha de hoy, y con referencia a la descripción de rutas que operarán líneas aéreas de los Estados Unidos según el párrafo 1 del anexo al acuerdo sobre transporte aéreo firmado hoy por el Gobierno de la República Dominicana y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , de informar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno entiende que la frase "desde los Estados Unidos" se interpretará que incluya cualquier y todo territorio que se encuentre bajo la jurisdicción de los Estados Unidos.
Sirvase aceptar, Excelencia, las seguridades la más alta y distinguida consideración .
V. D ORDÓN EZ Su Excelencia
RALPH H. ACKERMAN , Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad Trujillo.

63 STAT. ] DOMINICAN REPUBLIC-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JULY 19, 1949 2627

Translation

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR FOREIGN RELATIONS

CIUDAD TRUJILLO, DISTRITO DE SANTO DOMINGO,

21589 EXCELLENCY :

July 19, 1949.

I have the honor to acknowledge to Your Excellency receipt of the courteous note No. 360 , dated today, and, with reference to the description of routes to be operated by United States airlines in paragraph 1 of the annex to the air transport agreement signed today by the Government of the Dominican Republic and the Government of the United States of America, to inform Your Excellency that it is the understanding of my Government that the words "from the United States " shall be construed to include any and all territory under the jurisdiction of the United States.
Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
V. D ORDOÑEZ

His Excellency RALPH H. ACKERMAN , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Ciudad Trujillo.

Ante, p. 2623.

2628

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

July 1, 1949 [T. L.A. 8. 1956]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting allocations of ferrous scrap for export, amending the agreement of September 30, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington July 1, 1949; entered into force July 1 , 1949.

The British Chargé d'Affaires to the Secretary of State

Ref. 548/67/49 No. 349

BRITISH EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D. C. July 1st, 1949.

SIR,

I have the honour to refer to the Agreement concluded on Septemp.6325988t. at., Pt. 3, ber 30th, 1948 , between the Government of the United States of

America and His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom on the subject of ferrous scrap exports, and also to discussions which have

recently taken place relating to the price of such scrap exported from

Germany under present circumstances.

As a result of these discussions, it has been agreed that it shall be

open to the United States and United Kingdom Military Governors

p.632600S.tat . , Pt . 3,

to suspend from time to time the provisions relating to the price of scrap set forth in paragraph ( 11 ) of Article II of the Agreement of September 30th, 1948, if such suspension is agreed by them to be

necessary in the interests of accomplishing the purposes of the Agreement.

Upon the receipt of a note from you indicating your Government's

confirmation of this change, my Government will consider that this

note and your reply will constitute an Agreement between our two Governments, effective from the date of your reply.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurance

of my highest consideration,

FR HOYER-MILLAR

The Honourable DEAN ACHESON,

Charge d'Affaires.

Secretary of State, United States Department of State,

Washington, D. C.

63 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-FERROUS SCRAP-JULY 1, 1949

2629

The Secretary of State to the British Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Jul 1 1949

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 349 of July 1, 1949 referring to the Agreement concluded on September 30, 1948 between the Government of the United States of America

and His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom on the subject of ferrous scrap exports and also to discussions which have recently taken place relating to the price of such scrap exported from Germany

62 Stat. , p. 3598.

Pt . 3,

under present circumstances.

It is proposed in your note that it shall be open to the United States

and United Kingdom Military Governors to suspend from time to

time the provisions relating to the price of scrap set forth in para-

graph 11

of Article II of the Agreement of September 30, 1948, if

62 Stat., p. 3600.

Pt . 3,

such suspension is agreed by them to be necessary in the interests of

accomplishing the purposes of the Agreement.

This proposal is acceptable to the Government of the United States.

As proposed in your Excellency's note, therefore, your note and the present reply are regarded as constituting an Agreement between the two Governments , effective on the date of this note.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

DEAN ACHESON

His Excellency The Right Honorable Sir OLIVER SHEWELL FRANKS , K.C.B. , C.B.E British Ambassador.

2630

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

March 31 , 1949 IT. I. A. S. 1959]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting the economic fusion of American and British zones of occupation in Germany, amending and extending the agreement ofDecember 2 , 1946, as amended and extended . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington March 31 , 1949; entered into force March 31 , 1949.
The Secretary of State to the British Ambassador

EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON March 31, 1949

I have the honor to refer to the discussions which have taken place between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government

of the United States on the subject of the extension of the Agreement between the two Governments concerning the British and American Zones of Occupation in Germany.
The Government of the United States has had under consideration

the obligation assumed by the Government of the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom under paragraph ( A) of the exchange of notes between the two Governments of December 31, p.632645S. tat. , Pt . 3, 1948, to consult together before March 1 , 1949 to consider the terms and conditions of a new Agreement for a further period.
At the time of this exchange of notes, it was hoped that prior to the expiration of the period for which the Agreement was extended the new arrangements relating to Germany arising out of the six-power talks held in London last spring would have matured and that it would be possible to negotiate a new agreement to include France. Since these arrangements have not yet matured, the Government of the United States believes that under the circumstances the most prac-

tical arrangement is an extension for a three month's period of the present Agreement, as amended by the change outlined below, with the

understanding that it can be sooner terminated by mutual agreement or by the conclusion of a Trizonal Fusion Agreement. The change sug-

gested is that the provisions of the Fusion Agreement relating to trade and payments between the Bizonal Area and the Sterling Area shall continue in force only until a payments agreement between the United Kingdom and the Bizonal Area is concluded and in effect.
I therefore have the honor to submit the following proposals for the consideration of the Government of the United Kingdom :

61 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 2475.
61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 3608.
62 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 3645.

(A) The Fusion Agreement of December 2 , 1946 , as amended on December 17, 1947, and as further amended by the exchange of notes of December 31 , 1948 , shall, unless sooner terminated by mutual agreement or by the conclusion of a Trizonal Fusion Agreement, be extended to June 30, 1949, except that the provisions of

63 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- ZONES IN GERMANY-MAR. 31, 1949

2631

paragraph 3 of the Agreement signed in Washington on December 17, 1947, shall terminate upon the effective date of a payments agreement to be concluded between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Bizonal Area. The two Governments shall consult

61 Stat . , p. 3610.

Pt . 4,

together before June 1, 1949 to consider the terms and conditions of

a new agreement for a further period if prior to that time a Tri-

zonal Fusion Agreement has not been concluded. U.K. contribution
(B) During the period for which the existing Fusion Agreement of supplies and serv-

is extended, the Government of the United Kingdom will continue ices.

their contribution of supplies and services to Germany at the existing basic rate of 17-12 million pounds per annum ( approximately

the equivalent of 70 million dollars) .

(C) Separate discussions will take place as to the nature of goods

and services to be provided by the Government of the United

Kingdom for the second quarter of 1949, if as a result of seasonal

or other factors it proves impossible or difficult to furnish supplies

and services which, when added to the supplies and services fur-

nished for the first quarter of 1949, amount to precisely one-half

of the quantities of the goods and services specified in the Annex 61 Stat. , Pt . 4,
to the Agreement of December 17, 1947, amending the Fusion p.3617.

Agreement.

Should these proposals commend themselves to the Government of the United Kingdom, I have the honor to suggest that this note and your reply should constitute an Agreement between our two Governments .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

For the Secretary of State :

His Excellency The Right Honorable Sir OLIVER SHEWELL FRANKS , British Ambassador.

ROBERT MURPHY

The British Ambassador to the Secretary of State

Ref. 39/27/49 No. 165

BRITISH EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D. C. March 31st, 1949.

SIR,

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your note of today's date, the terms of which are as follows : -

"I have the honor to refer to the discussions which have taken

place between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of the United States on the subject of the extension of the Agreement between the two Governments concering the British and American Zones of Occupation in Germany.

81939-52-PT. III- -22

2632
62 Stat. , Pt. 3, p. 3645.
61 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 2475.
61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 3608.
62 Stat. , Pt . 3, p. 3645.
61 Stat. , Pt . 4, p. 3610.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
"The Government of the United States has had under consideration the obligation assumed by the Government of the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom under paragraph (A ) of the exchange of notes between the two Governments of December 31 , 1948, to consult together before March 1 , 1949 to consider the terms and conditions of a new Agreement for a further period .
"At the time of this exchange of notes, it was hoped that prior to the expiration of the period for which the Agreement was extended the new arrangements relating to Germany arising out of the six-power talks held in London last spring would have matured and that it would be possible to negotiate a new agreement to include France. Since these arrangements have not yet matured, the Government of the United States believes that under the circumstances the most practical arrangement is an extension for a three months' period of the present Agreement, as amended by the change outlined below, with the understanding that it can be sooner terminated by mutual agreement or by the conclusion of a Trizonal Fusion Agreement. The change suggested is that the provisions of the Fusion Agreement relating to trade and payments between the Bizonal Area and the Sterling Area shall continue in force only until a payments agreement between the United Kingdom and the Bizonal Area is concluded and in effect.
"I therefore have the honor to submit the following proposals for the consideration of the Government of the United Kingdom :
(A) The Fusion Agreement of December 2, 1946, as amended on December 17, 1947, and as further amended by the exchange of notes of December 31 , 1948, shall, unless sooner terminated by mutual agreement or by the conclusion of a Trizonal Fusion Agreement, be extended to June 30, 1949, except that the provisions of paragraph 3 of the Agreement signed in Washington on December 17, 1947, shall terminate upon the effective date of a payments agreement to be concluded between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Bizonal Area. The two Governments shall consult together before June 1 , 1949 to consider the terms and conditions of a new agreement for a further period if prior to that time a Trizonal Fusion Agreement has not been concluded.
(B ) During the period for which the existing Fusion Agreement is extended, the Government of the United Kingdom will continue their contribution of supplies and services to Germany at the existing basic rate of 17-12 million pounds per annum (approximately the equivalent of 70 million dollars ) .
(C ) Separate discussions will take place as to the nature of goods and services to be provided by the Government of the United Kingdom for the second quarter of 1949, if as a result of seasonal or other factors it proves impossible or difficult to furnish supplies and services which, when added to the supplies and

63 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- ZONES IN GERMANY- MAR. 31, 1949

2633

services furnished for the first quarter of 1949, amount to pre-

cisely one-half of the quantities of the goods and services specified in the annex to the Agreement of December 17, 1947, amending the Fusion Agreement.

61 Stat . , p. 3617.

Pt . 4 ,

"Should these proposals commend themselves to the Government of the United Kingdom, I have the honor to suggest that this note and your reply should constitute an Agreement between our two Governments."

In reply, I have the honour to inform you that His Majesty's Gov-

ernment in the United Kingdom accept the proposals set forth in

your note and, in accordance with the suggestion contained therein,

your note and this reply shall be regarded as constituting an Agreement between our two Governments in this matter.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurance

of my highest consideration,

OLIVER FRANKS

The Honourable

DEAN ACHESON,

Secretary of State, United States Department of State, Washington, D. C.

2634

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

March 17, 25, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1960]

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a cooperative program of anthropological research and investigation in Peru , superseding the agreement of March 9 and August 4, 1944. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima March 17 and 25, 1949; entered into force March 25, 1949, operative retroactively from July 1, 1948.

58 Stat. 1518.

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister of Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY,

No. 233

Lima, March 17, 1949

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the agreement between the United States of America and Perú regarding anthropological research and investigation which was effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima on March 9 and August 4, 1944 and under the provisions of which work was begun in Perú in 1944. I refer also to the request of the Ministry of Education of the Government of Perú that the Government of the United States of America continue to make available the

services of one or more social anthropologists to assist in furthering the development of social sciences in Perú.
Pursuant to that request, I have the honor to state, at the instance

of my Government, that the Institute of Social Anthropology of the Smithsonian Institution is prepared to cooperate with the appropriate

Peruvian authorities in the continued conduct of anthropological research and investigation in Perú in accordance with the following principles and procedures :

1. General Provisions . The Government of the United States of America, desiring to cooperate with the Government of Perú in this undertaking, agrees , subject to its own personnel requirements, to make available to the Government of Perú the services of one or more social anthropologists of the Institute of Social Anthropology of the Smithsonian Institution. American personnel detailed under the provisions of this agreement will be stationed in Lima to cooperate with the personnel of the Instituto de Estudios Etnológicos of the Museo de la Cultura Peruana , a dependency of the Ministry of Education.
It shall be the general objective of the program (a) To provide university and field training for students in social anthropology in particular, and in the social sciences in general, which will serve to equip the trainees for teaching, research, and administrative positions in Perú when a need therefor has been expressed by the appropriate Peruvian authorities. (b) To assist in coordinating the efforts of collaborating scientists of the United States of America and Perú in conducting long-range social science studies in selected areas to be chosen by joint agreement

63 STAT. ] PERU- ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH- MAR. 17, 25, 1949
of all cooperating parties . It is understood that cooperation in field work on the part of collaborating scientists and institutions not covered by this Agreement will be solicited as the necessity for specialized research is indicated.
(c) To further additionally the development of anthropological and other social sciences in Perú when the occasion arises , and in the manner best suited to the situation .
(d) To publish research findings under such suspices and in such forms and languages as in the opinion of the cooperating parties will render them most useful.
2. Specific Undertakings on the Part of the Government of the United States of America. Subject to the availability of appropriated funds the Government of the United States of America , through the Smithsonian Institution , agrees -
(a) To continue to detail one social anthropologiest to the Ministry of Education of the Government of Perú, with the understanding that he will be stationed in Lima, to cooperate with the personnel of the Instituto de Estudios Etnológicos of the Museo de la Cultura Peruana ;
(b) To pay the salary, living allowances, international travel , travel within Perú , and field expenses of the social anthropologist referred to in paragraph (a) above .
(c) To publish such portion of the results of the cooperative field work undertaken in accordance with the present agreement as may be to the mutual satisfaction of all cooperating parties ;
(d) To give fullest consideration to any request of the Government of Perú for the detail under the present agreement of additional social scientists, should the need for their services become apparent , the financial arrangements for any such detail to be set forth in a subsequent exchange of notes between the two Governments ; and
(e) To provide the Government of Perú, through the American Embassy in Lima , with biographical and professional data concerning each social scientist proposed for the detail . The assignment of each social scientist shall be effected on the basis of his acceptability to the Government of Perú.
3. Specific Undertakings on the Part of the Government of Perú . Subject to the availability of appropriated funds the Government of Perú, through the Ministry of Education, agrees -
(a) To provide in Lima at the Instituto de Estudios Etnológicos the necessary headquarters for training and research, including adequate office space, laboratories, books , classrooms, and other teaching facilities ;
(b) To pay all the research expenses of Peruvian students and professors during that part of each year which, by mutual agreement , shall be devoted to field studies ;
(c) To publish such portion of the results of the cooperative field work undertaken in accordance with the present agreement as may be to the mutual satisfaction of all cooperating parties ;
(d) To grant free entry for the necessary professional material and equipment for the use of the scientists of the Smithsonian Institution ;

2635

2636
58 Stat. 1518. Entry into force.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
(e) To grant free entry, in accordance with the limitations set for First Secretaries in the Diplomatic Corps accredited to the Government of Perú, for personal effects of the members of the Smithsonian Institution assigned to carry on ethnological studies in Perú, any customs duties in excess of those limitations to be paid by the respective members ;
(f) To grant exemption from all Peruvian taxes on salaries or personal property of the American scientists detailed under the present agreement .
4. Revisions . The present agreement may be revised, amended, or changed in whole or in part with the approval of both Governments, as indicated and effected by an exchange of notes between the two Governments .
5. Term. The present agreement shall remain in effect until June 30, 1953 and may be continued in force for additional periods by written agreement to that effect by the two Governments, but either Government may terminate the present agreement by giving to the other Government notice in writing ninety days in advance . If the congress of either country should fail to make available the funds necessary for the execution of the present agreement , either Government may terminate the present agreement by giving to the other Government notice in writing sixty days in advance.
The present Agreement, upon its entry into force, shall supersede the agreement between the United States of America and Perú regarding anthropological research and investigation which was effected by exchange of notes signed in Lima on March 9 and August 4, 1944 .
Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that the foregoing principles and procedures are acceptable to the Government of Perú , the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, which shall be considered in force from July 1 , 1948 .
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration,
HAROLD H. TITTMANN Ambassador
His Excellency Contralmirante FEDERICO Díaz Dulanto, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lima.

The Peruvian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

N 6-3/49

LIMA, 25 de marzo de 1949

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR : Tengo a honra referirme al Convenio entre los Estados Unidos de

América y el Perú sobre estudios e investigaciones Antropológicas , que

63 STAT. ] PERU-ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH-MAR. 17, 25, 1949
se realizó por cambio de notas firmadas en Lima el 9 de marzo y el 4 de agosto de 1944 y a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia N° 233 , de 17 de marzo último, que se refiere a la prórroga del Convenio en mención.
En respuesta, me es grato expresarle que mi Gobierno acepta gustoso, de conformidad con los principios y procedimientos que a continuación se anotan, la propuesta que Vuestra Excelencia formula en su última nota.
1.- Disposiciones Generales . El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, deseando cooperar con el Gobierno del Perú en esta empresa, accede, sejeto a las necesidades de su propio personal, a proporcionar al Gobierno del Perú los servicios de uno o más antropologos sociales de la Institución Smithoniana. El personal Americano detallado en estas disposiciones de este acuerdo estará destacado en Lima para cooperar con el personal del Instituto de Estudios Etnológicos del Museo de la Cultura Peruana, una dependencia del Ministerio de Educación Pública .
El objetivo general del programa será : a) Proveer a los estudiantes de un campo de entrenamiento universitario y práctico de antropología social en particular, y en ciencias sociales en general, que les sirva para capacitar a los entrenados para la enseñanza, investigación, y para ocupar posiciones administrativas en el Perú cunado ello sea necesario y así sea manifestado por las autoridades peruanas competentes . b) Para colaborar en la coordinación de los esfuerzos de los cientificos de los Estados Unidos de América y del Perú que llevan a cabo estudios sociales avanzados en las areas seleccionadas previamente mediante un acuerdo conjunto de las partes cooperantes. Queda entendido que la cooperación para trabajos de parte de los científicos e instituciones que colaboran y que no están comprendidas en este Acuerdo , será solicitada cuando se indique la necesidad de estas investigaciones especializadas . c) Ampliar además el desarrollo de las ciencias antropológicas y sociales en el Perú , cuando la ocación se presente, y en la forma más conveniente a la situación. d) Publicar los resultados obtenidos en las investigaciones y en la forma e idioma que en opinión de las partes cooperantes sea más provechosa . 2. - Trabajos específicos por parte del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América . Con sujeción a la disponibilidad de los fondos apropiados, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, a traves del Instituto Smithoniano , conviene : a) Seguir destacando un Antropológo Social al Ministerio de Educación Pública del Gobierno del Perú , bajo la condición de que trabajará en Lima a fin de cooperar con el personal del Instituto de Estudios Etnológicos del Museo de la Cultura Peruana; b) Pagar el sueldo , asignación para gastos , viajes internacionales, viajes dentro del Perú, y gastos en los trabajos prácticos efectuados en el campo para el antropólogo social, al cual se hace referencia en el párrafo (a) arriba mencionado.

2637

2638

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
c) Publicar aquella parte de los resultados de los trabajos prácticos llevados a cabo en cooperación, de conformidad con el presente Convenio , y con la mutua satisfacción de las partes cooperantes.
d) Dar plena atención a cualquiera solicitud del Gobierno del Perú, en el sentido de destacar científicos sociales adicionales , de acuerdo con el presente convenio, en el caso de que la necesidad de dichos servicios fuere manifiesta, los arreglos financieros para dicho destaque, serán convenidos en un intercambio posterior de notas entre los dos Gobiernos ; y
e) Proporcionar al Gobierno del Perú , a traves de la Embajada Americana en Lima, los datos biográficos y profesionales relativos a cada uno de los científicos sociales que hayan sido propuestos para ser destacados . La asignación de cada uno de los científicos sociales será hecho sobre la base de su aceptabilidad por el Gobierno del Perú .
3. Trabajos específicos por parte del Gobierno del Perú . Con
sujeción a la disponibilidad de fondos apropiados , el Gobierno del Perú, a través del Ministerio de Educación Pública, Conviene:
a) Proporcionar en Lima en el Instituto de Estudios Etnológicos , las oficinas necesarias para entrenamiento e investigación, incluyendo espacio adecuado para oficinas, laboratórios , libros, aulas y otras facilidades de enseñanza.
b) Pagar todos los gastos de investigación de los estudiantes y profesores peruanos durante la parte del año que, por mutuo acuerdo , se dedique a los estudios prácticos .
c) Publicar aquella parte de los resultados obtenidos del trabajo cooperativo emprendido de acuerdo con el presente acuerdo que sea de mutuo agrado de las partes cooperantes ;
d) Conceder entrada libre de derechos al material profesional necesario y equipo para el uso de los científicos de la Institución Smithsoniana ;
e) Conceder entrada libre de derechos , de acuerdo con las limitaciones impuestas a los Primeros Secretarios del Cuerpo Diplomático acreditados ante el Gobierno del Perú , para los efectos personales de los miembros de la Institución Smithoniana designados para llevar a cabo estudios etnológicos en el Perú , cualquier derecho aduanero que exceda a esas limitaciones deberá ser pagado por dichos miembros ;
f) Exonerar los impuestos peruanos a los salarios o propiedades personales , detallados en el presente acuerdo , de los hombres de ciencia Americanos :
4.- Revisiones . - El presente acuerdo puede ser revisado , enmendado , o cambiado en todo o en parte con la aprobación de ambos Gobiernos com se indicó y efectuada por un intercambio de notas. entre los dos Gobiernos.
5.- Plazo de duración. - El presente acuerdo continuará en vigencia hasta el 30 de junio de 1953 y podrá continuar en vigor por períodos adicionales por un acuerdo escrito con ese fin por los Gobiernos , pero cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos puede cancelar el presente acuerdo dando un aviso por escrito con noventa días de anticipación . Si el Congreso de cualquiera de los dos países no concediera los fondos

63 STAT. ] PERU-ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH- MAR. 17, 25, 1949

2639

necesarios para la ejecución del presente acuerdo , cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos puede dar por terminado el presente acuerdo dandole al otro Gobierno un aviso por escrito con sesenta días de anticipación .
El presente Acuerdo, cuando entre en vigor derogará el acuerdo entre los Estados Unidos de América y el Perú concerniente a los estudios e investigaciones antropológicas que se celebró mediante un intercambio de notas firmadas en Lima el 9 de marzo y 4 de agosto de 1944 .
Aprovecho de la presente oportunidad para reiterarle , señor Embajador , los sentimientos de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
FDCO. DIAZ DULANTO Federico Diaz Dulanto
Al Excelentísimo señor HAROLD TITTMAN Jr. Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No. 6-3/49

LIMA, March 25, 1949

MR. AMBASSADOR:

I have the honor to refer to the agreement between the United States of America and Peru regarding anthropological research and investigation which was effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima on March 9 and August 4, 1944 , and to Your Excellency's note No. 233 of March 17 last, which refers to the extension of the aforesaid agreement .

In reply I am pleased to inform you that my Government accepts with pleasure the proposal made by Your Excellency in his latest note, in accordance with the following principles and procedures :

1. General Provisions . The Government of the United States

of America, desiring to cooperate with the Government of Peru in this undertaking, agrees, subject to its own personnel requirements, to make available to the Government of Peru the services of one or more

social anthropologists of the Smithsonian Institution . American personnel detailed under the provisions of this agreement will be stationed in Lima to cooperate with the personnel of the Instituto de Estudios Etnológicos of the Museo de la Cultura Peruana , a dependency of the Ministry of Public Education.

The general objective of the program shall be:

58 Stat. 1518. Ante, p. 2634.

(a) To provide university and field training for students in social anthropology in particular, and in the social sciences in general , which will serve to equip the trainees for teaching, research, and administrative positions in Peru when a need therefor has been expressed by the appropriate Peruvian authorities.
(b) To assist in coordinating the efforts of scientists of the United States of America and Peru in conducting long-range social studies in selected areas to be chosen by joint agreement of the cooperating

2640

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
parties. It is understood that cooperation in field work on the part of collaborating scientists and institutions not covered by this Agreement will be solicited as the necessity for specialized research is indicated .
(c) To further additionally the development of anthropological and social sciences in Peru when the occasion arises, and in the manner best suited to the situation.
(d) To publish research findings under such auspices and in such forms and languages as in the opinion of the cooperating parties will render them most useful.
2. Specific Undertakings on the Part of the Government of the United States of America. Subject to the availability of appropriated funds , the Government of the United States of America, through the Smithsonian Institution, agrees:
(a) To continue to detail one social anthropologist to the Ministry of Public Education of the Government of Peru, with the understanding that he will be stationed in Lima, to cooperate with the personnel of the Instituto de Estudios Etnológicos of the Museo de la Cultura Peruana ;
(b) To pay the salary, living allowances , international travel, travel within Peru, and field expenses of the social anthropologist referred to in paragraph (a) above ;
(c) To publish such portion of the results of the cooperative field work undertaken in accordance with the present agreement as may be to the mutual satisfaction of the cooperating parties ;
(d) To give full consideration to any request of the Government of Peru for the detail under the present agreement of additional social scientists , should the need for their services become apparent , the financial arrangements for any such detail to be set forth in a subsequent exchange of notes between the two Governments ; and
(e) To provide the Government of Peru, through the American Embassy in Lima, with biographical and professional data concerning each social scientist proposed for the detail . The assignment of each social scientist shall be effected on the basis of his acceptability to the Government of Peru.
3. Specific Undertakings on the Part of the Government of Peru . Subject to the availability of appropriated funds , the Government of Peru, through the Ministry of Public Education, agrees :
(a) To provide in Lima at the Instituto de Estudios Etnológicos the necessary headquarters for training and research, including adequate office space , laboratories , books , classrooms, and other teaching facilities ;
(b) To pay all the research expenses of Peruvian students and professors during that part of the year which, by mutual agreement , shall be devoted to field studies ;
(c) To publish such portion of the cooperative field work undertaken in accordance with the present agreement as may be to the mutual satisfaction of the cooperating parties ;

63 STAT. ] PERU-ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH- MAR. 17, 25, 1949

2641

(d) To grant free entry for the necessary professional material and equipment for the use of the scientists of the Smithsonian Institution ;
(e) To grant free entry, in accordance with the limitations set for First Secretaries in the Diplomatic Corps accredited to the Government of Peru, for personal effects of the members of the Smithsonian Institution assigned to carry on ethnological studies in Peru , any customs duties in excess of those limitations to be paid by the respective members ;
(f) To grant exemption from all Peruvian taxes on salaries or personal property of the American scientists detailed under the present agreement.
4. Revisions. The present agreement may be revised, amended , or changed in whole or in part with the approval of both Governments , as indicated and effected by an exchange of notes between the two Governments .
5. Term. The present agreement shall remain in effect until June 30 , 1953 , and may be continued in force for additional periods by written agreement to that effect by the two Governments , but either Government may terminate the present agreement by giving notice in writing ninety days in advance. If the Congress of either country should fail to make available the funds necessary for the execution of the present agreement , either Government may terminate the present agreement by giving to the other Government a notice in writing sixty days in advance .
The present Agreement, upon its entry into force, shall supersede the agreement between the United States of America and Peru regarding anthropological research and investigation which was effected by exchange of notes signed in Lima on March 9 and August 4 , 1944 .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
FDCO. DIAZ DULANTO Federico Diaz Dulanto

58 Stat. 1518;

His Excellency HAROLD TITTMAN, Jr. Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America. City.

;

2642

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

December 4, 1943, April 19, 1944, and
June 21, 1949
IT. I. A. S. 1961]

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting a cooperative program of anthropological research and investigation in Mexico. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington June 21, 1949; entered into force June 21 , 1949; operative retroactively from July 1 , 1948. And agreement effected by exchange of notes signed at México December 4, 1943, and April 19, 1944 ; entered into force April 19, 1944.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Mexican Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON
Jun 21 1949

Post, pp. 2649, 2652.

EXCELLENCY :
I have the honor to refer to the agreement between the United States of America and the United Mexican States regarding a cooperative program for anthropological research and investigation which was effected by an exchange of notes signed at Mexico, D. F., on December 4, 1943 and April 19, 1944, and to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America agrees to the continuance of the cooperative program of anthropological research and investigation in Mexico, which shall be carried on by the Smithsonian Institution on behalf of the Government of the United States of America and by the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia of the Ministry of Public Education on behalf of the Government of the United Mexican States in accordance with the following principles and procedures :

1. General Provisions. The general objectives of the cooperative program of anthropological research and investigation shall be :
(a) to provide university and field training for students in anthropology , ethnology, linguistics, and related fields of scientific investigation ;
(b) to promote long-range cooperative programs of anthropological field research among the indigenous peoples of Mexico , designed to afford opportunities for student training in field work and to secure significant basic data for an understanding of the rural peoples of the Americas ;
(c ) to assist in coordinating the efforts of collaborating scientists of the United States of America and the United Mexican States in conducting long-range studies in such fields of social science as may be mutually agreed upon, and to solicit the cooperation of such scientists in field work as the need for specialized research may require ;

Dec. 4, 1943, Apr. 19, 1944

63 STAT. ] MEXICO- ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH-

June 21, 1949

(d) to promote the development of anthropological and other social sciences in the United Mexican States by such other means and upon such other occasions as may be appropriate ;
(e) to publish research findings under the auspices of the cooperating institutions in such forms and languages as may be mutually agreed upon.
2. Specific Undertakings on the Part of the Government of the United States of America. Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the Government of the United States of America agrees :
(a ) to make available to the Ministry of Public Education of the Government of the United Mexican States the services of one or more anthropologists or specialists in closely related fields of scientific investigation with the understanding that they shall be stationed in Mexico, D. F. to cooperate with the personnel of the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia ;
(b ) to pay the salaries, living allowances, international travel expenses, expenses of travel within Mexico, and field expenses of the social scientists referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph ;
(c) to publish such portion of the results of the cooperative field work undertaken in accordance with the present agreement as may be mutually agreed upon ;
(d) to communicate to the Government of the United Mexican States biographical and professional data concerning each social scientist proposed for assignment in accordance with the present agreement, with such assignments being contingent upon their acceptability to the Government of the United Mexican States.

3. Specific Undertakings on the Part of the Government of the United Mexican States . Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the Government of the United Mexican States agrees :
(a) to make available the services of the faculty of the Escuela Nacional de Antropología and of its cooperating institutions for the training of students and to designate qualified students for both university and field training ;
(b) to furnish in Mexico, D. F., at the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia the necessary headquarters for training and research, including adequate office space , laboratories, equipment, classrooms , and other teaching facilities ;
(c) to pay all the research expenses of Mexican professors and students during that period of each year which, by mutual agreement, shall be devoted to field studies ;
(d ) to publish such portion of the results of the cooperative field work undertaken in accordance with the present agreement as may be mutually agreed upon ;
(e) to provide entry free from customs duties for all personal effects, including clothing, household furnishings, books, and personal automobiles, belonging to United States scientists assigned to Mexico in accordance with the present agreement or to members of their immediate families ;

2643

2644

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

(f) to provide entry free from customs duties for all scientific materials and supplies, including automobiles, belonging to the Government of the United States of America and destined for the professional use of the United States scientists assigned to Mexico in accordance with the present agreement.
4. Revisions. The present agreement may be revised, amended, or changed in whole or in part with the approval of both Governments, as embodied in and effected by an exchange of notes between the two Governments.
5. Term. The present agreement shall remain in force until June 30, 1953 and may be continued in effect for additional periods through written agreement to that effect by the two Governments, but either Government may terminate the present agreement by giving to the other Government notice in writing ninety days in advance. If the Congress of either country should fail to make available the funds necessary for the execution of the present agreement, either Government may terminate the present agreement by giving to the other Government notice in writing sixty days in advance.

Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that the foregoing principles and procedures are acceptable to the Government of the United Mexican States, the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, which shall be considered effective from July 1 , 1948.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

His Excellency Señor Don RAFAEL DE LA COLINA, Ambassador of Mexico.

JAMES E. WEBB Acting Secretary of State

The Mexican Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

EMBAJADA DE MEXICO

3146 SEÑOR SECRETARIO :

WASHINGTON, D. C. , a 21 de junio de 1949.

Tengo el honor de referirme al acuerdo celebrado entre los Estados Unidos Mexicanos y los Estados Unidos de América en relación a un programa cooperativo de estudios e investigaciones antropológicas según canje de notas efectuado en la ciudad de México el 4 de diciembre de 1943 y el 19 de abril de 1944 y de informar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos conviene en continuar el programa cooperativo de estudios e investigaciones antropológicas en México, el cual será llevado a cabo por el Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia de la Secretaría de Educación Pública, en nombre

Dec. 4, 1943, Apr. 19, 1944

63 STAT. ] MEXICO- ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH-

June 21, 1949

del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, y por el Instituto Smithsoniano, en nombre del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, de conformidad con los siguientes principios y procedimientos :
1. Disposiciones Generales. Los objetivos generales del programa cooperativo de estudios e investigaciones antropológicas, serán :
(a ) proveer estudios universitarios y adiestramiento sobre el terreno a estudiantes de antropología, etnología , lingüística y otros campos afines de investigación científica ;
(b) promover programas cooperativos de largo alcance de investigaciones antropológicas sobre el terreno entre los pueblos indígenas de México, concebidas en forma que ofrezcan oportunidades para adiestramiento de estudiantes en trabajos sobre el terreno y que aseguren datos básicos de importancia para la comprensión de la población rural de las Américas ;
(c ) ayudar en la coordinación de los esfuerzos en que colaboren hombres de ciencia de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos y de los Estados Unidos de América para llevar a cabo estudios de largo alcance en aquellos campos de las ciencias sociales a que se pueda llegar por mutuo acuerdo, y solicitar la cooperación de dichos hombres de ciencia para trabajos sobre el terreno, según lo requiriesen las investigaciones especializadas ;
(d ) promover el desarrollo de la antropología y de otras ciencias sociales en los Estados Unidos Mexicanos por todos los demás medios y en todas las ocasiones en que pueda ser apropiado ;
(e) publicar los resultados de sus investigaciones bajo los auspicios de las instituciones que cooperen, en las formas e idiomas que se acuerden mutuamente.
2. Ogligaciones Específicas por Parte del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América . Con sujeción a la disponibilidad de partidas presupuestales, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América conviene :
(a) en poner a la disposición de la Secretaría de Educación Pública de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos los servicios de uno o más antropólogos o especialistas en otros campos afines de investigación científica íntimamente relacionados, entendiéndose que residirán en la ciudad de México, para cooperar con el personal del Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia ;
(b) en pagar los sueldos, asignaciones de subsistencia, gastos de viaje internacionales y dentro de México, lo mismo que gastos sobre el terreno de los sociólogos a que se hace mención en el inciso anterior ;
(c) . en publicar la parte de los resultados de los trabajos cooperativos sobre el terreno, verificados en conformidad con el presente acuerdo, según se convenga mutuamente ;
(d) en comunicar al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos datos biográficos y profesionales sobre cada uno de los sociólogos que se proponga designar conforme al presente acuerdo , quedando dichas

2645

2646

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
designaciones condicionadas a su aceptabilidad por parte del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos.
3. Obligaciones Específicas por Parte del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos. Con sujeción a la disponibilidad de partidas presupuestales el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos conviene :
(a) en facilitar los servicios del profesorado de la Escuela Nacional de Antropología y de las instituciones que con ella cooperan para el adiestramiento de estudiantes y designar estudiantes competentes para estudios universitarios y sobre el terreno ;
(b) en proporcionar en el Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia de la ciudad de México el local necesario para adiestramiento e investigaciones, incluyendo oficinas adecuadas, laboratorios, aparatos, aulas y otras facilidades para la enseñanza ;
(c) en pagar todos los gastos de investigación de los profesores y estudiantes mexicanos durante el período de cada año que, de mutuo acuerdo, se dedicará a estudios sobre el terreno ;
(d ) en publicar la parte de los resultados de los trabajos cooperativos sobre el terreno, verificados en conformidad con el presente acuerdo , según convenga mutuamente ;
(e) en permitir la entrada libre de derechos aduanales de todos los efectos personales , incluyendo ropa , menajes de casa, libros y automóviles para uso personal, de propiedad de los hombres de ciencia de los Estados Unidos de América comisionados en conformidad con el presente acuerdo para trabajos en México o de los miembros inmediatos de sus familias ;
(f) en permitir la entrada libre de derechos aduanales de todo el material y aparatos destinados a fines científicos, incluyendo automóviles de propiedad del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y destinados al uso profesional de los hombres de ciencia de los Estados Unidos de América comisionados en México , conforme al presente acuerdo.
4. Revisiones. El presente acuerdo podrá ser revisado, reformado o alterado, en todo o en parte, con la aprobación de ambos gobiernos según se estipule y lleve a cabo por canje de notas entre los dos gobiernos.
5. Duración. El presente acuerdo permanecerá en vigor hasta el 30 de junio de 1953 y podrá continuar rigiendo por períodos adicionales mediante un acuerdo por escrito, a ese efecto, que suscriban los dos gobiernos ; pero cualquiera de éstos podrá dar por terminado el presente convenio previa notificación por escrito al otro gobierno, con noventa días de anticipación. En caso de que el congreso de cualquiera de ambos países no aprobare los fondos necesarios para el cumplimiento del presente acuerdo, cualquiera de los dos gobiernos podrá darlo por terminado notificando al otro, por escrito, su decisión a este respecto con sesenta días de anticipación.
En vista de la nota de Vuestra Excelencia, fechada hoy, en la que se indica que los precedentes principios y procedimientos son aceptables para el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, el de los Estados

Dec. 4, 1943 , Apr. 19, 1944

63 STAT. ] MEXICO -ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH-

June 21, 1949

Unidos Mexicanos considera que la presente, junto con la ya mencionada, constituyen un acuerdo entre los dos gobiernos sobre esta materia, que se considerará en vigor desde el 1º de julio de 1948 .
Reitero a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta consideración .
RAFAEL DE LA COLINA

Excelentísimo Señor JAMES E. WEBB Secretario de Estado en Funciones

Embajador,

Washington, D. C.

2647

EMBASSY OF MEXICO 3146 MR. SECRETARY :

Translation WASHINGTON, D. C. , June 21 , 1949.

I have the honor to refer to the agreement between the United Mexican States and the United States of America regarding a cooperative program for anthropological research and investigation which was effected by an exchange of notes signed at Mexico , D. F. , on December 4, 1943 and April 19, 1944, and to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United Mexican States agrees to the continuance of the cooperative program of anthropological research and investigation in Mexico, which shall be carried on by the National Institute of Anthropology and History of the Ministry of Public Education on behalf of the Government of the United Mexican States and by the Smithsonian Institution on behalf of the Government of the United States of America, in accordance with the following principles and procedures :

Post, pp. 2649, 2652

1. General Provisions. The general objectives of the cooperative program of anthropological research and investigation shall be :
(a) To provide university and field training for students in anthropology, ethnology, linguistics , and related fields of scientific investigation ;
(b) To promote long-range cooperative programs of anthropological field research among the indigenous peoples of Mexico, designed to afford opportunities for student training in field work and to secure significant basic data for an understanding of the rural peoples of the Americas ;
(c) To assist in coordinating the efforts of collaborating scientists of the United Mexican States and the United States of America in conducting long-range studies in such fields of social science as may be mutually agreed upon, and to solicit the cooperation of such scientists in field work as the need for specialized research may require ;
(d ) To promote the development of anthropological and other social sciences in the United Mexican States by such other means and upon such other occasions as may be appropriate ;

2648

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
(e) To publish research findings under the auspices of the cooperating institutions in such forms and languages as may be mutually agreed upon.
2. Specific Undertakings on the Part of the Government of the United States of America. Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the Government of the United States of America agrees :
(a ) To make available to the Ministry of Public Education of the Government of the United Mexican States the services of one or more anthropologists or specialists in closely related fields of scientific investigation , with the understanding that they shall be stationed in Mexico , D. F. , to cooperate with the personnel of the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia ;
(b) To pay the salaries, living allowances, international travel expenses, expenses of travel within Mexico, and field expenses of the social scientists referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph ;
(c) To publish such portion of the results of the cooperative field work undertaken in accordance with the present agreement as may be mutually agreed upon ;
(d ) To communicate to the Government of the United Mexican States biographical and professional data concerning each social scientist proposed for assignment in accordance with the present agreement, with such assignments being contingent upon their acceptability to the Government of the United Mexican States.
3. Specific Undertakings on the Part of the Government of the United Mexican States . Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the Government of the United Mexican States agrees :
(a) To make available the services of the faculty of the National School of Anthropology and of its cooperating institutions for the training of students and to designate qualified students for both university and field training ;
(b) To furnish in Mexico, D. F., at the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia the necessary headquarters for training and research, including adequate office space, laboratories, equipment, classrooms, and other teaching facilities ;
(c ) To pay all the research expenses of Mexico professors and students during that period of each year which, by mutual agreement, shall be devoted to field studies ;
(d) To publish such portion of the results of the cooperative field work undertaken in accordance with the present agreement as may be mutually agreed upon ;
(e ) To provide entry free from customs duties for all personal effects, including clothing, household furnishings, books, and personal automobiles belonging to United States scientists assigned to Mexico in accordance with the present agreement or to members of their immediate families ;
(f) To provide entry free from customs duties for all scientific materials and supplies, including automobiles , belonging to the Government of the United States of America and destined for the pro-

Dec. 4, 1943, Apr. 19, 1944

63 STAT. ] MEXICO- ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH-

June 21, 1949

fessional use of the United States scientists assigned to Mexico in accordance with the present agreement.
4. Revisions. The present agreement may be revised , amended, or changed in whole or in part with the approval of both Governments, as embodied in and effected by an exchange of notes between the two Governments.
5. Term. The present agreement shall remain in force until June
30, 1953, and may be continued in effect for additional periods through written agreement to that effect by the two Governments ; but either Government may terminate the present agreement by giving to the other Government notice in writing ninety days in advance. If the Congress of either country should fail to make available the funds necessary for the execution of the present agreement, either Government may terminate the present agreement by giving to the other Government notice in writing sixty days in advance.

In view of Your Excellency's note, dated today, indicating that the foregoing principles and procedures are acceptable to the Government of the United States of America, the Government of the United Mexican States considers that this note, together with the note just mentioned above, constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, which shall be considered effective from July 1 , 1948.
I renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
RAFAEL DE LA COLINA Ambassador,
His Excellency JAMES E. WEBB Acting Secretary of State Washington, D. C.

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Minister of Foreign Relations

No. 2100 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA México, D. F., December 4, 1943

Pursuant to instructions from my Government and in accord with the desires of the Smithsonian Institution of Washington, D. C., to cooperate with the appropriate Mexican authorities and local organizations in the field of anthropological research, I have the honor to attach herewith a proposed Memorandum Agreement which sets forth the obligations that would be assumed by the Government of the United States through the Institute of Social Anthropology of the Smithsonian Institution, and by the Government of Mexico through the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia, with a view to obtaining acceptance by the Mexican Government. In the event that the Mexican authorities find the proposal to be acceptable, Your Excel-

2649

2650

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
lency's reply to that effect will complete the Agreement and it is not necessary that the Memorandum be signed.
The Smithsonian Institution is now prepared to carry out its obligation to detail a special anthropologist to Mexico to perform a part of the services contemplated by the proposed Agreement, and has selected for the assignment Dr. George M. Foster, Jr. Dr. Foster is 30 years of age and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in anthropology from Northwestern University which he obtained in 1935. He pursued post graduate studies in anthropology at the University of California and received a Doctor of Philosophy degree in anthropology from that institution in 1941 .
Dr. Foster has engaged in scientific expeditions involving studies of the ethnology of the Yuki Indians of California and the Popoluca Indians of Veracruz, Mexico . He has also traveled in Puerto Rico, China, Alaska, Japan and various European countries in connection with his studies. He was engaged as a Teaching Fellow at the University of California in 1937 ; Instructor in Sociology at Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York, in 1941-1942 ; Lecturer in Anthropology at the University of California, Los Angeles, California , in 1942-1943 ; Social Science Analyst, Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, Washington , D. C., from May to September, 1943, and is now serving on the staff of the Smithsonian Institution. Dr. Foster's scientific interests lie in studies of the culture and the culture changes of modern Indians, especially those of Mexico, in which connection he has published a number of scientific papers and monographs. He is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Anthropological Association , and the American Folklore Society.
It is hoped that Dr. Foster's name and qualifications may be found acceptable for the performance of the services contemplated.
Since the Smithsonian Institution desires that Dr. Foster, if found acceptable, begin his field research early in December and considering that it will be necessary for him to engage in certain organizational activities in Mexico City prior thereto, it would be appreciated if Your Excellency might express the views of the Mexican Government at the earliest possible date in order that I may inform my Government by cable.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH Enclosure :
MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT dated December 4, 1943
His Excellency Señor Licenciado EZEQUIEL PADILLA,
Minister of Foreign Relations of Mexico

Dec. 4, 1943, Apr. 19, 1944

63 STAT. ] MEXICO- ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH-

June 21, 1949

MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT

2651

Recent conversations between Dr. Julian H. Steward, Director of

the Institute of Social Anthropology of the Smithsonian Institution , Washington, D. C., and Dr. Alfonso Caso, Director of the Instituto

Nacional de Antropología e Historia of Mexico, and Dr. Daniel F. Rubin de la Borbolla , Director of the Escuela Nacional de Antro-

pología of Mexico, have disclosed a desire on the part of these agencies

to cooperate in the development of a program of anthropological

teaching and research in Mexico. Accordingly, the Government of

the United States of America, through the Smithsonian Institution ,

and the Government of the United Mexican States, through the

Escuela Nacional de Antropología of the Instituto Nacional de Antro-

pología e Historia, have agreed as follows :

It shall be the general objective of the said agencies -

General objective.

1. To cooperate in the training of research personnel of both the Training of research personnel.
United States and Mexico in the techniques of investigations in

social science, linguistics, and physical anthropology ;
Field research pro2. To cooperate in a long-range field research program among the gram among Tarascan

Tarascan and other Mexican Indians which will provide for student aInddiaontsh. er Mexican

training in field work and contribute basic data for an understanding

of the native peoples of the Americas, such program to be integrated

with the plan already developed and partly carried out by the

Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia and the University of California ; and
3. To publish research findings under such auspices and in such forms and languages as in the opinion of the Smithsonian Institu-

Publication of research findings.

tion and the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia will render them the most useful.
To that end, the Government of the United States, through the Smithsonian Institution, agrees -

Obligations of U.S.

(a) to make available the services of a social anthropologist ; a cultural geographer ; and a linguist or ethnologist ; (b) to pay the expenses of its employees while engaged in field research ; and

(c) to pay for the publication of a portion of the cooperative research.

The Government of the United Mexican States, through the Instituto

Obligations of United Mexican

Nacional de Antropología e Historia of the Ministry of Public Edu- States. cation agrees -

(a) to provide the services of the faculty of the Escuela Nacional de Antropología and its cooperating agencies, office space, laboratories, books, and teaching facilities ; and students for both university training and field research training ; (b) to pay the expenses of its participants while engaged in field research ; and (c ) to pay for the publication of a portion of the research results.

2652

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

All expenditures incurred by the Smithsonian Institution shall be

paid direct by that organization and all expenditures incident to the obligations assumed by the Government of the United Mexican States

shall be paid direct by that Government to the Instituto Nacional de

Antropología e Historia.

Effective date; du-

ration; termination.

This agreement shall come into effect on the day on which it is

accepted by the Government of the United Mexican States, and shall

continue in effect until June 30, 1948, or for an additional period if

mutually agreed upon in writing, unless the Congress of either country shall fail to make available the funds necessary for its execution in

which case it may be terminated on sixty days' advance written notice by the Government of either country.

MÉXICO , D. F., December 4, 1943.

The Mexican Minister of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO

53655

MÉXICO, D. F. , 19 de abril de 1944.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo la honra de referirme nuevamente a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia, número 2100, fechada el 4 de diciembre de 1943, con la cual se sirvió enviarme un memorandum que contiene las bases de un Convenio sobre Cooperación en investigaciones antropológicas que llevaran a cabo el Gobierno mexicano, por conducto del Instituto de Antropología e Historia, y el de los Estados Unidos de América, por conducto del Instituto de Antropología Social, dependiente del Instituto Smithsoniano.
Consultadas sobre este asunto las autoridades correspondientes , de acuerdo con su parecer, tengo la honra de comunicar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de México acepta el Convenio que tuvo a bien proponerle el de los Estados Unidos de América y lo considera celebrado por medio de esta nota y la de la Embajada a su digno cargo a que hice referencia.
Las autoridades mencionadas ya dieron las órdenes necesarias para que México empiece a cumplir los términos del Convenio.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
E. PADILLA Excelentísimo Señor GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Presente.

63 STAT. ] MEXICO-ANTHROPOLOGICAL RESEARCH- Dec. 4, 1943, Apr. 19, 1944 June 21, 1949

2653

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO
53655
MR. AMBASSADOR :

MÉXICO, D. F., April 19, 1944.

I have the honor to refer again to Your Excellency's courteous note, number 2100 , dated December 4, 1943, in which you were good enough to transmit to me a memorandum which contains the bases of an agreement on cooperation in anthropological investigations which will be carried out by the Mexican Government, through the Institute of Anthropology and History, and by the Government of the United States of America , through the Institute of Social Anthropology of the Smithsonian Institution.

The appropriate authorities having been consulted in this matter, I, in accordance with their wishes, have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Mexico accepts the Agreement which the Government of the United States of America was so good as to propose to it and considers it as being completed by this note and your Embassy's note to which I referred.
The above-mentioned authorities have already given the necessary instructions to the end that Mexico may begin to fulfill the terms of the Agreement.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

His Excellency GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH ,

E. PADILLA

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.

Ante, p. 2649.

2654

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

June 30, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1962]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting the economic fusion of American and British zones of occupation in Germany, further amending and extending the agreement of December 2, 1946, as amended and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington June 30, 1949 ; entered into force June 30, 1949 .

The Secretary of State to the British Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

June 30, 1949

Ante, p. 2630.

I have the honor to refer to the discussions which have taken place between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of the United States on the subject of the extension of the Agreement between the two Governments concerning the British and American Zones of Occupation in Germany.
By their exchange of notes of March 31 , 1949 the two Governments agreed to extend the Bizonal Fusion Agreement to June 30, 1949 , and to consult together before June 1 , 1949 to consider the terms and conditions of a new Agreement for a further period.
At the time of this exchange of notes it was thought that, prior to June 30, a German Government would be in existence, that the Occupation Statute would be in operation and that the Tripartite Agreement on Control Machinery, covering a substantial part of the field of Trizonal Fusion, would have come into force simultaneously with the Occupation Statute, thus rendering unnecessary a further extension of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement. Since these arrangements have not yet matured, the Government of the United States believes that the most practical arrangement is the extension for a further period of three months of such parts of the present Fusion Agreement as have not already been replaced by other agreements or arrangements.
I therefore have the honor to submit the following proposals for the consideration of the Government of the United Kingdom :

61 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 2475.
61 Stat. , Pt . 4 , p. 3608.
62 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 3645.
Ante, p. 2630.
U.K. contribution of supplies and services.

(A) The Fusion Agreement of December 2, 1946, as amended on December 17 , 1947 and as further amended by the exchange of notes of December 31 , 1948 and March 31 , 1949 shall, unless sooner terminated by mutual agreement or by the conclusion of a Trizonal Fusion Agreement, be extended until September 30, 1949 subject to the following amendments.
(B) During the period for which the existing Fusion Agreement is extended, the Government of the United Kingdom will continue their contribution of supplies and services to Ger-

63 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-ZONES IN GERMANY- JUNE 30, 1949

2655

many at the existing basic rate of 17-12 million pounds per annum ( approximately the equivalent of 70 million dollars ) . The type and value of specific categories of goods and services to be supplied by the Government of the United Kingdom will be agreed upon in separate discussions between the

United Kingdom and the Bizonal Area. Pending such agreement, the Government of the United Kingdom will supply appropriate quantities of the goods and services specified in the Annex to the Agreement of December 17, 1947, amending the Fusion Agreement. The Government of the United States will use its best endeavors to secure the full utilization

61 Stat . , Pt. 4, p. 3617.

by the Bizonal Area of the offer of supplies and services which the Government of the United Kingdom will make to fulfill

its obligation under this provision. If after the termination of the present agreement it should appear that the Government of the United Kingdom has not fully spent or committed the amount of the contribution envisaged, the two Governments will consult together for the purpose of seeking an acceptable method of settling the balance.

(C) Moneys made available by the Government of the United Kingdom for the supply of goods and services in accordance with paragraph (B ) of the exchange of notes of March 31

Ante, p. 2631.

last amending and extending the Revised Fusion Agreement will, to the extent that they have not been fully spent by

June 30, 1949, be used for the purchase of Category A sup-

plies and services for delivery after that date in accordance

with existing arrangements and procedures.

(D )

Upon the conclusion of a Payments Agreement between the United Kingdom and Western Germany, as envisaged in paragraph (A) of the exchange of notes of March 31, 1949, para-

Payments Agreement.
Ante, p. 2630.

graph 3 of the Agreement signed in Washington on December 17, 1947 shall terminate and its provisions shall be replaced by the Payments Agreement to be concluded between the Gov-

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 3610.

ernment of the United Kingdom and Western Germany. Until conclusion of such a Payments Agreement the figure of 1-2

million pounds in paragraph 3 ( 6 ) ( vi ) and (vii ) of the Agreement of December 17, 1947 will be increased to 7-1/2

million pounds , provided, however, that any credit for account

of unused drawing rights out of fiscal year 1948/49 will be excluded from a credit balance of the Bizonal Area for pur-

poses of calculating the excess which would necessitate payments in United States dollars.

Conversion of ster(E) The liability of the Government of the United Kingdom to linginto dollars.
convert sterling into dollars in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph ( b ) of paragraph 4 of the Agreement signed in Washington on December 17, 1947 shall be limited to the sterling held on July 1, 1949 in the No. 2 account of the Bank Deutscher Laender with the Bank of England, or due to 81939-52 - PT. III- -23

2656

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Availability of JEIA funds.
61 Stat ., Pt . 3 , p. 2475.

be paid into that account in fulfillment of arrangements concluded before July 1, 1949. During the period of the present agreement the sterling held in the No. 2 account of the Bank Deutscher Laender with the Bank of England will not be converted into dollars.
(F ) At the time of the liquidation of the Joint Export Import Agency as provided for in the charter of the Allied High Commission for Germany the capital funds of the Joint Export Import Agency, resulting from the capital contributions made by the Governments of the United States and United Kingdom in accordance with the Agreement of December 2, 1946, will be made available to the German Government for purposes of financing the foreign trade of Germany, provided, however, that the sterling assets of JEIA transferred under these arrangements will be blocked until June 30, 1950, or until agreement has been reached between the Governments of the United Kingdom and the United States as to how their release is to be effected, whichever date is the sooner.

Should these proposals commend themselves to the Government of the United Kingdom, I have the honor to suggest that this note and your reply should constitute an Agreement between our two Governments.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
For the Secretary of State : DEAN RUSK
His Excellency Sir OLIVER SHEWELL FRANKS, K.C.B. , C.B.E. , British Ambassador.

Ante, p. 2654. Ante, p. 2630.

The British Chargé d'Affaires to the Secretary of State

Ref. 39/62/49 No. 346

BRITISH EMBASSY, WASHINGTON, D. C. June 30th, 1949.

SIR, I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your note of today's
date, the terms of which are as follows :"I have the honor to refer to the discussions which have taken
place between the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of the United States on the subject of the extension of the Agreement between the two Governments concerning the British and American Zones of Occupation in Germany.
"By their exchange of notes of March 31, 1949 the two Governments agreed to extend the Bizonal Fusion Agreement to June 30, 1949, and to consult together before June 1 , 1949 to consider the terms and conditions of a new Agreement for a further period.

63 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- ZONES IN GERMANY-JUNE 30, 1949

2657

"At the time of this exchange of notes it was thought that, prior to June 30, a German Government would be in existence, that the

Occupation Statute would be in operation, and that the Tripartite

Agreement on Control Machinery, covering a substantial part of the field of Trizonal Fusion, would have come into force simul-

taneously with the Occupation Statute, thus rendering unnecessary a further extension of the Bizonal Fusion Agreement. Since these arrangements have not yet matured, the Government of the United

States believes that the most practical arrangement is the extension

for a further period of three months of such parts of the present Fusion Agreement as have not already been replaced by other agreements or arrangements.

"I therefore have the honor to submit the following proposals for

the consideration of the Government of the United Kingdom :

(A) The Fusion Agreement of December 2, 1946, as amended on December 17, 1947, and as further amended by the exchange of notes of December 31 , 1948 and March 31 , 1949 , shall , unless sooner terminated by mutual agreement or by the con-

61 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 2475.
61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 3608.
62 Stat . , Pt . 3 ,
p. 3645. Ante, p. 2630.

clusion of a Trizonal Fusion Agreement, be extended until

September 30 , 1949 subject to the following amendments.

(B) During the period for which the existing Fusion Agreement is extended, the Government of the United Kingdom will continue their contribution of supplies and services to Germany at the existing basic rate of 17-12 million pounds per annum (approximately the equivalent of 70 million dollars) .

The type and value of specific categories of goods and serv-

ices to be supplied by the Government of the United King-

dom will be agreed upon in separate discussions between the

United Kingdom and the Bizonal Area. Pending such

agreement, the Government of the United Kingdom will

supply appropriate quantities of the goods and services

specified in the Annex to the Agreement of December 17, 1947, amending the Fusion Agreement. The Government of the United States will use its best endeavors to secure

61 Stat. , Pt . 4, p. 3617.

the full utilization by the Bizonal Area of the offer of sup-

plies and services which the Government of the United

Kingdom will make to fulfill its obligation under this provision. If after the termination of the present agreement

it should appear that the Government of the United Kingdom has not fully spent or committed the amount of the contribution envisaged, the two Governments will consult together for the purpose of seeking an acceptable method of settling the balance.

(C) Moneys made available by the Government of the United Kingdom for the supply of goods and services in accordance with paragraph ( B) of the exchange of notes of March 31 last amending and extending the Revised Fusion Agreement will, to the extent that they have not been fully spent

Ante, p. 2631.

2658 Ante, p. 2630. 61 Stat. , Pt . 4,
p. 3610.
61 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 2475.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
by June 30, 1949, be used for the purchase of Category A supplies and services for delivery after that date in accordance with existing arrangements and procedures.
(D) Upon the conclusion of a Payments Agreement between the United Kingdom and Western Germany, as envisaged in paragraph ( A ) of the exchange of notes of March 31 , 1949, paragraph 3 of the Agreement signed in Washington on December 17, 1947 shall terminate and its provisions shall be replaced by the Payments Agreement to be concluded between the Government of the United Kingdom and Western Germany. Until conclusion of such a Payments Agreement the figure of 1-/21 million pounds in paragraph 3 ( 6) (vi) and ( vii ) of the Agreement of December 17, 1947 will be increased to 7-12 million pounds, provided, however, that any credit for account of unused drawing rights out of fiscal year 1948/49 will be excluded from a credit balance of the Bizonal Area for purposes of calculating the excess which would necessitate payments in United States dollars.
(E) The liability of the Government of the United Kingdom to convert sterling into dollars in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 4 of the Agreement signed in Washington on December 17, 1947 shall be limited to the sterling held on July 1, 1949 in the No. 2 account of the Bank Deutscher Laender with the Bank of England , or due to be paid into that account in fulfillment of arrangements concluded before July 1, 1949. During the period of the present agreement the sterling held in the No. 2 account of the Bank Deutscher Laender with the Bank of England will not be converted into dollars.
(F ) At the time of the liquidation of the Joint Export-Import Agency as provided for in the charter of the Allied High Commission for Germany the capital funds of the Joint Export-Import Agency, resulting from the capital contributions made by the Governments of the United States and United Kingdom in accordance with the Agreement of December 2, 1946, will be made available to the German Government for purposes of financing the foreign trade of Germany, provided, however, that the sterling assets of the Joint Export-Import Agency transferred under these arrangements will be blocked until June 30, 1950, or until agreement has been reached between the Governments of the United Kingdom and the United States as to how their release is to be effected, whichever date is the sooner.
"Should these proposals commend themselves to the Government of the United Kingdom, I have the honor to suggest that this note and your reply should constitute an Agreement between our two Governments. "

63 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- ZONES IN GERMANY- JUNE 30, 1949

In reply, I have the honour to inform you that His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom accept the proposals set forth in your note and, in accordance with the suggestion contained therein, your note and this reply shall be regarded as constituting an Agreement between our two Governments in this matter.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurance of my highest consideration,
FR HOYER-MILLAR.

The Honourable DEAN ACHESON,

Chargé d'Affaires.

Secretary of State, United States Department of State, Washington, D. C.

2659

2660

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

May 14, 16, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1963]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting the transfer of certain military reservations to the Philippines . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Manila May 14 and 16, 1949; entered into force May 16, 1949, operative retroactively March 27, 1949.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs

No. 0509

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Manila, May 14 , 1949.

EXCELLENCY :

48 Stat. 456. 48 U.S.C. § 1231 et seq. 58 Stat. 625.
124480 nUo.tSe.. C. § 12358,

I have the honor to refer to the Act of the Congress of the United States of America of March 24 , 1934 , more commonly referred to as the Philippine Independence Act ; to the Joint Resolution of the Congress of the United States of America of June 29 , 1944 , which

authorized the President of the United States of America to acquire

bases for the mutual protection of the United States and of the

Philippines ; to Joint Resolution No. 4 of the Congress of the Philippines, approved July 28, 1945 , which authorized the President of the

Philippines to enter into negotiations for the establishment of such

bases ; to the Treaty of General Relations (including the Protocol thereto) Between the United States of America and the Philippines

p.61117S4.tat . , Pt . 2 , signed on July 4, 1946 ; to the Agreement Between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines Concerning
p.64101S9.tat . , Pt . 4 , Military Bases signed at Manila on March 14 , 1947 ; and to other legislation and public acts of the United States of America and of the Philippines pertinent to the transfer to the Republic of the Philippines , following the declaration of its independence, of certain United States military bases the use of which was not reserved to the United States

by the aforementioned Agreement of March 14 , 1947 , or which have not otherwise been reserved , encumbered or disposed of, and to inform

Your Excellency that, in accordance with its obligations under the

aforesaid acts , resolutions and agreement, the Government of the

anRdeltriannsqfuerisohfmUe.nSt. United States of America relinquishes to the Government of the

military reservations. Philippines the use of, and transfers to that Government such right

Post, p. 2662.

and title to , or interest in, the United States military reservations listed in Annex 1 attached hereto , as the United States may have therein .

There is also annexed hereto a list of the available Executive Orders

Post, p. 2663.

and Torrens Certificates of Title whereunder the United States has

claimed title to and possession of the military reservations in the aforementioned Annex 1 attached hereto .

63 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY RESERVATIONS-MAY 14, 16, 1949

2661

The Government of the United States recognizes the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company as the lawful owner of certain buildings and installations at Camp Eldridge, Laguna . Therefore

Exception for buildings and installations
aLtaguCnaam. p Eldridge,

I desire to point out to Your Excellency that these particular installa-

tions are excepted from any of the provisions of this note concerning the turnover of installations and improvements on the military reservations listed in the aforementioned Annex 1 attached hereto .

Post, p. 2662.

I further desire to inform Your Excellency that the United States

Government assures the Philippine Government that it will make

no claims now or in the future against the Philippine Government

with a view to recovering funds expended in the acquisition of title

to the temporary bases and installations included in the military reser-

vations listed in the aforementioned Annex 1 attached hereto .

In hereby making final

and formal the transfer of the property

Assumption of responsibilityby Philip-

listed in Annex 1 attached hereto , the United States requests that the p1i9n49e.s as of Mar. 27,

Republic of the Philippines assume as of March 27 , 1949 all responsi-

bility, risk of loss , and liability for the care, custody, protection and

maintenance of said property, including liability for damage to per-

son or property sustained on or after March 27, 1949 as a result of

dangerous or defective conditions existing on or after that date, and

the Republic of the Philippines agrees to indemnify and hold harm-

less the United States, members of its armed forces and its civilian

employees from the aforesaid responsibility, risk of loss, and liability.
The United States makes no warranty of title to the property listed in Annex 1 attached hereto or of the condition of said property or
of its fitness for any other purpose. Limitation of trans-
In hereby making final and formal the transfer of the military fer.
reservations listed in Annex 1 attached hereto, the United States

also requests that the Republic of the Philippines agree that while

it is understood that the buildings and other improvements located thereon are transferred without charge against or reference to the

Surplus Property Agreement signed September 11 , 1946, [ ' ] this understanding relates only to the transfer of military reservations covered by this note .

I am authorized by my Government to state that an acknowledgment of the receipt of this note containing Your Excellency's as-

surances that the terms and conditions thereof are acceptable to

Your Excellency's Government will be considered by my Government

as constituting an agreement for the relinquishment to the Government of the Philippines of the use, and the transfer to that Govern-

ment of such right and title to , and possession of, the United States

military reservations listed in Annex 1 attached hereto , as the United

States may have therein, and as evidence that such relinquishment or transfer has been fully accomplished .

1 Not printed.

2662

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

THOMAS H. LOCKETT

Enclosures :

Charge d'Affaires a. i.

1. Annex 1- List of Properties to be Turned Over by the United States Government to the Philippine Government on March 26, 1949.

2. List of Executive Orders and Torrens Certificates of Title.

His Excellency ELPIDIO QUIRINO, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines.

Annex No. 1
List of Properties to be Turned Over by the United States Government to the Philippine Government on March 26 , 1949 .
1. Augur Barracks (Zettel Field) , Jolo , Sulu . 2. Calumpang Point Reservation , Cavite, Luzon . 3. Camp Bumpus, Tacloban, Leyte. 4. Camp Connell, Samar. 5. Camp Downes , Ormoc, Leyte . 6. Camp Eldridge, Los Banos, Laguna, Luzon. 7. Camp Gregg, Bayambang, Pangasinan , Luzon. 8. Camp Keithley (Maguire Field) , Dansalan, Mindanao . 9. Camp Overton, Iligan, Lanao , Mindanao . 10. Chromite Ore Deposit, Zambales , Luzon. 11. Cauayan Field, Cauayan, Isabela, Luzon . 12. Cuartel Meisic , Manila. 13. Fort San Pedro , Cebu, Cebu . 14. Fort San Pedro , Iloilo , Panay. 15. Ludlow Barracks, Parang, Cotabato, Mindanao . 16. Malabang Field (portion of Torrey Barracks) , Lanao , Mindanao .
17. Momungan Military Reservation, Momungan, Lanao, Mindanao .
18. Nozaleda Military Reservation , Calle Gral . Luna, Manila. 19. Sanborn Field (Sanborn) (Regan Barracks) , Daraga , Albay , Luzon . 20. Tagabiran Military Reservation, Catubig, Samar. 21. Warwick Barracks, Cebu , Cebu. 22. Wolfe Field, Zamboanga , Mindanao . 23. Nichols Field (all of parcel 1 and parcel 2 less approximately 350.60 acres , Fort William McKinley Reservation ) , Rizal, Luzon. 24. Cuartel de Espana, Intramuros, Manila, including Santa Lucia Barracks . 25. Fort Santiago , Manila. 26. Old Medical Supply Depot , Manila. 27. Old Sternberg General Hospital, Manila. 28. Cuartel de Infanteria , including Estado Mayor, Manila 29. Malate Barracks, Manila .

63 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES- MILITARY RESERVATIONS- MAY 14, 16, 1949 LIST OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS AND TITLES OF
PRE-WAR MIL. RES. TO BE RETURNED TO PHIL. GOVT.

1. Augur BARRACKS , Jolo, Jolo.

Executive Orders and Transfer Certificate of Titles for acquisition.

* Ex. Or. Nov. 10, 1904

* 66

May 17, 1905

* "" 66 Feb. 14 , 1913 No. 1703

* "" 66 May 28, 1929 No. 5129

TCT No. 19

* 66 No. 24

Executive Orders reverting portion of res. to Phil. Govt. and Letter placing the remaining portion under the control of the Phil. Govt.

Ex. Or . Sept. 23, 1924 No. 4077 " "" Nov. 18 , 1930 No. 5493

Letter dated Sept. 10 , 1917 .

ASTURIAS - Sub Post of Augur Barracks Executive Orders and Transfer Certificate of Titles for acquisi-
tion .

* Ex. Or. Nov. 10, 1904

* TCT No. 21

*

No. 23

Letter placing under the control of the Phil. Govt. Letter dated Sept. 10 , 1917. (Included in Augur Barracks)

2. CALUMPAN POINT, Maragondon, Cavite. Executive Orders for acquisition

* Ex. Or. April 11 , 1902 "" 66 Mar. 14, 1904
3. CAMP BUMPUS , Tacloban, Leyte.
Executive Orders and Transfer Certificate of Titles for acquisi tion .

* Ex. Or . Sept. 1 , 1903 TCT No. 23
No. 27
66 No. 28
No. 29
66 No. 30 "" No. 31 ""
No. 32
No. 33 66 No. 34
66 No. 35 "" No. 36 66 No. 37

81989-52- PT. III- -24

2663-

2664

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

4. CAMP CONNELL, Calbayog , Samar. Executive Order for acquisition * Ex. Or. Sept. 1 , 1903 * G. O. No. 201 Sept. 27 , 1907 (Technical description)
5. CAMP DOWNES , Ormoc, Leyte. Executive Orders and Transfer Certificate of Titles for acquisition.

* Ex. Or. Sept. 1 , 1903

* 66 66

Apr. 9 , 1907

* "6

July 26, 1913 No. 1806

TCT No. 10

66 No. 11

"" No. 46

Letter placing under the control of the Phil. Constabulary letter dated May 27, 1915.
6. CAMP ELDRIDGE, Los Banos , Laguna

Executive Orders and Transfer Certificate of Titles for acquisition .

* Ex. Or. Sept. 1 , 1903 * "" "L Dec. 6 , 1904
* " 66 Feb. 14, 1916 No. 2316
TCT No. 1
66 No. 9 "" No. 14 66 No. 19 "6 No. 18 "6 No. 288

7. CAMP GREGG , Bayambang , Pangasinan Executive Order for acquisition
* Ex. Or. Sept. 1 , 1903
8. CAMP KEITHLEY, Dansalan, Lanao Executive Orders for acquisition
* Ex. Or. Jan 19 , 1905 * "" "L
Sept. 26 , 1907
Letter placing under the control of the Phil . Govt. * Letter dated Sept. 10, 1917.
9. CAMP OVERTON, Iligan, Lanao
Executive Orders and Transfer Certificate of Titles for acquisition .
* Ex. Or. July 11 , 1903 * "" 66
Dec. 1 , 1908 *
Aug. 31 , 1912 - No. 1595 TCT No. 1189
"" No. 1190

Letter placing under the control of the Phil . Govt. *Letter dated Sept. 10 , 1917.
10. CHROMITE ORE DEPOSIT, Zambales . Executive Order for acquisition

Ex. Or. Aug 20, 1931 No. 5690

63 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES- MILITARY RESERVATIONS- MAY 14, 16, 1949

2665

11. CAUAYAN, Isabella Executive Order for acquisition Ex. Or. Jan. 5 , 1927.

12. CUARTEL MEISIC, Manila

Executive Order for acquisition

* Ex. Or. May 17 , 1905

13. FORT SAN PEDRO, Cebu , Cebu.

Executive Order for acquisition

* Ex. Or. Sept. 1 , 1903
* 66 66 June 17 , 1910

General Order Sept. 22 , 1905 No. 157

14. FORT SAN PEDRO , Iloilo, Panay

Executive Order & Transfer Certificate of Title for acquisition.

* Ex. Or. Oct. 10 , 1903
* 66 Sept. 18 , 1905

TCT No. 46

66 66 69

"6

93

"" "" 522

66 "" 523

66 66 524

525

Executive Order & Letter placing under the control of the Phil. Govt.
* Ex. Or . Oct. 3 , 1906 * Letter dated Sept. 10 , 1917.

15. LUDLOW BARRACKS, Parang, Cotabato

Executive Order & Transfer Certificate of Title for acquisition. * Ex. Or. Feb. 15 , 1904 "" Mar. 30, 1909
TCT No. 8 66 No. 7 "" No. 10
No. 11 66 No. 12
No. 18 "" No. 40

16. MALABANG FIELD, Lanao, Mindanao Executive Order for acquisition
Ex. Or. Mar. 20, 1930 No. 5308 17. MOMUNGAN, Lanao
Executive Order for acquisition * Ex. Or . Feb. 10, 1915 No. 2136 "" June 19, 1916 No. 2405
18. NOZAIEDA, Manila Executive Order for Acquisition * Ex. Or. Feb. 13, 1911

Executive Order placing portion of reservation under the control of the Phil. Govt. Ex. Or. April 15 , 1939

3CFR, Cum. Supp., p. 479.

2666

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
19. SANBORN FIELD, Albay . Executive Order for acquisition * Ex. Or. Dec. 19, 1927 No. 4787
20. TAGABIRAN, Catubig, Samar. Transfer Certificate of Title for acquisition TCT No. 11
21. WARWICK BARRACKS , Cebu , Cebu Executive Order for Acquisition * Ex. Or. Sept. 1 , 1903 Letter placing under the control of the Phil. Govt. * Letter dated Sept. 10, 1917
22. WOLFRE FIELD, Zamboanga Executive Order for acquisition * Ex. Or. May 28 , 1929 No. 5129
23. FORT Wm. MCKINLEY, Rizal General Order, Deed of Sale & Transfer Certificate of Title for acquisition * Gen Or. No. 104, Oct. 3 , 1902 Deed of Sale dated Aug 5, 1902 TCT No. 2288 Executive Order placing portion of Res. under control of the Phil. Govt. * Ex. Or. Feb. 20, 1917 No. 2534 Note No. 559, Dec. 23 , 1947 from American Ambassador United States Embassy to Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines .
24. OLD MEDICAL SUPPLY DEPOT, Manila Executive Order for acquisition and restoration to the Phil. Govt. Ex. Or . Feb. 13, 1911
25. STERNBERG GEN. HOSP . , Manila Executive Order for acquisition * Ex. Or . Feb. 13 , 1911
* Typewritten copies of Executive Orders and letters completed

Ante, p. 2660.

The Philippine Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

12388

MANILA, May 16, 1949

S'IR :

I am pleased to acknowledge the receipt of your note 509 [ ] of May 14, 1949 , and its enclosures, which note reads as follows:

"I have the honor to refer to the Act of the Congress of the United States of America of March 24 , 1934, more commonly re-

1 The correct number is "0509".

63 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-MILITARY RESERVATIONS- MAY 14, 16, 1949

2667

48 Stat. 456 ferred to as the Philippine Independence Act ; to the Joint Resolu- 48 U. S. C. § 1231
tion of the Congress of the United States of America of June 29 , seq. 58 Stat. 625.
1944 , which authorized the President of the United States of 48 U. S. C. §§ 12358,
America to acquire bases for the mutual protection of the United 1240 note.

States and of the Philippines ; to Joint Resolution No. 4 of the Congress of the Philippines, approved July 28 , 1945 , which authorized

the President of the Philippines to enter into negotiations for the
establishment of such bases ; to the Treaty of General Relations
(including the Protocol thereto ) Between the United States of 61 Stat. , Pt . 2,
America and the Philippines signed on July 4, 1946 ; to the Agree- p. 1174.

ment Between the United States of America and the Republic of
the Philippines Concerning Military Bases signed at Manila on 61 Stat. , Pt . 4,
March 14, 1947 ; and to other legislation and public acts of the p . 4019.
United States of America and of the Philippines pertinent to the

transfer to the Republic of the Philippines, following the declaration of its independence, of certain United States military bases the use of which was not reserved to the United States by the aforementioned Agreement of March 14 , 1947 , or which have not otherwise been reserved, encumbered or disposed of, and to inform Your Excellency that, in accordance with its obligations under the aforesaid acts, resolutions and agreement , the Government of the United States of America relinquishes to the Government of the Philippines the use of, and transfers to that Government such right and title to , or interest in, the United States military reservations listed in Annex 1 attached hereto , as the United States may have therein. There is also annexed hereto a list of the available Executive Orders and Torrens Certificates of Title whereunder the United

Ante, p . 2662. Ante, p. 2663.

States has claimed title to and possession of the military reservations in the aforementioned Annex 1 attached hereto .
"The Government of the United States recognizes the Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company as the lawful owner of certain buildings and installations at Camp Eldridge, Laguna . Therefore I desire to point out to Your Excellency that these particular installations are excepted from any of the provisions of this note concerning the turnover of installations and improvements on the military reservations listed in the aforementioned Annex 1 attached hereto.

"I further desire to inform Your Excellency that the United States Government assures the Philippine Government that it will make no claims now or in the future against the Philippine Government with a view to recovering funds expended in the acquisition of title to the temporary bases and installations included in the military reservations listed in the aforementioned Annex 1 attached hereto .

"In hereby making final and formal the transfer of the property listed in Annex 1 attached hereto, the United States requests that

the Republic of the Philippines assume as of March 27 , 1949 all responsibility, risk of loss, and liability for the care, custody , pro-

2668 Ante, p. 2662.
Ante, p. 2660.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
tection and maintenance of said property, including liability for damage to person or property sustained on or after March 27, 1949 as a result of dangerous or defective conditions existing on or after that date, and the Republic of the Philippines agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the United States, members of its armed forces and its civilian employees from the aforesaid responsibility, risk of loss, and liability. The United States makes no warranty of title to the property listed in Annex 1 attached hereto or of the condition of said property or of its fitness for any other purpose.
"In hereby making final and formal the transfer of the military reservations listed in Annex 1 attached hereto, the United States also requests that the Republic of the Philippines agree that while it is understood that the buildings and other improvements located thereon are transferred without charge against or reference to the Surplus Property Agreement signed September 11 , 1946 , this understanding relates only to the transfer of military reservations covered by this note.
"I am authorized by my Government to state that an acknowledgment of the receipt of this note containing Your Excellency's assurances that the terms and conditions thereof are acceptable to Your Excellency's Government will be considered by my Government as constituting an agreement for the relinquishment to the Government of the Philippines of the use, and the transfer to that Government of such right and title to , and possession of, the United States military reservations listed in Annex 1 attached hereto , as the United States may have therein, and as evidence that such relinquishment or transfer has been fuly accomplished.
"Accept , Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration." I am happy to inform you that an agreement in the sense described in the foregoing note is acceptable to the Government of the Philippines ; and that this Government agrees to consider the Embassy's note No. 509 of May 14 , 1949 , and its enclosures, together with the present reply thereto as constituting an agreement arrived at between our two Governments on the subject of relinquishment to the Government of the Philippines of the use ; and the transfer to that Government of such right and title to, and possession of, the United States military reservations listed in the enclosure Annex 1 , as the United States may have therein, and as evidence that such relinquishment or transfer has been fully accomplished , effective as of March 27 , 1949 . Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my high consideration.

The Honorable THOMAS H. LOCKETT Chargé d'Affaires, a.i. Embassy ofthe United States.

bee FELINO NERI Undersecretary

63 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES MILITARY RESERVATIONS -MAY 14, 16, 1949
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS 12428
MEMORANDUM

2669

On the understanding of the Philippine Government regarding its acceptance of paragraph five of the Embassy's Note No. 509 of May 14, 1949 concerning the relinquishment and transfer to the Republic of the Philippines of temporary quarters and installations listed in Annex No. 1 attached thereto.

Ante, p. 2661. Ante, p. 2662.

It is the understanding of the Philippine Government that acceptance of paragraph five of the Embassy's Note No. 509 of May 14, 1949 does not preclude said Government from seeking the consideration of the understanding enunciated therein with respect to future relinquishment or transfer of United States military installations . DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
Manila, May 16, 1949

2670

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

May 14, 16, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1967]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting the occupation by United States armed forces of temporary quarters and installations in the Philippines after March 26, 1949. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Manila May 14 and 16, 1949; entered into force May 16, 1949, operative retroactively from March 26, 1949.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs

No. 0510

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Manila, May 14, 1949.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Agreement Between the United

States of America and the Republic of the Philippines Concerning

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 4019.
p.641028S.tat., Pt . 4,

Military Bases signed at Manila on March 14, 1947 , and, in particular, to paragraph 1, Article XXI of that Agreement which , while it limits to a period of two years the term of occupancy by United

States armed forces of temporary quarters and installations existing

61 D. 4032Stat . , Pt . 4 , outside the bases mentioned in Annex A and Annex B, reserves for my . Government the right, if circumstances require , to negotiate with Your

Excellency's Government with a view to extending the right of United

States armed forces to continued occupation of temporary quarters and

installations beyond the date March 26, 1949 for such time as may be necessary for the completion of adequate facilities for United States

armed forces within the bases provided in the aforementioned

Agreement.

I desire to inform Your Excellency that, although the United States

Army has endeavored to concentrate its activities within Annex A

bases, delays in the construction program caused by difficulty in

obtaining certain critical construction items have made it necessary for

61 Stat. , Pt. 4, p. 4028.

the United States armed forces to continue the occupation of a number of temporary installations.
Therefore, in accordance with Article XXI, earlier referred to , my Government requests an extension of its right to occupy certain tem-

porary installations beyond the date March 26, 1949. A list of such installations is transmitted herewith as Annex 1.

The United States Government agrees that the continued occupancy

by its armed forces of the temporary quarters and installations enumerated in Section C of Annex 1 attached hereto will in no way prejudice

the rights of the several private owners of such tracts of land in their contractual relations with the United States Government.

I desire to inform Your Excellency further that certain other tem-

porary bases and installations occupied by the United States Army

63 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES QUARTERS FOR U.S. ARMED FORCES MAY 14, 16, 1949 2671

under the Bases Agreement and recently returned to Philippine ownership were not included in my note No. 0509 of this date because

Ante, p. 2660.

they did not exist on United States Government owned land , but

occupied leased or Philippine Government property. There still

remain in this category certain temporary quarters and installations

occupied by the United States Army which will have been made avail-

able for transfer to Your Excellency's Government on or before

March 26, 1949 in compliance with paragraph 1 , Article XXI of the

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 ,

Military Bases Agreement.

p. 4028.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

Enclosure :

THOMAS H. LOCKETT Charge d'Affaires a. i.

Annex 1 - List of Properties which the United States Government Wishes to Retain after March 26, 1949.

His Excellency ELPIDIO QUIRINO, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines.

Annex No. 1
List of Properties which the United States Government Wishes to Retain after March 26, 1949. A. Installations located on United States owned land :
1. Fort William McKinley ( parcels 3 and 4) . 2. Nichols Field Reserved Area (350.60 acres of parcel 2, Fort McKinley Reservation) . B. Installations located on Philippine Government owned land :
1. Diliman Housing Area, Quezon City, Rizal (to be retained as a military installation until such time as Palma Hall is completed and occupied by the AGRD for its records and offices) . C. Installations located on private property :
1. McKinley Housing Colony, Makati, Rizal . 2. Processing and Training Center Area ( former Manila Provost Marshal Command Area ) , Mandaluyong, Rizal. 3. Area at Highway 54 and Pasig Boulevard, to include the 505th Transportation Truck Battalion Bus Pool, the former Pasig Commissary Area, the former Adjutant General Printing Plant and Publications Depot Area, and the former 29th Engineer Base Topographical Battalion Area, Mandaluyong, Rizal.

2672

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
4. Signal Communications Plant and Distribution System (consists of communication cables crossing private and Philippine Republic property for which easements must be retained) .
5. WTA Transmitter Station, Tinajeros, Rizal . 6. UMP Relay Station, Santa Mesa Heights, Rizal. 7. WTA Receiver Station, Las Pinas, Rizal. 8. Quartermaster POL Depot, Malibay, Rizal. 9. 141st AACS Transmitter Station, near Fort Stotsenburg-Clark Air Force Base, Pampanga. 10. Headquarters MANED, and Fisher Apartments at F. B. Harrison and Fisher Avenue, Rizal City, Rizal. (Headquarters MANED building is property of Philippine Alien Property Administration. ) 11. Carabao Wallow, Highway 54, Malibay, Rizal.

The Philippine Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

Ante, p. 2670.

12389 SIR :

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
MANILA, May 16, 1949

I am pleased to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 510 [ ¹ ] of May 14, 1949, and its enclosure, which note reads as follows :

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 4019.
61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 4028.
61 Stat. , Pt . 4, p. 4032.

"I have the honor to refer to the Agreement Between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines Concerning Military Bases signed at Manila on March 14, 1947, and, in particular, to paragraph 1, Article XXI of that Agreement which, while it limits to a period of two years the term of occupancy by United States armed forces of temporary quarters and installations existing outside the bases mentioned in Annex A and Annex B, reserves for my Government the right, if circumstances require, to negotiate with Your Excellency's Government with a view to extending the right of United States armed forces to continued occupation of temporary quarters and installations beyond the date March 26, 1949 for such time as may be necessary for the completion of adequate facilities for United States armed forces within the bases provided in the aforementioned Agreement.
"I desire to inform Your Excellency that, although the United States Army has endeavored to concentrate its activities within Annex A bases , delays in the construction program caused by difficulty in obtaining certain critical construction items have made it necessary for the United States armed forces to continue the occupation of a number of temporary installations.
"Therefore, in accordance with Article XXI, earlier referred to, my Government requests an extension of its right to occupy certain

' The correct number is "0510".

63 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES QUARTERS FOR U.S. ARMED FORCES MAY 14, 16, 1949 2673

temporary installations beyond the date March 26, 1949. A list of such installations is transmitted herewith as Annex I.

Ante, p. 2671.

"The United States Government agrees that the continued occupancy by its armed forces of the temporary quarters and installations enumerated in Section C of Annex 1 attached hereto will in

no way prejudice the rights of the several private owners of such tracts of land in their contractual relations with the United States Government.

"I desire to inform Your Excellency further that certain other temporary bases and installations occupied by the United States

Army under the Bases Agreement and recently returned to Philippine ownership were not included in my note No. 0509 of this date because they did not exist on United States Government owned

Ante, p. 2660.

land, but occupied leased or Philippine Government property. There still remain in this category certain temporary quarters and

installations occupied by the United States Army which will have been made available for transfer to Your Excellency's Government

on or before March 26, 1949 in compliance with paragraph 1 , Article XXI of the Military Bases Agreement.
"Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. "

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 4028.

I am happy to inform you that an agreement in the sense described in the foregoing note is acceptable to the Government of the Philippines, and that this Government considers the Embassy's note No. 510 of May 14, 1949 and its enclosure, together with the present reply thereto as constituting an agreement arrived at between our two Governments in accordance with Article XXI of the Military Bases Agreement of March 14, 1947 on the subject of extension of the right of the United States armed forces to occupy certain temporary installations enumerated in the enclosure Annex 1 beyond the date March 26, 1949 for such time as may be necessary for the completion of adequate facilities for United States armed forces within the bases provided in the aforementioned Military Bases Agreement but shall in no case exceed a period of three years from March 26, 1949.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration.

Ante, p. 2670. Ante, p. 2671.

The Honorable THOMAS H. LOCKETT Chargé d'Affaires ad interim United States Embassy Manila

hel
Felino Neri Undersecretary

2674

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

January 17, 31 , 1919 IT. I. A. 8. 1969]

Agreement between the United States of America and Belgium modifying the agreement of June 6 and July 23, 1947, concerning American dead in World War II. Effected by exchange of notes dated at Brussels January 17 and 31 , 1949; entered into force January 31 , 1949.

The American Embassy to the Belgian Ministry for Foreign Affairs

No. 6

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Belgian Ministry for Foreign Affairs , and has the honor to refer to the Ministry's notes No. 55828 /Pr /Cim.Mil.Am . , of October 7 , 1948 , [1 ] and No. 55828/Pr/Cim. Mil.Am. , of December 22, 1948 , [ ] relating to the establishment and maintenance of United States military cemeteries and memorials in Belgium. The Embassy has noted the Belgian Government's agreement set forth in the above mentioned notes to the rewording of Article IV and to the addition of Article X to the Agreement concluded between the Government of the United States and the Belgian Government by the exchange of the p.6313552.Stat. , Pt. 4 , Embassy's note of June 6 and the Ministry's reply of July 23 , 1947 .
Articles IV and X now read as follows:
Article IV:
English text :
"The Government of the United States shall be permitted the use of railroads , highways , navigable waters , ports, port installations and buildings for office , warehouse , and billet purposes together with the necessary services and Belgian labor to the extent required for the accomplishment of the purpose of this Agreement subject only to conforming to the Belgian Social laws and paying the rates of compensation fixed by Belgian legislation or by collective agreements prepared by joint labor-management commissions." French text :

"Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pourra user des chemins de Fer, des routes , des voies navigables, des ports, des installations portuaires , des locaux à usage de bureau , d'entrepôt et de logement, et avoir recours aux services et à la main-d'oeuvre belge nécessaires, dans la mesure exigée par l'exécution des fins du présent accord , à la condition unique de se conformer aux lois sociales belges et de payer la rétribution aux taux fixés par la législation belge ou par les conventions collectives , élaborées par les commissions paritaires."

1 Not printed.

63 STAT. ] BELGIUM-AMERICAN DEAD IN WORLD WAR II-JAN. 17, 31, 1949
Article X (which does not entail any further obligations on the part of Belgium with respect to World War I American military cemeteries and memorials) :
English text:
"The provisions of this Agreement relative to the establishment, construction, improvement, and proper maintenance of permanent cemeteries and memorials are applicable to those of the war of 1914-1918 as well as to those of the war of 1939-1945 . " French text:
"Les dispositions du présent accord se rapportant à l'établissement, à la construction , à l'embellissement et à l'entretien des cimetières permanents et des monuments, sont applicables aussi bien à ceux de la guerre 1914-1918 qu'à ceux de la guerre 1939-1945 . "
The Embassy would appreciate receiving from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs an acknowledgement of this communication confirming the Ministry's agreement to the present texts of Articles IV and X as set forth above.
The Embassy takes this occasion to renew to the Ministry the assurances of its highest consideration .
BRUSSELS, January 17, 1949 DMACA
THE MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS, Brussels .

2675

The Belgian Ministry for Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES ET DU
COMMERCE EXTÉRIEUR
Direction Générale C. 2ème Bureau.
No 55828/Pr/Cim. Mil. Am.

BRUXELLES , le 31 Jan 1949

Le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères a l'honneur de porter à la connaissance de l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis d'Amérique à Bruxelles, comme suite à sa note du 17 janvier 1949 n° 6, que le gouvernement belge marque, par la présente, son accord définitif quant aux textes "ne varietur" des articles IV et X, tels qu'ils sont repris dans les notes du Département datées des 7 octobre et 22 décembre 1948 , ainsi que dans la note prérappelée de l'Ambassade.

2676

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Il résulte de cet accord que l'Arrangement conclu par lettres des 6 juin et 23 juillet 1947 a reçu sa forme entière et définitive.

STER

ANGEES

ETR

ET

LAKEN E DU N

VBAUNIT RESIE

AFFAIENLA

MINI

COMMERCEE BUITENLANDS

DES

HA ND EL

SOLO

dionills

ub   moito

AMBASSADE DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE à Bruxelles.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND FOREIGN TRADE
Office ofthe General Director C. 2nd Bureau No. 55828/Pr/Cim .Mil.Am.

BRUSSELS , January 31 , 1949

Ante, p. 2674.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor to inform the Embassy of the United States of America in Brussels, pursuant to its note No. 6 of January 17, 1949, that the Belgian Government hereby gives its final agreement with respect to the texts "ne varietur" of Articles

IV and X , as they appear in the Department's notes of October 7 and December 22, 1948, as well as in the Embassy's note referred to above.

61 p. 3352,Stat., Pt. 4,

It follows from this agreement that the arrangement concluded by the letters of June 6 and July 23, 1947 , has received its complete and definitive form .

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND FOREIGN TRADE

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Brussels .

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MONETARY GOLD- JULY 6, 1949

2677

Protocol between the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and Poland respecting restitution of monetary gold . Signed at London July 6, 1949; entered into force July 6, 1949.

July 6, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1970]

2678

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT. PROTOCOL

THE Governments of the United States of America, the French Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, hereinafter referred to as "the Allied Governments concerned," on the one hand, and the Government of Poland, on the other, have through the undersigned duly empowered representatives, agreed as follows :-

1. Poland shall receive a proportional share of the gold distributed

pursuant to Part III of the Agreement on Reparation from Germany,

on the Establishment of an Inter-Allied Reparation Agency and on the

61 p. 3157S. tat., Pt. 3,

Restitution of Monetary Gold signed at Paris on 14th January, 1946 , on the same basis as the countries signatory to the said Agreement to the extent that Poland can establish that a definite

amount of monetary gold belonging to it was looted by Germany, or, at

any time after 12th March , 1938 , was wrongfully removed into German

territory.

2. Poland adheres to the arrangement for the restitution of monep. 180stat ., Pt. 3, tary gold set forth in Part III of the aforementioned Agreement and
declares that the portion of the monetary gold accruing to it under the Agreement is accepted in full satisfaction of all Polish claims against Germany for restitution of monetary gold.

3. Poland accepts the arrangements which have been or will be made by the Allied Governments concerned for the implementation of the aforesaid arrangement.
Done in London this 6th day of July, 1949, in the English and French languages, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy which shall be deposited with the Government of the United Kingdom and of which certified copies shall be communicated to the other signatory Governments.
For the Government of the United States of America: J. C. HOLMES.
For the Government of the French Republic: R. MASSIGLI.
For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland: ERNEST BEVIN.
For the Government of Poland : JERZY MICHALOWSKI,

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- MONETARY GOLD-JULY 6, 1949
PROTOCOLE
LES Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de la République Française, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord, ci-après dénommés "Gouvernements alliés intéressés ," d'une part, et le Gouvernement polonais, d'autre part, sont, par l'entremise de leurs représentants soussignés dûment munis des pouvoirs nécessaires , convenus de ce qui suit:
1. Les Gouvernements alliés intéressés sont d'accord pour que la Pologne reçoive une part proportionnelle de l'or à répartir en application de la partie III de l'Accord concernant les Réparations à recevoir de l'Allemagne , l'institution d'une Agence interalliée des Réparations et la Restitution de l'Or monétaire, signé à Paris le 14 janvier 1946 , sur la même base que les pays signataires dudit accord dans la mesure où la Pologne pourra établir qu'une quantité déterminée d'or monétaire lui appartenant a fait l'objet de spoliations par l'Allemagne, ou , à une date quelconque après le 12 mars 1938, de transferts illégitimes en territoire allemand.
2. La Pologne donne son adhésion à l'arrangement concernant la restitution de l'or monétaire figurant à la partie III de l'accord mentionné ci-dessus et déclare que la quantité d'or monétaire lui revenant en vertu de l'accord est acceptée par elle en règlement complet de toutes les revendications polonaises contre l'Allemagne au titre des restitutions d'or monétaire.
3. La Pologne accepte les arrangements qui ont été ou seront faits par les Gouvernements alliés intéressés pour l'application dudit arrangement.
Fait à Londres en un seul exemplaire le 6 juillet 1949, en langues anglaise et française, les deux textes faisant également foi. Cet exemplaire sera conservé dans les archives du Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , qui en remettra des copies certifiées aux autres parties contractantes.
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique: J. C. HOLMES.
Pour le Gouvernement de la République Française : R. MASSIGLI.
Pour le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de GrandeBretagne et d'Irlande du Nord : ERNEST BEVIN .
Pour le Gouvernement Polonais: JERZY MICHALOWSKI.

Certified a true copy. [SEAL]
LONDON

S. H. GELLATLY
Deputy Librarian and Keeper of the Papers for the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.

2679

2680

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

July 27 and August 1, 1949
[T. I. A. S. 1971]

Agreement between the United States of America and Denmark respecting the exchange of official publications . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Copenhagen July 27 and August 1 , 1949: entered into force August 1 , 1949.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY

No. 235

Copenhagen, July 27, 1949

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have taken
place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and representatives of the Government of Denmark in

regard to the exchange of official publications, and to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America. agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :

1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended, without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.

2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the

Smithsonian Institution . The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Denmark shall be the Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux de Publications Scientifiques et Littéraires, the Royal Library.
3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of the Kingdom of Denmark by the Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux de Publications Scientifiques et Littéraires, the Royal Library.

4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a

public character, or confidential publications. 5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including
postal, rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement

63 STAT. ] DENMARK- EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS- July 27, 1949 Aug. 1, 1949
in connection with the transportation within its own country ofthe publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.
6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that the foregoing provisions are acceptable to the Government of Denmark, the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of your note in reply.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
EDWARD J. SPARKS Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
His Excellency GUSTAV RASMUSSEN , Minister for Foreign Affairs, Copenhagen.

The Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

UDENRIGSMINISTERIET.

P. J. III. Journal Nr. 101. D. 10. a.

COPENHAGEN, August 1 , 1949.
MONSIEUR LE CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES , With reference to your note of July 27, 1949, and to the conver-
sations between representatives of the Government of Denmark and representatives of the Government of the United States of America
in regard to the exchange of official publications, I have the honor to inform you that the Government of Denmark agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :
"1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended , without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.

2681

2682

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the Smithsonian Institution. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Denmark shall be the Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux de Publications Scientifiques et Littéraires, the Royal Library.
3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of the Kingdom of Denmark by the Institut Danois des Echanges Internationaux de Publications Scientifiques et Littéraires, the Royal Library.
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal, rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.
6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government. "
The Government of Denmark considers that your note and this reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of this note.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Monsieur le Chargé d'Affaires, the assurances of my high consideration.
For the Minister JENS RUDOLPH DAHL
Monsieur EDWARD J. SPARKS,
Chargé d'Affaires a. i., The Embassy of the United States of America, Copenhagen.

63 STAT. ] GREECE-TRAINING FOR U.S. MARINE UNITS-FEB. 11 , 21, 1949

2683

Agreement between the United States of America and Greece respecting training exercises for Marine units of the United States Fleet in the Mediterranean. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Athens February 11 and 21 , 1949; entered into force February 21 , 1949.

FebTr.uaI.rAy.11S,.2119,7129]49

The American Ambassador to the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 71

AMERICAN EMBASSY Athens, Greece, February 11 , 1949.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to inquire whether it would be agreeable to the Royal Hellenic Government to permit Marine units with the United States Fleet in the Mediterranean to carry out from time to time limited shore training exercises in Crete or in other Greek island localities mutually convenient to the competent American and Greek authorities and subject to ad hoc arrangements between these authorities. The purpose of such training would merely be to maintain the

proficiency and condition of the Marine officers and men involved who are at sea for prolonged periods. Units engaged in training would continue to be ship based so that no facilities would be established ashore. The training conducted would consist of practice marches, short tactical problems, and , where facilities are already available, small arms firing.

I also have the honor to ask whether the Royal Hellenic Government would be good enough to grant the United States Navy permission to use the uninhabited Greek island of Pondikonisi ( latitude 35-35

north, longitude 23-28 east ) , or similar, mutually convenient islands, for shore bombardment practices. The practices would include some flights over and some personal landings on the islands.
If the Royal Hellenic Government is agreeable to extending these facilities, it is proposed that this note and Your Excellency's reply to that effect shall constitute an agreement between our respective Governments.

Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration .

His Excellency CONSTANTINE TSALDARIS ,
Minister of Foreign Affairs, Athens.

HENRY F. GRADY

2684

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

The Greek Deputy Prime-Minister to the American Ambassador

THE DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER  

Conf. 1

ATHENS, February 21, 1949

YOUR EXCELLENCY,

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's letter No 71 of February 11th requesting the Royal Hellenic Government's consent for the supplying of certain training facilities to the United States Fleet in the Mediterranean.

I am authorized to inform Your Excellency that the Royal Hellenic Government, having noted the intended purpose and nature of the desired facilities and, more particularly, being anxious to avail themselves of every opportunity that would enable them to display their loyal adherence to the tradition of Greek-American friendship , are happy to agree to the proposals contained in Your Excellency's letter.
Please accept, your Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

H. E. the Honorable HENRY F. GRADY Embassy of the U.S.A. Athens.

ALEX N DIOMÈDE
Alex. N. Diomede Deputy Prime-Minister

63 STAT. ] IRAN- CULTURAL EXCHANGE COMMISSION-SEPT. 1, 1949

2685

Agreement between the United States of America and Iran respecting the United States Commission for Cultural Exchange with Iran . Signed at Tehran September 1 , 1949; entered into force September 1, 1949.

September 1 , 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1973]

Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Imperial Government of Iran for the use of funds received by the Government of the United States of America from the sale of surplus property in Iran.

The Government of the United States of America and the Imperial Government of Iran ;
Desiring to promote further mutual understanding between the peoples of the United States of America and Iran by a wider exchange of knowledge and professional talents through educational contacts ; and
Considering that Section 32 ( b ) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended by Public Law No. 584, 79th Congress, provides that the Secretary of State of the United States of America
may enter into an agreement with any foreign government for the use of currencies or credits for currencies of such foreign government acquired as a result of surplus property disposals for certain educational activities ; and
Considering that certain currencies of the Imperial Government of Iran have been received by the Government of the United States of America in payment for certain surplus war properties,
Have agreed as follows :

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S.C. app.
1641 (b) .

Article 1

There shall be established a commission to be known as The United Establishment.

States Commission for Cultural Exchange Between Iran and United States, which shall be recognized by the Government of the United States of America and the Imperial Government of Iran as an organization created and established to facilitate the administration of the

educational program to be financed by funds made available by the

Government of the United States of America as provided by Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended, under the terms of the present agreement.
Except as hereinafter provided, the Commission shall be exempt from the domestic and local laws of the United States of America

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1641 (b).
Exemption from U.S. domestic and local laws.

as they relate to the use and expenditure of the funds for the purposes

set forth in the present agreement. The funds and credits shall enjoy

the same treatment in Iran as is practiced with regard to properties

belonging to foreign governments. The funds made available by the Government of the United States

Use of U.S. funds.

of America, under the present agreement within the conditions and

2686

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

limitations hereinafter set forth, shall be used by the Commission or such other instrumentality as may be agreed upon by the Government of the United States of America and the Imperial Government of Iran for the following purposes :

1. Financing studies, research, instruction and other educational activities of the citizens of the United States of America in schools
and institutions of higher learning located in Iran or of the nationals of Iran in United States schools and institutions of higher learning located outside the continental United States, Hawaii, Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands) , Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, including payment for transporation, tuition , maintenance and other expenses, incident to scholastic activities ; or
2. Furnishing transportation for nationals of Iran who desire to attend United States schools and institutions of higher learning in the continental United States, Hawaii, Alaska ( including the Aleutian Islands) , Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and whose attendance will not deprive citizens of the United States of America of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions.

Article 2

Exercise of powers.

In furtherance of the aforementioned purposes the Commission may, subject to the provisions of the present agreement, exercise all powers necessary to the carrying out of the purposes of this agreement, including the following :

1. Authorize the Treasurer of the Commission or such other person as the Commission may designate to open and operate bank accounts in the Bank Melli Iran in the name of the Commission. The appointment of the Treasurer or such designee shall be approved by the Secretary of the United States of America.
2. Authorize the disbursement of funds and the making of grants, of funds for the approved purposes of this agreement.

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. O. app. 1641 (b).

3. Plan, adopt and carry out programs in accordance with the purpose of Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended .
4. Recommend to the Board of Foreign Scholarships, provided for in the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended, stu-

dents, professors, research scholars resident in Iran, and institutions of Iran qualified to participate in the programs in accordance with aforesaid act.

5. Recommend to the aforesaid Board of Foreign Scholarships such

qualifications for the selection of participants in the programs as it

may deem necessary for achieving the purpose and objectives of this agreement .
6. Provide for periodic audits of the accounts of the Commission as directed by the auditors selected by the Secretary of State of the United States of America.

7. Engage an Executive Officer, administrative and clerical staff, fix and pay the salaries and wages thereof.

63 STAT. ] IRAN-CULTURAL EXCHANGE COMMISSION- SEPT. 1, 1949

2687

Article 3
All commitments, obligations and expenditures authorized by the Commission shall be made pursuant to an annual budget to be approved by the Secretary of State of the United States of America pursuant to such regulations as he may prescribe.
Article 4
The Commission shall consist of six members three of whom shall be citizens of Iran and the other three citizens of the United States of America, and they shall serve one year, and shall be eligible for reappointment. The Ambassador of the United States of America in Iran or his representative shall be honorary chairman of the board. He shall have the power of appointment and removal of the American members, and may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie. The Iranian members on the Commission shall be appointed and designated by the Iranian Ministry of Education. A chairman with voting power shall be selected by the Commission from among its members. The members shall serve without compensation but the Commission may authorize the payment of the necessary expenses of the members in attending the meetings of the Commission. Vacancies created by reason of transfer, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
Article 5
The Commission shall adopt such rules and appoint such committees as it shall be deemed necessary for the conduct of its affairs.
Article 6
Reports, prepared in a form and with a content which conform to the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of State of the United States of America, shall be submitted annually on the activities of the Commission, to the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
Article 7
The principal office of the Commission shall be in Tehran but meetings of the Commission and any of its committees may be held in such other places as the Commission may from time to time determine and the activities of any of the Commission's officers or staff may be carried on at such places as may be approved by the Commission.
Article 8
The Government of the United States of America shall, within 30 days of the date of the signature of the present agreement, place at the disposal of the Commission for purposes of the present agreement ten million (10,000,000) rials in the Bank Melli . The Secretary of State of the United States of America will make available for expenditure, as authorized by the Commission , the Iranian rials so deposited or to be deposited hereafter, in accordance with the limitation pursuant to Article 3 of the present agreement.
81939-52- PT. III- -25

Annual budget.
Membership . Honorarychairman . Chairman. Expenses . Vacancies. Rules; committees . Annual reports.
Places of meetings.
U.S. funds.

2688

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Article 9

Secretary of State of

U.S., etc.

Whenever in the present agreement the term Secretary of State of

the United States of America is used, it shall be understood to mean

the Secretary of State of the United States of America or any officer

or employee of the Government of the United States of America desig-

nated by him to act in his behalf.

Amendment.

Article 10
The present agreement may be amended by the exchange of diplomatic notes between the Government of the United States of America and the Imperial Government of Iran.

Article 11

Cooperative opera-

tion.

The Government of the United States of America and the Imperial

Government of Iran shall make every effort to facilitate the carrying

out of the present agreement and to resolve the problems which may arise in the operations thereof.

Entry into force.

Article 12
The present agreement shall come into force upon the date of signature.

Authentic texts.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned plenipotentiaries, being duly authorized by their respective Governments have signed the present agreement and affixed thereto their seals.
DONE this first day of September nineteen hundred and forty-nine, in duplicate at Tehran, in the English and Persian languages, both texts being equally authentic.

For the United States Government. JOHN C. WILEY
John C. Wiley, Ambassador of the United States of America.
ST AT ES

For the Imperial Government of Iran.
A. A. HEKMAT
Ali Asghar Hekmat,
Minister of Foreign Affairs.
I P E S

OF SS CLSAHE
D E S

TRARGURES

TEHRAN

1 6/

IPA

           :                                                                

       (

)      

  

(  )      

     

              

             

         

                     
 

63 STAT. ] IRAN-CULTURAL EXCHANGE COMMISSION- SEPT. 1, 1949

2689

      .            

                                     
-              



     .                        
              

        .            

                         

     .

     

      

 

            (  )             (          )   

          

 

2690

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

  


-{ 

          .

 

         

            

           

       -          

( )

     .             
    .             

          

 -           .



  :

    .              

           



 ( )   .              -                     
              

-

-



63 STAT. ] IRAN- CULTURAL EXCHANGE COMMISSION- SEPT. 1, 1949

2691

 
·  ·

     -                                                             .                                                           .              
 ( )            :               
 ( )     .
                   .
                     .                        

2692

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

 


             :( )
           .              "      "   

  .

 ( )

           ( )              

         

             

            

  

 ( )  .                                    

 ( )    .                     
 ( )                

 : (  )          .

63 STAT. ] IRAN- CULTURAL EXCHANGE COMMISSION- SEPT. 1, 1949

2693

EFI C
STRANGERES

Wil WAMED
TEHRAN

R E
O R D

       

      

   

   .

        (

)  



              

           



         .
( )    .                          
 ( )        .

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT. 

2694

83 STAT.] VENEZUELA-HEALTH AND SANITATION- MAR. 4, 9, 1949

2695

Agreement between the United States of America and Venezuela respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Venezuela , extending and modifying the agreement of February 18, 1943, as extended and modified. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Caracas March 4 and 9, 1949; entered into force March 9, 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1948.

March 4, 9, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1974]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Venezuelan Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 383

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Caracas , Venezuela , March 4, 1949

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to the agreement signed February 18 , 1949
between the Minister of Health and Social Assistance of the United
States of Venezuela and the Chief of the Field Party of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the United States of America extending further the Basic Agreement , as amended , between the United States of Venezuela and the United States of America, arising out of the exchange of notes between His Excellency the Minister of Foreign Relations of Venezuela and the Ambassador of the United States of America to Venezuela on February 18 , 1943 , which provided for 57 Stat. 1126; 58 Stat.
1446; 61 Stat., Pt. 3, the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative health and P.P3o2s7t1,. p. 2781. sanitation program in Venezuela .
The text of this agreement follows : Proposed extension
"The Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (hereinafter and modification. referred to as the ' Ministry ') of the Government of the United States of Venezuela (hereinafter referred to as the ' Government') , represented by Dr. Antonio Martin Araujo , Minister of Health and Social Assistance (hereinafter referred to as the ' Minister') , and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the ' Institute' ) , a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America, represented by its Chief of Field Party , Health and Sanitation Division , James D. Caldwell (hereinafter referred to as the ' Chief of Field Party') , have agreed , pursuant to the request of the Government, and in accordance with the exchange of notes dated June 29, 1948 and July 6 , 1948 [ '] between the Ambassador of the United States of America and His Excellency, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, upon the following details for extending for an additional period of one year from June 30, 1948 , and modifying in the manner hereinafter set forth, the Agreement between the Ministry and the Institute arising out of the exchange of notes between the American Ambassador and the Minister of

Foreign Affairs on February 18 , 1943 , as subsequently modified

1 Not printed. 81939-52- PT. III- -26

2696 57 Stat. 1126; 58 Stat.
1446; 61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3271.
Availability of funds.
Funds made available by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
Funds made available by Venezuela.
Ministry funds.
Amendment of deposit schedules.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

and extended (hereinafter referred to as the ' Basic Agreement ') , providing for a cooperative health and sanitation program to be carried on in Venezuela .
" 1. In addition to the funds required by the Basic Agreement to be contributed or otherwise made available for the realization
of the Cooperative Program, the Parties hereto shall contribute and make available funds for use in continuing the program during the period covered by this Extension Agreement in accordance with the following schedule :

"a) The Institute of Inter-American Affairs shall make available the funds necessary to pay the salaries and all other expenses of its field staff in Venezuela during the period covered by this Extension Agreement . These funds shall be administered by the Institute and shall not be deposited to the credit of the Oficina Cooperativa Inter-Americana de Salud Publica.

"b) The Institute shall deposit to the credit of the Oficina

Cooperativa the sum of $25,000.00 or its equivalent in bolivars

(which at the exchange rate of 3.33 bolivars to $ 1.00 equals Bs 83,250.00) as follows :

At the time agreement is signed . .

$25,000.00

"c) The Government of Venezuela shall deposit to the credit of the Oficina Cooperative the sum of 1,612.500 bolivars (which at the exchange rate of 3.33 bolivars to $ 1.00 equals $487,237.23) as follows:

At the time the agreement is signed . . . . Bs 832 , 500.00

Monthly payments of 40,000 bolivars for

Oficina payrolls travel and other expenses

July 1 , 1948-June 30, 1949 ..

·

Monthly payments of 25,000 bolivars for

salaries of Oficina employees July 1 ,

1948-June 30 , 1949

··

Bs 480. 000. 00 Bs 300, 000. 00

In addition to the above, the Ministry agrees to provide funds amounting to approximately 1,000,000.00 bolivars (which at the exchange rate of 3.33 bolivars to $ 1.00 equals $ 303,030.30) which will be made available during the period between September 1 , 1948 and June 30 , 1949 to be utilized exclusively for the purchase of materials and equipment for use in the Cooperative Program. These purchases will be made through the corresponding department of the Ministry on the basis of requisitions prepared by the Oficina.
"d) The funds to be deposited by the Institute under subsection b) of this clause shall be available for expenditure from the date on which deposited but all payments to be thereafter deposited by either party shall not be available for withdrawal or expenditure until the corresponding deposit due from the other party on the same date has been made.

"2. By written agreement of the Minister of Health and Social Assistance and the Chief of the Field Party in Venezuela , the parties hereto may amend the schedules for making deposits required by

63 STAT. ] VENEZUELA-HEALTH AND SANITATION-MAR. 4, 9, 1949

2697

Clause 1 hereof and may provide for advance purchases of equipment or materials , and the advance purchases made in this respect shall be deducted from the payments due under the schedules . In

addition to the funds required to be contributed by the Basic Additional contri-
Agreement and this Extension Agreement, contributions of funds butions.

may be made by either or both parties, or by third parties for use in

effectuating the cooperative health and sanitation program. "3. Any of the funds introduced into Venezuela by the Institute
for the purpose of the cooperative health and sanitation program shall be exempt from all forms of charges or taxes and currency control , and shall be converted into bolivars at the then current rate of exchange, but in any event at a rate of exchange not less than 3.33 bolivars per dollar. Similarly, where it may be necessary

Exemption from charges, taxes, etc.

to convert bolivars into dollars for the financing of grants or for other expenditures in the United States of America, the conversion of bolivars into dollars shall be made at a rate of exchange not greater

than 3.33 bolivars per dollar.

"4. The Government of Venezuela recognizes the Institute of

Inter-American Affairs as a dependency of the Government of the

United States of America, wholly owned and directed by that Government .
"5. Any funds received by the Oficina which remain unexpended

Unexpended funds.

or unassigned at the termination of the period covered by this Extension Agreement , shall be returned to the Parties hereto in the

proportion of the respective contributions made by the parties under the Basic Agreement and under clause 1 of this Extension Agreement.
"6. The stipulations of the Basic Agreement and the successive

57[Stat. 1126. Duration.

Extension Agreements shall remain in effect in so far as they are not

directly or indirectly contrary to that established in this present Agreement .
"7. The Government undertakes to initiate the action necessary

to put into effect the terms of this Extension Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Exten-

sion Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives, in quintuplicate, in the Spanish and English languages , in Caracas, Venezuela , this 18 day of February, 1949."

MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE

THE INSTITUTE OF INTERAMERICAN AFFAIRS

By (s) ANTONIO M. ARAUJO (t) Antonio Martin Araujo Minister

By (s) JAMES D. CALDWELL (t) James D. Caldwell Chief of Field Party

I take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America has agreed that this note and your reply in the same terms shall constitute a ratification and confirmation by the Governments of the United States of Venezuela and of the United States of America of the agreement signed between the

2698

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
Minister of Health and Social Assistance and the Chief of the Field Party.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JOHN WILLARD CARRIGAN
His Excellency Dr. LUIS EMILIO GOMEZ RUIZ, Minister of Foreign Relations, Caracas.

The Venezuelan Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES
DIRECCION DE POLITICA INTERNACIONAL SECCION DE RELACIONES INTERAMERICANAS

No. 485

CARACAS , 9 de marzo de 1.949

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS :

Tengo a honra avisar el recibo de la atenta nota de Vuestra Señoría , número 383 , de fecha 4 de los corrientes , referente al Acuerdo firmado el 18 de febrero último , entre el Ministro de Sanidad y Asistencia Social de los Estados Unidos de Venezuela y el Jefe de la Misión del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos de los Estados Unidos de

América, destinado a prorrogar nuevamente el Modus-vivendi inicial , con las enmiendas de que fué objeto , celebrado por cambio de notas entre el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores de Venezuela y el Exce-

lentísimo Señor Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América, de fecha 18 de febrero de 1.943 , sobre iniciación y ejecución del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento que se desarrolla en Venezuela .
El texto de dicho Acuerdo es el siguiente:

"El Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social (que en adelante se llamará el "Ministerio " ) del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Venezuela (que en adelante se llamará el "Gobierno " ) , representado por el doctor Antonio Martín Araujo , Ministro de Sanidad y Asistencia Social (que en adelante se llamará "el Ministro " ) y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos (que en adelante se llamará " el Instituto " ) , una dependencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, representado por el señor James D. Caldwell, Jefe de la Misión de la División de Salud y Saneamiento, (que en adelante se llamará el "Jefe de la Misión " ) , han convenido , según los deseos del Gobierno y de acuerdo con un intercambio de notas fechadas el 29 de junio de 1948 y el 6 de julio de 1948 entre el Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América y Su Excelencia, el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores ; en los siguientes detalles para prorrogar por un período adicional de una año , a partir del 30 de junio de 1948, y modificar en la forma que más adelante se especifica , el Modus-vivendi entre el Ministerio y el

63 STAT. ] VENEZUELA-HEALTH AND SANITATION-MAR. 4, 9, 1949

Instituto, efectuado por medio del intercambio de notas entre el Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América y el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores fechado el 18 de febrero de 1943 , como fué subsecuentemente modificado y prorrogado , (que en adelante se llamará el "Modus-vivendi inicial") , para desarrollar un programa cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento que se llevará a cabo en Venezuela .

Primera: Además de los fondos requeridos por el Modus-vivendi inicial, que sean aportados o que en cualquier forma estén disponibles para la realización del Programa Cooperativo, las Partes Contratantes contribuirán con fondos que estarán a su disposición para continuar el desarrollo del Programa durante el período que se estipula en este acuerdo de prórroga, del modo siguiente :

a) El Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos aportará los fondos necesarios para el pago de los salarios y demás gastos del personal de la Misión en Venezuela, durante el lapso de esta prórroga. La administración de estos fondos estará a cargo del Instituto y no serán incluídos en la cuenta de la Oficina Cooperativa de Salud Pública.
b) El Instituto depositará a favor de la Oficina Cooperativa la cantidad de $25.000,00 o su equivalente en bolívares (que al tipo de cambio de Bs 3,33 por $ 1,00 equivalen a Bs 83.250,00 ) , en la siguiente forma :

Al firmarse el acuerdo .

$25.000,00

c) El Gobierno de Venezuela depositará a la cuenta de la Oficina

Cooperativa, la cantidad de Bs 1.612,500,00 ( que al tipo de cambio de

Bs 3, 33 por $ 1,00 , equivalen a $487.237,23 ) en la siguiente forma:

Al firmarse el Acuerdo ...

Bs 832.500,00

Pagos mensuales de Bs 40.000,00 para cubrir los

salarios de obreros , viáticos y otros gastos de la Oficina,

desde el 1º de Julio de 1948 hasta el 30 de Junio de

1949 ..

Bs 480.000,00

Pagos mensuales de Bs 25.000,00 para cubrir salarios

de los empleados de la Oficina, desde el 1º de Julio de

1948 hasta el 30 de Junio de 1949 ·

· · Bs 300.000,00

Además de lo anotado , el Ministerio conviene en proveer un fondo

de aproximadamente Bs 1.000.000,00 (que al tipo de cambio de Bs 3,33 por $ 1.00 equivalen a $303.030,30 ) que serán suministrados durante el período comprendido entre el 1 ° de setiembre de 1948 y el 30 de junio de 1949 , para ser utilizados exclusivamente en la compra de materiales y equipos que se usarán en el Programa Cooperativo. Estas compras serán efectuadas por medio del órgano correspondiente del Ministerio y a base de solicitudes preparadas por la Oficina.

d) Los fondos que depositare el Instituto de acuerdo con el párrafo b) de esta cláusula podrán ser invertidos para gastos desde la misma fecha en que se haga la entrega, pero las contribuciones subsiguientes, que se efectúen por cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes , no estarán disponibles para retirarlos o gastarlos hasta tanto no se haya hecho la correspondiente entrega por la otra Parte Contratante.

2699

2700

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Segunda: Mediante convenio firmado por el Ministro de Sanidad y Asistencia Social y por el Jefe de la Misión en Venezuela , las Partes Contratantes podrán modificar la forma de hacer las entregas previstas en la Cláusula Primera y asimismo hacer anticipos para compra de equipos o materiales, y los adelantos que se hagan por este respecto se deducirán de los fondos que se deben depositar. Además de los fondos estipulados en el Modus-vivendi inicial y en este acuerdo de prórroga también podrá haber otras contribuciones de las Partes Contratantes o de terceros , utilizables en ambos casos para la realización del Programa Cooperativo de Salud Pública.
Tercera: Los fondos que sean trasladados a Venezuela por el Instituto , para ser invertidos en el desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo, quedarán exentos de toda clase de cargos o impuestos y restricciones monetarias, y deberán convertirse en bolívares al tipo de cambio vigente, y en ningún caso este tipo de cambio será menor de Bs 3.33 por dólar. Igualmente cuando sea necesario convertir bolívares en dólares para financiar compras o para otros gastos en los Estados Unidos, la conversión de Bs en dólares debe hacerse a un tipo de cambió no mayor de Bs 3.33 por dólar.
Cuarta : El Gobierno de Venezuela reconoce al Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos como una dependencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , perteneciente a él y bajo su dirección.
Quinta: Toda suma adquirida por la Oficina, que no haya sido utilizada o asignada en el período indicado en esta prórroga , será devuelta a las Partes Contratantes en proporción a las contribuciones que cada una haya hecho de acuerdo con el Modus-vivendi inicial y con la Cláusula Primera de este acuerdo de extensión .
Sexta: Las estipulaciones del Modus-vivendi original y de los sucesivos acuerdos de prórroga permanecerán en vigor en cuanto no sean contrarias directa o indirectamente a lo establecido en el presente convenio .
Séptima: El Gobierno se compromete a iniciar la acción necesaria para efectuar las estipulaciones de este convenio de extensión.

EN FE DE LO CUAL, las Partes Contratantes han hecho que sus representantes debidamente autorizados suscriban este Convenio de Ex-
tensión por quintuplicado , en los idiomas Español e Inglés, en Caracas, Venezuela, a los 18 días del mes de febrero de 1949 .

Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social

Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos

(fdo . ) ANTONIO MARTIN ARAUJO Antonio Martin Araujo Ministro

(fdo . ) JAMES D. CALDWELL James D. Caldwell Jefe de la Misión"

La nota de Vuestra Señoría , que contiene las estipulaciones anteriores, y esta respuesta , constituyen un Acuerdo con respecto a la prórroga del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento.

63 STAT. ] VENEZUELA- HEALTH AND SANITATION-MAR. 4, 9, 1949
Válgome de la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Señoría las seguridades de mi distinguida consideración .
LUIS E. GÓMEZ RUIZ
Al Honorable Señor JOHN WILLARD CARRIGAN, Encargado de Negocios ad-interim de los Estados Unidos de América. Presente.

2701

Translation

UNITED STATES OF VENEZUELA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL POLICY INTER-AMERICAN SECTION
No. 485
MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

CARACAS, March 9, 1949

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note No. 383 , dated the 4th instant, regarding the agreement signed last February 18 by the Minister of Health and Social Assistance of the United States of Venezuela and the Chief of Field Party of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the United States of America, for the purpose of again prolonging the original modus vivendi, with amendments, on the initiation and execution of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program being carried out in Venezuela, which was concluded through an exchange of notes between the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Venezuela and His Excellency the Ambassador of the United States of America on February 18, 1943 .
The text of the aforementioned Agreement is as follows:

Ante, p. 2695. 57 Stat. 1126.

[For the English language text of this agreement, see p . 2695. ]

Your Excellency's note, which contains the above-mentioned provisions, and this reply, constitute an Agreement regarding the extension of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
LUIS E. GÓMEZ RUIZ

The Honorable JOHN WILLARD CARRIGAN, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America, City.

2702

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

June 27, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1975]

Agreement between the United States of America and China, extending
and modifying the agreement of August 5, 1948, respecting a Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China. Effected by exchange
of notes signed at Canton June 27, 1949; entered into force June 27, 1949.

The American Minister to the Chinese Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 262

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Canton, June 27, 1949

EXCELLENCY :

p.632139.Stat., Pt. 3,

I have the honor to refer to the Agreement between our two Governments constituted by the exchange of notes dated August 5, 1948 ,
providing for the establishment of a Sino- American Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China.

My Government proposes that the Agreement be extended until the date of termination of the Economic Aid Agreement between our

p.622945.Stat., Pt. 3, p.61259. Stat., Pt. 1, $ 125246U..S.O. Supp. II, p.6535. Stat., Pt. 1,

two Governments concluded July 3, 1948 , and that references in the exchange of notes to Section 407 of the China Aid Act of 1948 be deemed to include reference to Section 12 of Public Law 47, 81st Congress.
This note and Your Excellency's reply accepting the above proposal will constitute an agreement between our two Governments.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

LEWIS CLARK

His Excellency Dr. GEORGE YEH, Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, Canton.

63 STAT. ] CHINA- RURAL RECONSTRUCTION JUNE 27, 1949 The Chinese Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American
Minister


2703

The Ministry ofForeign Affairs

Republic of China

CANTON, June 27, 1949

EXCELLENCY , I have the honor to acknowlege receipt of Your Excellency's Note
reading as follows :

"I have the honor to refer to the Agreement between our two Governments constituted by the exchange of notes dated August 5, 1948, providing for the establishment of a Sino-American Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China.

62 Stat . , p. 3139.

Pt . 3,

"My Government proposes that the Agreement be extended until the date of termination of the Economic Aid Agreement between
our two Governments concluded July 3, 1948, and that references
in the exchange of notes to Section 407 of the China Aid Act of 1948 be deemed to include reference to Section 12 of Public Law
47, 81st Congress. "This note and Your Excellency's reply accepting the above pro""
posal will constitute an agreement between our two Governments.'

62 Stat., Pt . 3, p. 2945.
62 Stat. , Pt . 1, P. 159.
22 U.S.C., Supp. II, 1546. 63 Stat. , Pt . 1 , p. 55.

In reply, I have the honor to confirm the above understandings.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

His Excellency, Mr. LEWIS CLARK,

GEORGE K C YEH.

Minister of the United States of America
to the Republic of China, Canton.

2704

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

December 18, 1948, and May 12, 1949
T. I. A. S. 1976]

Agreement between the United States of America and Burma, amending the agreement of December 22, 1947, respecting the United States Educational Foundation in Burma. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rangoon December 18, 1948, and May 12, 1949; entered
into force May 12 , 1949.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Burmese Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY,

No. 298

Rangoon, December 18, 1948

SIR :

I have the honor to refer to Part 1 of Article 15 of the Educational

p.612819S. tat ., Pt . 2, Exchange Agreement of December 22, 1947, between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the

Union of Burma, which reads : "(1 ) The present agreement may be

Proposed amendment .

amended by the exchange of diplomatic notes between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Burma."
I have been instructed by the Government of the United States of America to propose to the Government of the Union of Burma that

p.612816S. tat ., Pt. 2,
Membership of Board of Directors.

Article 5 of the Agreement be amended to read as follows :
"The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of eight Directors (hereinafter designated the "Board " ) , four of whom shall be citizens of the United States of America and four of whom shall be

citizens of Burma. In addition the Principal Officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States of America to Burma

Honorary Chairman.
Appointments and removals.

(hereinafter designated "the Chief of Mission") shall be honorary Chairman of the Board. He shall cast the deciding vote in the event of a tie vote by the Board and shall appoint the Chairman of the Board.
"The citizens of the United States of America on the Board, at

least two of whom shall be officers of the United States Foreign

Service establishment in Burma, shall be appointed and removed by

the Chief of Mission ; the citizens of Burma on the Board shall be

Payment of expenses .
Effect of proposed amendment.

appointed and removed by the Government of Burma. "The Directors shall serve without compensation but the Founda-
tion is authorized to pay the necessary expenses of the Directors in attending the meetings of the Board."
It will be noted that the effect of the proposed amendment would be to increase the number of Burmese citizens on the Board from

three to four, and to require that these members be appointed by the Burma Government, rather than as at present by the Chief of the American Diplomatic Mission to Burma.
If the Government of the Union of Burma agrees to the proposed amendment, it will be necessary to appoint the four Burmese mem-

Dec. 18, 1948
63 STAT. ] BURMA- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATIONMay 12, 1949

bers under the revised procedure. The present three Burmese members are :

Sao Saimong, Chief Education officer, Shan States Dr. Htin Aung, Administrator, Rangoon University U Tha Hla (substituting for U Cho) , Director of Public Instruction .

Please accept, Sir, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration .
R. AUSTIN ACLY

The Honorable U KYAW NYEIN

Charge d'Affaires ad interim

Minister for Foreign Affairs Rangoon, Burma

2705

The Burmese Foreign Office to the American Embassy

FOREIGN OFFICE RANGOON

A/20/E

12 May 1949.

The Foreign Office presents its compliments to the American Em-

bassy and with reference to the Embassy's letter No. 298 dated the

18th December, 1948 , has the honour to say that the Government of

the Union of Burma agree to the proposed amendment to Article 5 of the United States Educational Exchange Agreement and desire to nominate the following under the revised procedure as Burmese members of the Board of Directors of the Foundation :

62 Stat. , p. 1816.

Pt. 2

1. U Cho, K.S.M., B.A., B.Ed. ( Edin ) . 2. Sao Saimong, Chief Education Officer, Shan States. 3. Dr. Htin Aung, Administrator, University of Rangoon. 4. Daw K'in K'in Gyi, President, The All-Burma Women's Free-
dom League, Rangoon.
The Foreign Office avails itself of this opportunity of renewing to the American Embassy the assurance of its highest consideration.

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Rangoon.

¿  69: 
 

F O R E

E C I

I

F

G N

F

O

2706

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

June 30, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1977]

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Haiti , extending and modifying the agreement of April 7 , 1942, as extended and amended, through June 30, 1950. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Port-au-Prince June 30, 1949 ; entered into force June 30, 1949.

The American Ambassador to the Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY

No. 305 EXCELLENCY :

Port-au-Prince, June 30, 1949

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended, en-

tered into in April 1942 on behalf of the Republic of Haiti and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , providing for the present

125988;St6a1t.S1t4a3t9.;, 59PStt. a4t,. pp.. 23665419.; 62 Stat. , Pt. 3,

Cooperative health and sanitation program in Haiti. I also refer to Your Excellency's note of June 20, 1949, [ '] suggesting the consideration by our respective governments of a further extension of that

Extension of program; contributions.

Agreement . Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are de-
riving from the program, my Government agrees with the Govern-

ment of Haiti that an extension of the program beyond its present

termination date of June 30, 1949 , would be desirable. Accordingly,

I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its

participation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30 , 1949, through June 30, 1950. It would be understood that, during this period of extension , the Institute would make a contribution of $100,000, in the currency of the United States, to the Service Cooperatif Inter-Americain de la Santé Publique, for use in carrying out

project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute to the Service for the same purpose the sum of

1,500,000 Gourdes . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be expended by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Service, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Health and Sanitation Division field staff, who are maintained by the Institute of Haiti. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the

sums already required under the present Basic Agreement, as amended, to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into

1 Not printed.

63 STAT. ] HAITI- HEALTH AND SANITATION-JUNE 30, 1949
force on the date of signature [ ] of an agreement by the Haitian Secretary of State for National Education and Public Health and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , embodying the above-mentioned technical details.
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible, in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Health and The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
WILLIAM E. DECOURCY His Excellency
TIMOLEON C. BRUTUS, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Port-au-Prince

The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT DES
RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES
No. SG/A- 3: 1.682 (bis)

RÉPUBLIQUE D'HAÏTI Port-au-Prince le 30 Juin 1949

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,

J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception à Votre Excellence de sa lettre en date du 30 courant, No. 305 , relative au renouvellement de l'accord du 7 Avril 1942 , amendé, pour une période d'une année finissant le 30 Juin 1950.

J'ai noté que les détails techniques dudit accord à conclure entre l'Institut des Affaires Inter-américaines et le Gouvernement haitien

devront être discutés par les fonctionnaires compétents des deux organismes .
Il m'est agréable d'informer Votre Excellence que les bases ci-dessous énumérées :

a) Contribution du Gouvernement haitien : $300.000.00

66

b)

de l'Institut

: 100.000.00

outre une certaine valeur destinée au paiement des salaires et autres

frais des membres du personnel de la Mission Sanitaire sont acceptées

par le Gouvernement de la République .

Je saisis cette occasion pour renouveler à Votre Excellence, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, l'assurance de ma haute considération .

Son Excellence

TIMOLEON C. BRUTUS

Monsieur WILLIAM EARL DECOURCY, Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire des Etats- Unis d'Amérique,

Port-au-Prince .

1 June 30, 1949.

2707

2708

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Translation

MINISTRY OF STATE FOR FOREIGN RELATIONS
No. SG/A-3: 1.682 (bis)

REPUBLIC OF HAITI Port-au-Prince June 30 1949

Mr. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's

letter No. 305 , dated the 30th of this month, relative to extension of

129588;St6a1t.S1t4a3t9.;, 59PtSt. a4t,. pp.. 23665419.; 62 Stat. , Pt. 3,

the Agreement of April 7 , 1942 , as amended , for a period of one year ending June 30 , 1950 .
I have noted that the technical details of the aforesaid Agreement to be concluded between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and

the Haitian Government are to be discussed by the appropriate

officials of the two bodies.

I take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that the Government of the Republic accepts the following bases :

(a) Contribution of the Haitian Government : $ 300,000.00

(( (b)

" Institute :

100,000.00

in addition to a certain sum for payment of salaries and other expenses of the personnel of the Health Mission .

I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my high consideration .

TIMOLEON C. BRUTUS

His Excellency WILLIAM EARL DECOURCY, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Port-au-Prince.

63 STAT. ] TRIESTE, U. S./U. K. ZONE-RELIEF SUPPLIES-FEB. 11 , 1949

2709

Agreement between the United States of America and the British/United States Zone, Free Territory of Trieste respecting duty -free entry of and payment of transportation charges on relief supplies and packages for the British/United States Zone, Free Territory of Trieste. Signed at Trieste February 11 , 1949; entered into force February 11 , 1949.
AGREEMENT FOR THE FREE ENTRY AND FREE INLAND TRANSPORTATION OF RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES

February 11, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1978]

For the purpose of giving effect to Article V, paragraph 2, read with

Article IV, paragraph 5 , of the Economic Cooperation Agreement be-

tween the Governments of the British-United States Zone, Free Ter-

ritory of Trieste and the United States of America, signed on 15
62 Stat . , Pt . 3 October 1948 , the Governments of the British- United States Zone, pp. 3031 , 3030.

Free Territory of Trieste and the United States agree as follows : 1.- The Government of the British-United States Zone, Free Terri-

Duty-free entry .

tory of Trieste shall accord duty-free entry into the Free Territory of Trieste of :

(a ) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies qualified under Economic Cooperation Administration ( hereinafter referred to as ECA) regulations and consigned to such charitable organizations ( including Free Territory of Trieste branches of these agencies ) as have been or hereafter shall be approved by the British-United States Zone, Free Territory of Trieste .
(b) Relief packages from residents of the United States of America sent by parcel post or other commercial channels addressed to an individual residing in the Free Territory of Trieste whether privately packed or by order placed with a commercial firm.
(c) Standard packs put up by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies , or their approved agents, qualified under ECA regulations, to the order of individuals in the United States and sent for delivery addressed to individuals residing in the British- United States Zone, Free Territory of Trieste.
2.- For the purpose of this Agreement, the term " standard packs" (subparagraph ( a ) of paragraph above ) , shall include only such goods as are permitted to be included in relief packages and standard packs as specified below in this paragraph 2 , but also may include upon special authorization of the customs authorities of the British-United States Zone, Free Territory of Trieste at the request of any such United States voluntary non-profit relief agency, any other goods except such as are specifically to be excluded from the contents of relief

Definitions.

2710

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

packages and standard packs, as stated below in this paragraph 2 ; "relief packages " ( subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 above) shall include only such goods as are qualified for ocean freight subsidy under the ECA Act and regulations issued by the Administrator thereunder ; "standard packs " ( subparagraph ( c ) of paragraph 1 above) shall contain only such articles which qualify under ECA regulations ; and the further provisions stated in subparagraphs ( a) to ( f) of this

Contents, weight, etc.

paragraph 2 shall be applicable both to relief packages ( subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 above) and to standard packs ( subparagraphs ( a) and ( c) of paragraph 1 above) :
(a) The contents of such relief packages and of such standard packs are to include only non-perishable food , every-day clothing or clothes making materials, shoes or shoe-making materials, mailable medical and health supplies the admission of which is permitted under Free Territory of Trieste regulations, and household supplies and utensils : and shall specifically exclude tobacco, cigars and cigarettes, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, luxury clothing, furs, clothes made with furs and skins, all textiles made of silk or nylon, gloves and other luxury items.
(b) Such relief packages and such standard packs shall not exceed, in any case, 44 lbs. in weight.

(c) Such relief packages as referred to in paragraph 1 (b) must be accompanied in each case by a detailed description of contents and statement of value and must be labeled "USA GIFT PARCEL".

(d ) Such relief packages and such standard packs shall be intended only for the personal use of the addressee and his immediate family.

(e) The British-United States Zone, Free Territory of Trieste Commander, after consultation with ECA Special Mission in Trieste, shall be entitled to make provisions as to the quantities

of each product or article which may be included in any such relief packages or standard packs which any one addressee may

receive free of duty in any month ; relief packages or standard packs containing quantities of any article or product beyond the limits thus provided for or relief packages or standard packs for any one addressee in excess of such number per month as

may be so prescribed , shall be excluded from the benefit of the

Exclusions .
Defrayal of transportation charges. p.63203S0.tat . , Pt . 3 ,

foregoing provisions for free entry. (f) The British-United States Zone, Free Territory of Trieste
Commander may exclude from the benefits of this Agreement the importation of all relief packages shipped by commercial firms when payment for such relief packages has been made illicitly or when such purchases have been made as a result of publicity or other means of soliciting such purchase from residents of the Free Territory of Trieste.
3.- Transportation charges ( as defined in paragraph 5 of Article IV, of the Economic Cooperation Agreement ) in the Free Territory of Trieste on "relief goods", "relief packages" and "standard packs" all

63 STAT. ] TRIESTE, U. S./U. K. ZONE-RELIEF SUPPLIES-FEB. 11, 1949

2711

as defined in paragraph 1 above and subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 above, shall be defrayed as follows :

(a) The amount of such charges for all such shipments which are sent by United States parcel post addressed to individuals in the Free Territory of Trieste will be computed by the Free Territory of Trieste Postal Service in the manner how or here-

after provided by the applicable agreements, rules and regulations of the International Postal System. Such charges shall be reimbursed to the Postal Service out of the Special Account

Special Account.

provided for in Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States of America and the Free Terri-
tory of Trieste (hereinafter referred to as the Special Account )

62 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 3029.

and no claim for such charges will be made against the United

States.

(b) With respect to such shipments as are originally dispatched from the United States by any regular established commercial channels and forwarded in the Free Territory of Trieste by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee by the Free

Territory of Trieste parcel post , such items shall be accepted by the Free Territory of Trieste postal service without payment of postal charges by such agent. The Free Territory of Trieste shall be reimbursed for such parcel post charges out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

(c) With respect to such shipments as are originally dispatched from the United States by any commercial channel and forwarded in the Free Territory of Trieste by an approved agent

of the shipper to the addressee by the Free Territory of Trieste common carrier or contract carrier, such items shall be accepted

by such Free Territory of Trieste carrier with or without payment of charges therefor by such agent. The Free Territory of Trieste shall reimburse such agent or Free Territory of Trieste carrier, as the case may be , out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

(d) With respect to any such charges which may be incurred by an agent of a shipper under subparagraphs (b) and ( c) above, other than parcel post charges and carrier charges, such approved agent shall be reimbursed by the Free Territory of Trieste out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

 4. ( a) The Free Territory of Trieste shall make payments out

Monthly statement of amounts expended .

of the Special Account for the purpose mentioned in subparagraphs

(a) (b) ( c ) and ( d ) of paragraph 3 above, and shall submit to the

ECA Mission in the Free Territory of Trieste with a copy to Controller,

ECA Washington, monthly statements of the amounts so expended in

form mutually satisfactory to the Free Territory of Trieste and said

Mission provided that each such statement shall at least show the total weight carried and charges therefor and adjustments shall be made to said fund if shown to be required by ECA audit.

2712 Effective date.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
(b) Such payments shall be made by the Free Territory of Trieste to reimburse ( 1 ) transportation charges incurred on and after the date of the signing of this Agreement, (2) transportation charges incurred by United States voluntary non- profit relief agencies within the Free Territory of Trieste, British-United States Zone between April 30 of 1948 and the date of the signing of this Agreement, upon presentation of adequate documentation.
5.- This Agreement shall go into effect upon the date of signing hereof.
In witness whereof the parties to this Agreement have authorized the same to be executed in their behalf by T. S. AIREY, C.B. , C.B.E. , Major General, Zone Commander for the Government of the British United States Zone of the Free Territory of Trieste and Hon. ROBERT E. GALLOWAY, Chief, Economic Cooperation Administration Special Mission to Trieste for the Government of the United States of America.
Executed at TRIESTE, Free Territory of Trieste, this 11th day of February, 1949.
FOR GOVERNMENT BR/US ZONE, FREE TERRITORY OF TRIESTE : TERENCE AIREY
T. S. Airey, C.B. , C.B.E. , Major General, Zone Commander
FOR GOVERNMENT OF UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : ROBERT E. GALLOWAY
Robert E. Galloway, Chief Economic Cooperation Administration
Special Mission to TRIESTE

63 STAT. ] KOREA- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES - JUNE 24, 29, 1949

2713

Provisional agreement between the United States of America and Korea respecting air transport services. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Seoul June 24 and 29 , 1949 ; entered into force June 29, 1949.

June 24, 29, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1979]

The American Ambassador to the President of Korea

AMERICAN EMBASSY

EXCELLENCY :

Seoul, Korea, June 24, 1949

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency of the desire of the Civil aviation rights. Government ofthe United States of America to obtain on a provisional basis, pending the conclusion of a formal air transport agreement between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Government of the United States of America , the grant of civil aviation rights similar to those previously accorded by the United States Army Forces in Korea to United States commercial carriers. The Govern-

ment of the Republic of Korea is requested by the Government of the United States of America to grant to United States commercial air carriers the following rights on Korean territory to remain effective until a formal air transport agreement has been concluded between the two countries :

( 1 ) To transit and make technical stops in Korean territory and to pick up and discharge international traffic at Seoul ;
(2) Of reasonable and non-discriminatory landing fees and other related charges ;
( 3 ) To bring into Korea, fuel, lubricating oils, and spare parts intended solely for use by United States commercial aircraft engaged in international flights on the basis of the same treatment accorded national air lines of the most- favored-nation ;
(4) Of exemption from customs and inspection fees and similar charges on fuel , oils, spare parts , regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board aircraft operating in accordance with subparagraph ( 1 ) above ;
(5) Of cooperation from the Government of the Republic of Korea, its nationals, agencies or instrumentalities in making emergency landings, effecting repairs and taking off at any airport or air strip in territory under the control of the Government of the Republic of Korea ;
(6) To have access to the scene of any aviation disaster involving United States commercial aircraft and to have all reasonable aid in recovering wrecked aircraft and their contents ;
(7) To bring in such ground transportation equipment and materials as may be necessary to support authorized air service on the basis of the same treatment accorded national air lines and the air lines of the most-favored- nation ;

2714 Effective date.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
(8) To rent or build shelter, for civil aviation purposes, to house and to provide necessary and authorized facilities at the airport used to serve Seoul ;
(9) To bring to and to use any necessary communications, weather forecasting and similar technical equipment on the basis of the same treatment accorded national air lines and air lines of the mostfavored-nation ;
(10) Of residence in territory under the control of the Government of the Republic of Korea of any non- Korean technical or administrative personnel whose services are required to maintain the uninterrupted air service of United States commercial air lines ;
( 11 ) To have recognized by the Government of the Republic of Korea, certificates of air worthiness of aircraft , certificates of competency of commercial air lines, and licences of airmen and ground personnel issued by the Government of the United States of America, its agencies or instrumentalities.
Upon receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that your Government grants the rights provided herein, the Government of the United States of America will consider that the grant of such rights becomes effective upon the date of Your Excellency's note.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
JOHN J. MUCCIO Ambassador
His Excellency Dr. SYNGMAN RHEE, President of the Republic of Korea, Seoul.

The President of Korea to the American Ambassador

REPUBLIC OF KOREA SEOUL

OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT

JUNE 29, 1949

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's note of June 24, 1949, expressing the desire of the Government of the United States of America to obtain on a provisional basis and pending

the conclusion of a formal air transport agreement between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Government of the United

States of America, the grant of civil aviation rights similar to those previously accorded by the United States Army Forces in Korea to United States commercial carriers. Believing the maintenance of commercial air service to be in the best interests of the two countries and

until such time as it may be possible to negotiate a formal air transport agreement covering civil aviation, the Government of the Republic of

Korea grants to United States commercial carriers in Korean territory the following rights to remain effective until such time as a formal agreement has been concluded between the two governments :

63 STAT. ] KOREA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-JUNE 24, 29, 1949

( 1 ) To transit and make technical stops in Korean territory and to pick up and discharge international traffic at Seoul ;
(2 ) Of reasonable and non -discriminatory landing fees and other related charges ;
(3) To bring into Korea, fuel, lubricating oils, and spare parts intended solely for use by United States commercial aircraft engaged in international flights on the basis of the same treatment accorded national air lines and the airlines of other nations ;
(4) Of exemption from customs and inspection fees and similar charges on fuel, oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board aircraft operating in accordance with sub-paragraph (1 ) above ;
(5) Of cooperation from the Government of the Republic of Korea, its nationals, agencies or instrumentalities in making emergency landings, effecting repairs and taking off at any airport or air strip in territory under the control of the Government of the Republic of Korea ;
(6) To have access to the scene of any aviation disaster involving United States commercial aircraft and to have all reasonable aid in recovering wrecked aircraft and their contents ;
(7) To bring in such ground transportation equipment and materials as may be necessary to support authorized air service on the basis of the same treatment accorded national air lines and the air lines of other nations ;
(8) To rent or build shelter, for civil aviation purposes, to house and to provide necessary and authorized facilities at the airport used to serve Seoul;
(9) To bring to and to use any necessary communications, weather forecasting and similar technical equipment on the basis of the same treatment accorded national air lines and air lines of other nations ;
(10 ) Of residence in territory under the control of the Government of the Republic of Korea of any non-Korean technical or administrative personnel whose services are required to maintain the uninterrupted air service of United States commercial air lines ;
( 11 ) To have recognized by the Government of the Republic of Korea , certificates of air worthiness of aircraft, certificates of competency of commercial air lines, and licences of airmen and ground personnel issued by the Government of the United States of America , its agencies or instrumentalities.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

Sincerely yours ,
His Excellency JOHN J. MUCCIO, Ambassador of the United States of America, American Embassy, Seoul.

SYNGMAN RHEE

2715

2716

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

September 28, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1983]

Agreement between the United States of America and Burma respecting air transport services . Signed at Rangoon September 28, 1949; entered into force September 28, 1949.

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERN . MENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNION OF BURMA

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Union of Burma,
Desiring to conclude an agreement for the purpose of promoting direct air communications between their respective territories,
Have accordingly appointed authorized representatives for this purpose, who have agreed as follows:

ARTICLE 1

Definitions. Post, p. 2720.

For the purposes of the present Agreement, and its Annex, except where the text provides otherwise :
(A) The term "aeronautical authorities" shall mean in the case of the United States of America, the Civil Aeronautics Board or any person or agency authorized to perform the functions exercised at

the present time by the Civil Aeronautics Board and, in the case of the Union of Burma, the Ministry of Transport and Communications , or any person or agency authorized to perform the functions exercised

at present by the said Ministry of Transport and Communications. (B) The term "designated airlines " shall mean those airlines which
the aeronautical authorities of one of the contracting parties have notified in writing to the aeronautical authorities of the other con-

tracting party as the airlines which it has designated in conformity with Article 3 of the present Agreement for the routes specified in such designation .

(C) The term "territory" shall have the meaning given to it by Article 2 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation , signed p.611181S.tat . , Pt . 2 , at Chicago on December 7 , 1944.
(D) The definitions contained in paragraphs (a) , (b) , and (d) of Article 96 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed 61 p. 1207Stat . , Pt . 2 , at Chicago on December 7, 1944 shall be applied to the present . Agreement .
ARTICLE 2

Rights. Post, p. 2720.

Each contracting party grants to the other contracting party the rights as specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described, whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted .

63 STAT. ] BURMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-SEPT. 28, 1949

2717

ARTICLE 3
Inauguration of Each of the air services so described may be placed in operation as services.
soon as the contracting party to whom the rights have been granted by Article 2 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned has authorized an airline for such route, and the contracting party
granting the rights shall, subject to Article 7 hereof, be bound to give the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines concerned ; provided that the airlines so designated may be required to satisfy the competent aeronautical authorities of the contracting party granting the rights that they are qualified to fulfill the conditions prescribed under the laws and regulations normally applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage in the operations contem-
Operations subject plated by this agreement ; and provided that in areas of hostilities or of to military authormilitary occupation, or in areas affected thereby, such operations shall ities. be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

ARTICLE 4
In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality of treatment, both contracting parties agree that:

Prevention of discrimination, etc.

(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be imposed on the designated airlines of the other contracting party just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control . Each of the contracting parties agrees , however,
that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and other facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) The fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one contracting party by or on behalf of airlines of the other contracting party, and intended solely for use by aircraft of the designated airlines of such contracting party shall, with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party whose territory is entered, be accorded the same treatment as that applying to national airlines and to airlines of the most-favored nation .
(c) The fuel, lubricating oils , spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board aircraft of the designated airlines of one contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall , upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

Post, p. 2720.

ARTICLE 5

Certificates of airCertificates of airworthiness , certificates of competency and licenses worthiness, etc.
issued or rendered valid by one contracting party and still in force shall

be recognized as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annex , provided

Post, p. 2720.

that the requirements under which such certificates or licenses were

issued or rendered valid are equal to or above the minimum standards

which may be established pursuant to the Convention on International

2718

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Reservation . 61 Stat., Pt . 2,
p. 1180.

Civil Aviation . Each contracting party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another State.
ARTICLE 6

Laws and regulations.

(a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to

the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged

in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of

such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft

of the airlines designated by the other contracting party, and shall be

complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or

while within the territory of the first party.

(b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or

cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, im-

migration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with

by or on behalf of such passengers, crew or cargo of the airlines desig-

nated by the other contracting party upon entrance into or departure

from, or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE 7

Withholding of rights, etc., in certain cases .
Post, p. 2720.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 10 hereof, each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke the exercise of the rights specified in the Annex to this Agreement by an airline designated by

the other contracting party in the event that it is not satisfied that

substantial ownership and effective control of such airline are vested

in nationals of the other contracting party, or in case of failure by such airline or the Government designating such airline, to comply with the laws and regulations referred to in Article 6 hereof, or otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder, or otherwise to fulfill the

conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with this Agreement and its Annex.
ARTICLE 8

Registration with ICAO.

This Agreement and all contracts connected therewith shall be

registered with the International Civil Aviation Organization.

ARTICLE 9

Existing rights and privileges.

Existing rights and privileges relating to air transport services which may have been granted previously by either of the contracting parties to an airline of the other contracting party shall continue in force according to their terms.

ARTICLE 10

Notice of termina-

tion .

Either of the contracting parties may at any time notify the other

of its intention to terminate the present Agreement. Such a notice

shall be sent simultaneously to the International Civil Aviation Or-

ganization. In the event such communication is made, this Agreement shall terminate one year after the date of receipt of the notice

to terminate, unless by agreement between the contracting parties the communication under reference is withdrawn before the expiration

63 STAT. ] BURMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -SEPT. 28, 1949

2719

of that time. If the other contracting party fails to acknowledge receipt, notice shall be deemed as having been received 14 days after its receipt by the International Civil Aviation Organization.

ARTICLE 11 In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable rouMtoedsiofriccoandtiitoionnso. f to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex, Post, p. 2720. it may request consultation between the competent authorities of both contracting parties, such consultation to begin within a period of sixty days from the date of the request. When these authorities mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex, their recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes .

ARTICLE 12 Multilateral con-
If a general multilateral air transport Convention accepted by both vention.
contracting parties enters into force, the present Agreement shall be
amended so as to conform with the provisions of such Convention.

ARTICLE 13

Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or its Annex, any dispute between the contracting parties relative to the interpretation or application of this Agreement or its Annex, which cannot be settled through consultation , shall be submitted for an advisory report to a tribunal of three arbitrators , one to be named by each contracting party, and the third to be agreed upon by the two arbitrators so chosen, provided that such third arbitrator shall not be a national of

Disputes.

either contracting party. Each of the contracting parties shall desig-

nate an arbitrator within two months of the date of delivery by either

party to the other party of a diplomatic note requesting arbitration

of a dispute ; and the third arbitrator shall be agreed upon within one

month after such period of two months . If the third arbitrator is not

agreed upon, within the time limitation indicated , the vacancy thereby created shall be filled by the appointment of a person, designated by

the President of the Council of ICAO, from a panel of arbitral personnel

maintained in accordance with the practice of ICAO. The executive

authorities of the contracting parties will use their best efforts under

the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed

in any such advisory report.

A moiety of the expenses of the arbitral

Expenses of arbitral tribunal.

tribunal shall be borne by each party.

ARTICLE 14
Changes made by either contracting party in the routes described in the schedules attached except those which change the points served by these designated airlines in the territory of the other contracting party shall not be considered as modifications of the Annex . The aeronautical authorities of either contracting party may therefore proceed unilaterally to make such changes, provided , however, that notice of any change is given without delay to the aeronautical authorities of the other contracting party.
81939-52-PT. III-- 27

Changes in routes.

2720 Entry into force.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

If such other aeronautical authorities find that, having regard to the principles set forth in Section VII of the Annex to the present Agreement, interests of their airlines are prejudiced by the carriage by the airlines of the first contracting party of traffic between the territory of the second contracting party and the new point in the territory of the third country, the authorities of the two contracting parties shall consult with a view to arriving at a satisfactory agreement.
ARTICLE 15

This Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereto , will come into force on the day it is signed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned , being duly authorized by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement .
Done in duplicate at Rangoon this 28th day of September, 1949 .

For the Government of the United States of America:

[ SEAL]

J KLAHR HUDDLE

For the Government of the Union of Burma:

[SEAL]

UE MAUNG

ANNEX

Routes. Post, p. 2722.

SECTION I
The Government of the Union of Burma grants to the Government of the United States of America the right to conduct air transport services by one or more airlines of United States nationality designated by the latter country on the routes, specified in Schedule One attached , which transit or serve commercially the territory of the Union of Burma .
SECTION II

Post, p. 2722.

The Government of the United States of America grants to the Government of the Union of Burma the right to conduct air transport services by one or more airlines of the Union of Burma nationality designated by the latter country on the routes, specified in Schedule Two attached, which transit or serve commercially the territory of the United States of America.

SECTION III

Rights of transit

and stop, etc.

One or more airlines designated by each of the contracting parties

under the conditions provided in this Agreement will enjoy, in the

territory of the other contracting party, rights of transit and of stops

for non-traffic purposes, as well as the right of commercial entry and

departure for international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at

the points enumerated on each of the routes specified in the Schedules attached .
SECTION IV

Transport facilities. The air transport facilities available hereunder to the travelling

public shall bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such transport.

63 STAT. ] BURMA-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- SEPT. 28, 1949

2721

SECTION V Equal opportu-
There shall be a fair and equal opportunity for the airlines of the nities. contracting parties to operate on any route between their respective
territories (as defined in the Agreement) covered by this Agreement and Annex .

SECTION VI Operation of trunk
In the operation by the designated airlines of either contracting services. party of the trunk services described in the present Annex, the interest of the designated airlines of the other contracting party shall be taken into consideration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provides on all or part of the same routes .

SECTION VII

It is the understanding of both contracting parties that services Capacity.

provided by a designated airline under the present Agreement and

Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity

adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such

airline is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic. The right to embark or disembark on such services international traffic destined for and coming from third countries at a point

Right to embark, etc.

in the territory of the other party on the routes specified in the present

Annex shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of

orderly development to which both contracting parties subscribe and

shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :

(a) to traffic requirements between the country of origin of the air service and the countries of destination ;
(b) to the requirements of through airline operation ; and (c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline
passes after taking account of local and regional services .

SECTION VIII
In so far as the designated airlines of one contracting party may be temporarily prevented through difficulties arising from war from taking immediate advantage of the opportunity referred to in Section V above, the situation shall be reviewed between the contracting parties with the object of facilitating the necessary development, as soon as the designated airlines of the first contracting party are in a position increasingly to make their proper contribution to the service .
SECTION IX
It is the intention of both contracting parties that there should be regular and frequent consultation between their respective aeronautical authorities (as defined in the Agreement) and that there should thereby be close collaboration in the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in the present Agreement and Annex.

Review of situation; Consultation .

2722

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

SCHEDULE 1
Specified air routes. The airlines designated by the Government of the United States
shall be entitled to operate air services on air routes specified in this
paragraph via intermediate points in both directions, and to make scheduled landings in Burma at the points specified :

The United States through Europe, North Africa, the Near

East, Pakistan and India to Rangoon and Mandalay and

beyond.

SCHEDULE 2

Specified routes in

the United States.

The airlines designated by the Government of the Union of Burma

shall be entitled to operate air services and to make scheduled landings

in the United States along a specific route or routes to be agreed upon by the Governments of the United States and the Union of

Burma at such time as the Government of the Union of Burma

decides to commence operations.

Nonstop flights.

SCHEDULE 3
On each of the above routes the airline authorized to operate such route may operate nonstop flights between any of the points on such route omitting stops at one or more of the other points on such route.

[ SEAL ]

[SEAL]

63 STAT.] UNITED KINGDOM- NAVAL AND AIR BASES- SEPT. 19, 1949

2723

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting leased naval and air bases, modifying application of the agreement of March 27, 1941 , to Trinidad. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington September 19, 1949; entered into force September 19, 1949.

September 19, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1985]

The Acting Secretary of State to the British Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

Sep 19 1949

I have the honor to refer to discussions which took place in Port of

Spain in June, 1947, and subsequently, for the purpose of settling, in accordance with the provisions of the Leased Naval and Air Bases

Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the United

States of America signed March 27th, 1941 , certain outstanding matters arising out of the establishment of the United States Air Force Base in Trinidad.

The enclosed document which has been drawn up as the result of these discussions embodies the understanding of this Government with reference to the matters set forth therein. If it likewise reflects

the view of the Government of the United Kingdom, it is suggested

that the present note and its enclosure together with Your Excellency's note in reply thereto, be regarded as placing the understanding in effect.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

Enclosure : Agreement

JAMES E. WEBB Acting Secretary of State

His Excellency The Right Honorable Sir OLIVER SHEWELL FRANKS , K.C.B. , C.B.E. British Ambassador.

55 Stat. 1560.

2724

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Part I. DOCKSITE .

AGREEMENT

( 1 ) It is agreed that the area at Docksite defined in blue on map

"A" annexed to this Agreement shall be leased to the United States

55 Stat. 1593.

under Annex III ( E ) ( 6 ) ( b ) of the Base Lease Agreement of 27th March, 1941 (hereinafter called "the Base Lease Agreement") and that

Lease.

the lease shall take a form similar to that set out in Annex II ( 6 ) of the Base Lease Agreement.
(2 ) It is agreed that in the event of a war breaking out in which the

United States is involved or of any other overriding military necessity

as determined by the Secretary of Defense of the United States of

America after consultation with His Majesty's Government in the

United Kingdom, the areas defined in red on the said map "A" shall

55 Stat. 1570.

be leased to the United States of America by a supplementary lease under the provisions of Article XXVII of the Base Lease Agreement

" Supplementary area".

and that the supplementary lease shall be substantially in the form set out in the First Schedule to this Agreement.
The area to be so leased is hereinafter called "the supplementary area". The cessation and determination of such lease as therein pro-

Relinquishment of supplementary area.

vided shall not prejudice the application of this paragraph in the event of a further war or overriding military necessity as aforesaid.
(3) It is agreed that the United States Government shall, as ex-

peditiously as possible, relinquish the supplementary area at present

occupied by them which is outside the area defined in blue on the said

Maintenance and use.

map "A" with the exception of those areas described in the Second Schedule to this Agreement.
(4 ) So long as there shall not be subsisting a lease of the supple-

mentary area granted as provided in paragraph (2 ) of this Part of

this Agreement, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago shall main-

tain that area, improvements thereon excepted, in such condition as

will permit its demise to the United States Government in as good

condition as when it was relinquished by them, ordinary wear and tear excepted :

Buildings. Possession.

Provided that the Government of Trinidad and Tobago and their lessees or assignees may demolish structures, roads and installations whether below or above ground and may construct buildings, roads and such facilities as it may deem necessary for the development of the supplementary area , but shall not, without mutual agreement, make such use of such area by erecting structures and installations, other than those incidental to the development of such area for normal commercial and residential purposes, as would render such area unfit for military purposes in the event of its demise to the United States of America.
(5 ) All or any of the buildings at the date of this Agreement situated in the supplementary area may be disposed of by the United States Government.
(6) In any event as mentioned in paragraph ( 2 ) of this Part of this Agreement, the Government of Trinidad and Tobago shall take such

GRUOAD ANAPO

BO GO TA

ARIMA GATE

MAT URI TA

EASTERN MEX
ICO

MAIN

RA ERA DEM

R VE BI
AD RO

ROAD

AMAZON

VALENCIA GATE ROAD

ROOSEVELT

ROAD

RIVER

CHU R

CHURCHILL - ROOSEVELT GATEX

GUA NAP O

73

81939 O- 52 ( 63 Stat., Pt. 3 ) Face p. 2725

ARIPO 1

ROAD

N ER ST EA

AD RO N MAI

MAP "B "

ROADS

WALLER FIELD AREA

TRINIDAD,

B. W. I.

800 1600 2400

4000 FEET

47 13266

MAP " A " DOCK SITE

ALB ERT O
.ST ROS
ALI NO
.ST

GAL LUS
.ST

AN A
.ST

LUI S .ST AL FR ED O ST .
CA RLLO OSS ST


 

WRIGHTSON EASEMENT

ROAD

10 FEET WIDE

WR

IG

HT

GIR

SO N

ON

MU RR AY
ST

1 G.N.

CO RN EL IO
ST . FR EN CH ST

FI TT
ST .

OF 0.
46 WI AC 4
DEOR O AGH IRM 34 .

B 3

323000

N

442000

°27 '32
44 5. 3

"BB"
3 . 0 3 3

102 ° 06 ' 1462.7
862.6

FE ET

63 °44

97 -1

"Z"

305 ° 54'- 2101 4

38' 3

7°

0"

121 8.5

117° 38' 30'

" PI"

EA SE ME N 20

20

032 464 8
95. 1

H88° 56'G 161.7

11 60 30 -4 78 .7 '

29

6. 8

E

L- F

11 91 6

61 0. 8

117 °50'

168 4.3 900 .9

760 .32

" PI-"J"

A.6 0

IR.

RO AD
EA SE ME NT

117° 50' J 183
.2 P

ENT SEM EA

0.4 IPI.

73 1'15 IAC.

4°7 OR

02.2 . C

15- 1

-A P

0.7 "70

71

1 -

117 ° 33'

125 ° 5834 5

18

240

4. 4

07 '-

m

18 4. 4

142.Li

116°40 4

2-912

27 °

1'1 5"

.33.8

GA TA CR E
ST .

W R I G H T S O N

10

FE ET

R O A D

W I D E

A

0.4F G E O O

2 11 E O

R

A L

0T

26 P.

IRON

BR AS S

WID E

28 °53 2'-6
5.1

140 .7J-X

01213Y

1

265 .

-118 °53'-151.5



'3

°5

28

U 151 118 ° 53.5

O0.A .4C0. IRA. 24 OP. 2 C. R

CO LV IL LE
ST .

329000

N

442 000

329000

323000 °27 38

N

440 000

'30 57 62° 34 " -5

REFERENCE :

BLUE Area referred to in Part I , parograph ( 1 ) of the annexed agreement

RED Supplementary area referred to in Part I , parograph ( 2 ) of the annexed agreement

GREEN

Areas and easements referred to in Part I , parographs ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) of the annexed agreement.

N

440000

E

SCALE : 1 : 2500 Distances are in links
J.W.K. 81939 O - 52 ( 63 Stat. , Pt. 3 ) Face p. 2724

63 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- NAVAL AND AIR BASES-SEPT. 19, 1949

2725

steps as may be necessary to ensure that the supplementary area shall

be vacated by them and their assignees within a period of 60 days ; and thereupon, if the said supplementary lease shall not have been

executed, possession of the supplementary area shall be immediately

given to the United States Government pending the execution of such lease.
(7) All the provisions of the Base Lease Agreement, including Annex I to that agreement, except as may be otherwise agreed, shall

Applicable provisions.
55 Stat. 1572.

become applicable to the supplementary area with effect from the date

upon which the said supplementary lease becomes operative or the

date upon which possession is given under the preceding paragraph,
whichever shall be the earlier. Supplementary
(8) It is agreed that the areas described in the Second Schedule to lease.

this Agreement and defined in green on the attached Map "A " shall

forthwith be leased to the United States of America by a supple-

mentary lease under the provisions of Article XXVII of the Base Lease Agreement, and that such lease shall take a form similar to

55 Stat. 1570.

that set out in Annex II (6 ) of the Base Lease Agreement. (9) The United States Government shall have such easements as are
necessary to the use and operation of wharves leased under the Base

Easements.

Lease Agreement and of the areas described in the said Second Schedule.

PART II. CHURCHILL - ROOSEVELT HIGHWAY AND OTHER ROADS .

Churchill-Roosevelt (1 ) It is agreed that the Churchill-Roosevelt Highway, from the Highway.
point where it leaves the Eastern Main Road at Laventille to the

point where it enters Waller Field, shall become the property of the Government of Trinidad and Tobago and shall be maintained by that

Government as one of the Colony's public main roads. (2 ) It is agreed that, in order to provide a public main road from
Port of Spain via the Churchill-Roosevelt Highway to Sangre Grande, the public shall have the right, subject to the provisions of Article II of the Base Lease Agreement, to use the road within Waller Field which is defined as Demerara Road on the attached map "B"

Demerara Road. 55 Stat. 1561.

and that the Government of Trinidad and Tobago shall maintain it as one of the Colony's public main roads.
(3 ) It is agreed that the Government of Trinidad and Tobago shall resume control of that part of the Eastern Main Road which lies within Waller Field.
(4 ) It is agreed that the public shall have the right , subject to the provisions of Article II of the Base Lease Agreement, to use those

Eastern Main Road.
Aripo and Guanapo Roads.

parts of the Aripo Road and of the Guanapo Road, also known re-

spectively as the Amazon and Bogota roads, which lie within Waller

Field , and that the Government of Trinidad and Tobago shall maintain them at a reasonable standard .
(5) It is agreed that, in the event of the Government of Trinidad

Right ofway within Waller Field.

and Tobago wishing to construct a bypass road to the south of Waller

Field from the Churchill-Roosevelt Highway to the Eastern Main

Road, the United States Government will grant the Government of

2726 Control of traffic. Waiver of claims.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Trinidad and Tobago on request, without cost, a right of way within Waller Field approximately 200 feet wide and following approximately the southern boundary of Waller Field.
(6) It is agreed that the Government of Trinidad and Tobago in time of peace shall control traffic adequately to safeguard United States interests, on those roads within Waller Field which are under the control of the Government of Trinidad and Tobago.
(7) It is agreed that all claims resulting from alleged damage to roads in the colony or arising out of the construction thereof shall be waived.
Part III. INTERPRETATION.

This document, with the Annexures, consisting of two Schedules, two maps marked "A" and "B" and three Agreed Minutes, shall constitute this Agreement.

FIRST SCHEDULE TO THE AGREEMENT FORM OF SUPPLEMENTARY LEASE

55 Stat. 1570.

In accordance with Article XXVII of the Base Lease Agreement signed on the 27th March, 1941 , and Part I, Paragraph 2 of the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and

Ante, p. 2724. Period of lease.

His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom dated September 19 , 1949, His Majesty doth hereby demise to the United States of America free from all rent and charges the areas defined in red on Map "A" annexed to the last-mentioned Agreement, to hold unto the United States of America for the unexpired period of the lease for 99 years of land in Trinidad granted by His Majesty to the United States of America on the 22nd day of April 1941 ; and all the provisions contained in the said lease shall, except so far as they are in-

consistent with the express provisions of this Lease, be deemed to
be incorporated in this Lease : Termination of Provided that within six months, or such further period as may be lease.
mutually agreed, of the termination of the war or overriding military necessity by reason of which this Lease was executed, this Lease shall cease and determine.

SECOND SCHEDULE TO THE AGREEMENT

55 Stat. 1570.

Areas to be leased forthwith to the United States of America under the provisions of Article XXVII of the Base Lease Agreement of March 27, 1941 .

Ante, p. 2724.

1. The area containing water well No. 1 , reservoir and pump-house indicated at 1. on Map A.
2. The area containing water well No. 2 , indicated at 2. on Map A.

63 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-NAVAL AND AIR BASES -SEPT. 19, 1949 AGREED MINUTE 1

2727

It was agreed that under Article XXVII of the Base Lease Agreement the Government of the United States should at no cost to that

Government acquire for the unexpired period of the lease granted in accordance with that Agreement : -
(a) Easements for marine, underground and overhead cables at the

Easements.

following locations :

( 1 ) Port of Spain to Fort Read - Waller Field ;

(2) Docksite to Monos and Chacachacare Islands ;

(3 ) Carlsen Field Branch ;

(4 ) Carlsen Field Radio Range Branch ;

(5) Waller Field to Piarce Airport.

(b) An easement for the right of way for the railway spur into Carlsen Field.
(c) A supplementary lease of three areas now held under duration leases for communication sites ; -

Supplementary leases.

(1 ) Flagstaff Hill , Tobago ; ( 2 ) La Lune ; (3) Blanchisseuse.

(d ) A supplementary lease of the Carlsen Railway Spur site.

AGREED MINUTE 2.

The Government of Trinidad and Tobago takes note with apprecia-

tion of the following statements by the United States representatives

relating to the rights accorded to the United States by Annex III (E ) (2) of the Base Lease Agreement : -
(a ) The United States will not exercise its right under Annex

55 Stat. 1591.
Impounding and use of waters.

III ( E ) (2) (a ) of the Base Lease Agreement to impound, take and

use the waters of, and in the watershed of, the Aripo River at any

time within the predictable future except when the United States is at war ;

(b) The United States will have no objection to the exploitation waREttxexrp!.loitation of of the water in the Aripo Valley by the Government of Trinidad and

Tobago or its duly authorized representative : provided that, if the

Government of Trinidad and Tobago shall elect to exploit the

water in the Aripo Valley or if it shall elect to delegate this exploita-

tion, it will make such water available to the United States military authorities in Trinidad, if such a request is made during a state

of emergency, or when the United States is at war, under conditions no less favourable than the water is made available to the

Government of Trinidad and Tobago.

The Government of Trinidad and Tobago agrees that since the Claims.

United States has not hitherto exercised the rights accorded to it by Annex III ( E) (2 ) of the Base Lease Agreement it is not liable for

55 Stat. 1591.

any claim arising out of the non-exercise of these rights. The Government of Trinidad and Tobago accepts responsibility for

settlement of claims for compensation in respect of loss by damage

arising out of the establishment of Waller Field which have been

presented by land owners in the Aripo and Guanapo Valleys.

81939-52- PT. III-- 28

2728

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

AGREED MINUTE 3.

Release of sites.

The following matters were also discussed :
1. Release of sites occupied by the United States Army under duration leases.

The United States Government representatives indicated that the release of such sites was already in process and would be expedited.

caIrsel. and ofChacacha55 Stat. 1592.

2. Outstanding questions relating to the lease to the Government of the United States on the island of Chacachacare under Annex III (E) (3 ) of the Base Lease Agreement.

After brief discussion it was agreed that the matter is succeptible of local settlement.

55 Stat. 1570.

3. Permission for members of the public to make use of certain areas made available to the Government of the United States under Article XXVII of the Base Lease Agreement.
The United States representatives agreed that their local authorities would give sympathetic consideration to any requests put forward by the Government of Trinidad and Tobago.

55 Stat. 1560.

The British Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

BRITISH EMBASSY,

No. 305 Ref: 62/25/49

WASHINGTON, D. C. 19th September 1949.

SIR,

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your note of the 19th September proposing that an arrangement for the purpose of settling, in accordance with the provisions of the Leased Naval and Air Bases Agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of

the United States of America signed March 27th , 1941 , certain outstanding matters arising out of the establishment of the United States Air Force Base in Trinidad, be made between the Government of the

United Kingdom and the Government of the United States on the terms set forth in the enclosures in your note. 2. I have the honour to state that the Government of the United Kingdom approve the provisions set forth in the document annexed to

your note and agree that your note and its enclosures, together with this reply, shall be regarded as bringing the arrangement into force on this day's date.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurance of my highest consideration.
OLIVER FRANKS The Honourable
JAMES E. WEBB,

Acting Secretary of State of the United States, Department of State, Washington, D. C.

63 STAT. ] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 21, 26 1949 Aug. 18, 24, 1949

2729

Agreement between the United States of America and Honduras respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras , amending and extending the agreement of May 5 and 8, 1942 , as amended and extended. Effected by exchanges of notes signed at Tegucigalpa July 21 and 26, and August 18 and 24, 1949; entered into force August 24, 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1949.

JuAluygu21s,t2168,,12944,91, 9a4n9d [T. I. A. S. 1986]

The American Ambassador to the Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 127

TEGUCIGALPA, D. C. , July 21 , 1949

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended ,

entered into in July 1942 between the Republic of Honduras and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , providing for the existing cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras. I also

61 Stat . , Pt. 3, p. 2331.

refer to Your Excellency's note No. 4648 of June 30 , 1949 [ ' ] suggesting
the consideration by our respective governments of a further extension of that Agreement.
Extension of proConsidering the mutual benefits which both Governments are gram; contributions.

deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Honduras that an extension of the program beyond its present

termination date would be desirable . Accordingly, I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements

may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1949 through June 30 , 1950. It would be understood that , during this period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $ 50,000 in the

currency of the United States , to the Servicio Cooperativo InterAmericano de Salud Publica, for use in carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of not less than L500,000 . It would also be understood that were the Honduran Government not

in a position to contribute L500,000 , the contribution of the Institute would be at the rate of one-fifth of the amount determined by the Honduran Government. The Institute would also be willing during

the same extension period to make available funds to be administered

by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio,

for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the

Health and Sanitation field staff who are maintained by the Institute

in Honduras . The amounts referred to would be in addition to the
sums already required under the present Basic Agreement, as amended , to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.

61 Stat. , Pt. 3,
pp. 2331, 3114; 62 Stat., 3, p. 3904.

1 Not printed.

2730 Entry into force.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature [ ] of an agreement by the Secretary of State in charge of the Ministry of Government , Justice, Health and Welfare and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible, in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Secretary of State in charge of the Ministry of Government, Justice Health and Welfare and The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
HERBERT S. BURSLEY
His Excellency Dr. J. EDGARDO VALENZUELA, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Tegucigalpa, D. C.

The Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

N° 362 EXCELENCIA:

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES DE LA
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
TEGUCIGALPA, D.C. , 26 de julio de 1949.

Tengo el honor de acusar recibo de la atenta nota N° 127 fechada el 21 del presente mes, de Vuestra Excelencia, en relación con el Acuerdo Básico enmendado , celebrado en el mes de julio de 1942 entre la República de Honduras y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, y en contestación tengo el honor de trascribirle el oficio que dice así:

"MINISTERIO DE GOBERNACION , JUSTICIA, SANIDAD Y BENEFICENCIA. - Tegucigalpa , D.C. , Julio 26 , 1949. - Of . N° 433. - Muy estimado Señor Ministro : Me permito acusarle recibo de su atento oficio fechado el 25 del mes en curso, trascribiéndome la comunicación que ha recibido de Su Excelencia el Señor Embajador Americano, que se refiere al aviso que él ha recibido del Departamento de Estado , informándole que ya pueden hacerse arreglos con el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos para la extensión del programa, por un año más, de junio 30 de 1949 a junio 30 de 1950 , del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública para llevar a cabo los proyectos de actividades del programa, siendo entendido que la contribución de dicho Instituto, durante el período de prórroga será de --- $ 50,000.00 en moneda de los Estados Unidos , bajo la condición de que la contribu-

¹ Aug. 24, 1949.

July 21 , 26, 1949 63 STAT.] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION- Aug. 18, 24, 1949
ción de nuestro Gobierno para el Servicio y el mismo objeto , habrá de ser de una suma no menor de $ 500,000.00.- Se entenderá también que si nuestro Gobierno no estuviere en condiciones de contribuir con la suma anotada, entonces , la contribución del Instituto sería en una proporción de uno a cinco de la cantidad determinada por el Gobierno de Honduras.- Se ha tomado buena nota de que el Instituto está dispuesto a seguir aportando fondos para el pago de sueldos y otros gastos de los Miembros del Cuerpo de Salud y Sanidad mantenidos en Honduras por el Instituto , cuyos fondos serán administrados por el Instituto y no depositados a la orden del Servicio.- En lo que respecta a la proporción del aporte de Fondos para el desarrollo de las actividades del programa del Servicio Cooperativo , nuestro Gobierno ha expresado repetidas veces en pláticas personales que ha tenido el suscrito con algunos de los miembros del SCISP , que le sería materialmente imposible prorrogar el contrato en la proporción de uno a cinco como lo indica la nota de Su Excelencia el Señor Embajador Americano, y que ha sido resuelto por las autoridades del ramo en Washington. Nuestro actual Presupuesto General de Sanidad asigna la apropiación de L 150,000.00 para el año fiscal en curso, para el desarrollo de los proyectos con el Servicio Cooperativo ; y además, con fecha 31 de enero del año en curso, por Decreto N° 44, el Congreso Nacional estableció un sobreimpuesto aduanal destinando su producto al abastecimiento de agua potable para varias poblaciones de la República, que principiaría a cobrarse desde el 1 ° de julio recién pasado , pero, en ese Decreto se hicieron exenciones para el cobro , tales como sobre maquinaria pesada, sobre alambre espigado para cercas, y sobre la importación de mercaderías sujetas a Tratados Comerciales como los que tenemos en vigencia con el Gobierno de El Salvador y con el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América.- Como consecuencia de ésto, el producto de dicha renta, calculada en el Presupuesto en L 275,000.00 al año , con promedio de L 23,000.00 mensuales , solamente dió un rendimiento de L 6,382.02 en el mes de julio retropróximo, de lo que puede deducirse que su producto total será de unos L 75,000.00 en el año en curso.- Bien pues, si a los L150,000.00 que aparecen en el Presupuesto para el desarrollo de los proyectos con el Servicio Cooperativo se agregan L 75,000.00 como producto probable de las rentas nuevamente creadas para el abastecimiento de aguas, y otros L 75,000.00 con que, posiblemente, pudieran contribuir los diferentes Distritos y Municipalidades para los trabajos que llegaran a ejecutarse, según los proyectos que se aprueben , resultaría que la contribución probable del Gobierno llegaría a L 300,000.00 , lo que daría una proporción de uno a tres, si es que el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos aportara L 100,000.00 o su equivalente en dólares al 2 x 1 de cambio . - Pudiera resultar, naturalmente, en el decurso del año , que la renta nueva alcanzara a --- L 100,000.00 , y que los Distritos y Municipalidades estuvieran en capacidad de contribuir hasta con otros L 100,000.00 , lo que daría una proporción de uno a tres y medio entre las partes , pero eso es simplemente una probabilidad y no una seguridad para la participación del Gobierno . Si ese aumento se produjera desde luego estaría incluído en nuestro aporte. - Por todo

2731

2732

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
lo expuesto y en atención a razones de imposibilidad económica, sobre todo en este año, en que el presupuesto votado por el Congreso Nacional, debido al alto costo de vida en este país, tuvo un aumento de 25% a todos los sueldos de los servidores del Estado , a nuestro Gobierno le sería materialmente imposible contribuir en la proporción que menciona Su Excelencia el Señor Embajador Americano, con instrucciones del Departamento de Estado que proceden también del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos . - Nuestro Gobierno aprecia y agradece altamente la cooperación que le ofrece dicho Instituto por el beneficio que, para ambas partes, se deriva de dicha cooperación, y por ello es que nuestro Gobierno gustosamente hace la contrapropuesta que queda indicada. - Rogando al Señor Ministro trasmitir a Su Excelencia el Señor Embajador Americano los términos de este oficio, me suscribo con toda consideración por su muy atento y seguro servidor. (f) Julio Lozano h.- Al Señor Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores, Su Despacho ."
Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración,
JE. VALENZUELA.
J. E. Valenzuela .
Excelentísimo Señor HERBERT S. BURSLEY, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Embajada Americana.

Translation

DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

No. 362

TEGUCIGALPA, D.C. , July 26, 1949.

EXCELLENCY :

Ante, p. 2729.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note No. 127 dated the 21st instant, in connection with the

amended Basic Agreement concluded in July 1942 , between the
p. 621331S. tat . , Pt . 3 , Republic of Honduras and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , and in reply I have the honor to transcribe hereinbelow the following communication :

"MINISTRY OF INTERIOR, JUSTICE , SANITATION AND WELFARE . Tegucigalpa, D.C. , July 26 , 1949. - Communication No. 433. - Mr. Minister : I take the liberty of acknowledging receipt of your courteous communication dated the 25th instant, transcribing the note which you have received from His Excellency the American Ambassador and which refers to the advice that he has received from the Department of State, informing him that arrangements may now be made with the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for the extension of the program of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública , for a

period of one year, from June 30 , 1949 through June 30 , 1950 , for carrying out project activities of the program, it being understood that

63 STAT. ] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION-July 21 , 26, 1949 Aug. 18, 24, 1949
the contribution of the said Institute, during the period of extension , will be $ 50,000.00 in United States currency, on condition that our Government's contribution to the Servicio for the same purpose will be a sum not less than L. 500,000.00 . - It will also be understood that if our Government should not be in a position to contribute the aforesaid sum, then the Institute's contribution would be at the rate of one-fifth of the amount determined by the Honduran Government. Due note has been taken of the fact that the Institute is willing to continue making funds available for the payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Health and Sanitation field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Honduras, which funds will be administered by the Institute and not deposited to the account of the Servicio. - With respect to the proportion of the funds to be contributed for carrying out activities of the program of the Servicio Cooperativo, our Government has stated on several occasions in personal conversations held by the undersigned with some of the members of the SCISP , that it would be impossible for it to extend the contract at the rate of one to five as indicated by the note of His Excellency the American Ambassador, which rate has been determined by the appropriate authorities in Washington. - Our present General Budget for Sanitation allocates an appropriation of L. 150,000.00 for the current fiscal year for carrying out the Servicio Cooperativo projects ; and in addition , under date of January 31 of the present year, by Decree No. 44 , the National Congress established an additional custom duty, assigning the proceeds therefrom to the supplying of potable water for various towns in the Republic , the collection of which duty was to begin on the first of July last, but certain exemptions therefrom were made in that Decree, such as on heavy machinery, barbed wire for fences, and imports of articles covered by commercial treaties like those which we have concluded with the Government of El Salvador and with the Government of the United States of
America. - As a result of this , the proceeds from such source, estimated in the Budget at L. 275,000.00 per annum, with an average of L. 23,000.00 per month, amounted only to L. 6,382.02 in July last, from which it may be deduced that its total proceeds will be about L. 75,000.00 in the current year. Thus, if to the L. 150,000.00 included in the Budget for carrying out the Servicio Cooperativo projects there is added the sum of L. 75,000.00 as the probable proceeds from the newly created source of revenue for the water supply, plus another L. 75,000.00 which might possibly be contributed by the various districts and municipalities for the works actually constructed under the projects approved , the result would be that the probable contribution of the Government would amount to L. 300,000.00 , which would yield a rate of one to three if the Institute of Inter-American Affairs were to contribute L. 100,000.00 or its equivalent in dollars at the exchange rate of 2 to 1. - Of course, it might happen that in the course of the year the new revenue might reach L. 100,000.00 and that the districts and municipalities might be in a position to contribute up to another L. 100,000.00 , which would yield a rate of one to three and one-half between the parties , but this is simply a probability and not a

2733

2734

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
certainty for the participation of the Government. If such increase were registered, it would of course be included in our contribution . - In view of all the foregoing and for economic reasons , particularly this year, when because of the high cost of living in this country the budget voted by the National Congress included a 25 % increase in all salaries of government workers , it would be materially impossible for our Government to contribute at the rate mentioned by His Excellency the American Ambassador, under instructions from the Department of State which emanate also from the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. Our Government appreciates and is highly grateful for the cooperation offered to it by the Institute, because of the benefits which both parties derive from such cooperation, and it is for this reason that our Government willingly makes the counter-proposal set forth above. Requesting you, Mr. Minister, to be good enough to transmit the contents of this communication to His Excellency the American Ambassador, I remain, Respectfully yours. (s) Julio Lozano , Jr. - To the Minister of Foreign Relations - His Office. "
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
J. E. VALENZUELA.
J. E. Valenzuela. His Excellency
HERBERT S. BURSLEY, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America. American Embassy.

The Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES DE LA
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS

PALACIO NACIONAL:

No. 752.

Tegucigalpa, D.C. , 18 de agosto de 1949.

EXCELENCIA :

En relación con mi nota No. 362 de 26 de julio último , dirigida a

esa Honorable Embajada, tengo el honor de trascribir a Vuestra

Excelencia el oficio que dice:

"MINISTERIO DE GOBERNACION, JUSTICIA, SANIDAD Y BENE-

FICENCIA Of. No. 897- Tegucigalpa, D.C. , agosto 18 de 1949Señor Ministro : -Ruego a usted hacer saber a Su Excelencia el Señor Embajador Americano , los deseos de nuestro Gobierno de que el Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública (SCISP) continúe este año económico en curso con la administración del Sanatorio Nacional para Tuberculosos , conforme el Proyecto # 55 , a cuyo efecto ha sido aprobada la suma de (L. 214,880.00 ) DOSCIENTOS

July 21 , 26, 1949 62 STAT. ] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION
Aug. 18, 24, 1949
CATORCE MIL OCHOCIENTOS OCHENTA LEMPIRAS , valor que será incluído en el contrato de prórroga que se está considerando , si el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos le dá su aprobación- Del Señor Ministro, con toda consideración, muy atento y seguro servidor-- (f) JULIO LOZANO h.- Al Señor Ministro de Relaciones ExterioresSu Despacho."
En consecuencia, muy atentamente ruego a Vuestra Excelencia se sirva, si no hubiere inconveniente , comunicar a su ilustrado Gobierno los deseos expresados en el oficio anteriormente trascrito.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alto aprecio y distinguida consideración ,
J. E. VALENZUELA.
J. E. Valenzuela
Excelentísimo Señor HERBERT S. BURSLEY, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Embajada Americana.

2735

Translation

DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

No. 752. EXCELLENCY :

NATIONAL PALACE: Tegucigalpa, D.C. , August 18, 1949.

In connection with my note No. 362 of July 26 last, addressed to your Embassy , I have the honor to transcribe to Your Excellency the following communication:

Ante, p. 2732.

"MINISTRY OF INTERIOR, JUSTICE , SANITATION AND WELFARE.-- Communication No. 897.-Tegucigalpa, D.C. , August 18, 1949.Mr. Minister: I ask that you inform His Excellency the American Ambassador of our Government's desire that the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública (SCISP) continue during the present fiscal year with the administration of the National Tuberculosis Sanitarium, in accordance with Project #55 , to which purpose an allocation has been made in the amount of (L. 214,880.00 ) Two HUNDRED FOURTEEN THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED AND EIGHTY LEMPIRAS, which sum will be included in the extension agreement now under consideration , if the Institute of Inter-American Affairs approves it. Respectfully yours, (s) JULIO LOZANO, Jr.-To the Minister of Foreign Relations-His Office. "

Therefore, I respectfully ask Your Excellency , if there is no objection, to communicate to your Government the wishes expressed in the above-transcribed communication .

2736

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest esteem and most distinguished consideration.
J. E. VALENZUELA.
J. E. Valenzuela His Excellency
HERBERT S. BURSLEY, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. American Embassy.

The American Ambassador to the Honduran Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 143 EXCELLENCY :

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TEGUCIGALPA, D. C. , August 24 , 1949

It gives me pleasure to state that as a consequence of receipt of Your Excellency's kind note No. 752 of August 18, 1949 concerning the desire of the Honduran Government that the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Publica (SCISP) continue the administration of the National Tuberculosis Sanitorium during the current fiscal year, it is considered that an agreement between our two governments has been reached providing for the extension of the Basic Agreement, as amended, between the Government of Honduras and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs providing for the existing cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras.
Mr. John L. Hummel, Acting Chief of Party, has accordingly been authorized and requested to proceed with the execution of the extension agreement.
Please accept , Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

HERBERT S. BURSLEY

His Excellency Dr. J. EDGARDO VALENZUELA,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Tegucigalpa, D.C.

63 STAT. ] FRANCE-PASSPORT VISA FEES-MAR. 16, 31 , 1949

2737

Arrangement between the United States of America and France respecting passport visa fees. Effected by exchange of notes dated at Paris March 16 and 31 , 1949; entered into force March 31 , 1949.

March 16, 31, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1987]

The French Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

PG/AG

LIBERTÉ . ÉGALITÉ . FRATERNITÉ

MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE 283

DIRECTION DES CONVENTIONS ADMINISTRATIVES ET SOCIALES

N° C.A. 1

PARIS, le

Le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères présente ses compliments à
l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis et a l'honneur de lui faire savoir qu'à compter du 1er avril 1949, les citoyens des Etats-Unis peuvent, sur simple présentation de leur passeport national en cours de validité, entrer sans visa :

a) en France métropolitaine, en Andorre, en Algérie, au Maroc, à la Guadeloupe, à la Martinique, en Guyane, à la Réunion, en transit ou pour des séjours de un jour à trois mois.
b) en Tunisie, en transit ou pour des séjours de un jour à deux mois. Ils en sortent dans les mêmes conditions.

Les citoyens des Etats-Unis désireux de faire en France des séjours

supérieurs à trois mois consécutifs devront, avant leur départ, solliciter et obtenir un visa des autorités diplomatiques ou consulaires françaises

compétentes. Le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères apprendrait avec plaisir qu'à

partir de la même date, les citoyens français désireux de se rendre aux Etats- Unis, pour des séjours ne devant pas dépasser trois mois con-

sécutifs, pourront recevoir, s'ils le désirent, des visas gratuits valables

deux ans et pour un nombre de voyages illimité pendant cette période.

Le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères saisit cette occasion de renou-

veler à l'Ambassade des Etats- Unis les assurances de sa haute

considération ./.

AFFAI

DES

RES

16 Mar 1949 AMBASSADE DES ETATS-UNIS
Paris.

TER E

2738

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Translation

PG/AG MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND SOCIAL CONVENTIONS
No. C.A. 1

LIBERTY . EQUALITY . FRATERNITY FRENCH REPUBLIC 283
PARIS

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States and has the honor to inform it that, effective April 1, 1949, United States citizens may, simply by presenting their national passport during the period of its validity, enter without a visa :

( a) Metropolitan France, Andorra, Algeria , Morocco, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reunion , in transit or for stays of from one

day to three months. (b) Tunisia, in transit or for stays of from one day to two months.

They may leave under the same conditions. United States citizens wishing to spend more than three consecu-

tive months in France must, before their departure, request and obtain a visa from the competent French diplomatic or consular authorities.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs would be happy to learn that, effective the same date, French citizens wishing to go to the United States for stays of not more than three consecutive months may, if they so desire, receive gratis visas valid for two years and for an unlimited number of trips during that period.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Embassy of the United States the assurances of its high consideration.

March 16, 1949

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES Paris.

The American Embassy to the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs
No. 387
The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and has the honor to inform the Ministry that it is in receipt of telegraphic instructions from the Department of State in regard to the new visa arrangement between France and the United States which is to go into effect on April 1 , 1949.
The instructions state that the government of the United States is appreciative of the concessions made by the Government of France in removing, effective April 1 , 1949, the visa but not the passport requirements for American citizens, wherever they are resident, who are en-

63 STAT. ] FRANCE-PASSPORT VISA FEES- MAR. 16, 31 , 1949
tering the following French territories for a temporary visit : metropolitan France, the Republic of Andorra, Algeria , Morocco, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, Reunion and Tunisia.
The government of the United States desires to grant as nearly as possible, consistent with statutory and other restrictions, similar concessions to citizens of France applying for non- immigrant passport visas.
As of April 1 , 1949 , citizens of France resident in the above territories and in possession of valid French passports , who are eligible to receive visas as bona fide non-immigrants, will be granted gratis pass. port visas, and in the case of temporary visitors , the visas issued under Section 3 ( 2 ) only may be valid for twenty- four months, provided the passports of the bearers remain valid.
All the other non-immigrant passport visas granted to citizens of France residing in the above-mentioned territories, as well as diplomatic, official and international organization visas, will be issued without fee and may have a maximum validity of twelve months.
Citizens of France residing outside the above- mentioned territories are subject to the former French visa fee arrangement and the maximum validity of non-immigrant visas remains twelve months.
The period of stay in the United States which may be granted any aliens is determined by the immigration inspectors at the port of entry.
Citizens of the United States proceeding to French territories other than those mentioned above are subject to French visa requirements and the former fees.
This arrangement will be put into effect outside metropolitan France, the United Kingdom, Belgium , Switzerland , for citizens of France residing in the territories specified above but temporarily absent therefrom and proceeding to the United States, as soon as American consular officers can be notified.
CWG PARIS , March 31, 1949

2739

2740

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

June 10, 28, and July 12, 1949
[T. I. A. S. 1988]

Arrangement between the United States of America and Austria respecting passport visa fees . Effected by exchange of notes dated at Vienna June 10 and 28, and July 12 , 1949; entered into force July 15, 1949 .

The American Legation to the Austrian Federal Chancellery, Department of Foreign Affairs

No. 55

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

8 U. S. C. § 451. Period of validity.

The Legation of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Federal Chancellery, Department of Foreign Affairs, and has the honor to inform the Federal Chancellery that the Government of the United States understands that the Austrian Govern-
ment will consider the question of waiving visa requirements, but not passport requirements, for American citizens proceeding to Austria who desire to remain therein for a temporary period of time.
Even if the Austrian Government should decide to waive visa
requirements for American citizens proceeding to Austria, the Government of the United States would be unable to accord identical
courtesies to Austrian nationals proceeding to the United States and its possessions because of the provisions of Section 30, Alien Registration Act of 1940, approved June 28, 1940 ( 54 Stat. 673 ) , which require that each alien entering the United States, except in emergency cases in which the visa requirements may be waived by the Secretary of State, be in possession of a valid visa or other valid permit to enter. However, the Government of the United States will consider the question of granting passport visas without fees, to be valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States within a period of twenty-four months, instead of the present twelve-month period of validity of such visas, to Austrian nationals who are proceeding to the United States and its possessions for business or pleasure purposes and who are bona fide non-immigrants within the meaning of the immigration laws of the United States, provided the Austrian passport of each bearer remains valid during the period of validity of the visa.
All other classes of non-immigrant passport visas granted Austrian nationals will continue to be valid, as at present, for a period of twelve months, provided the Austrian passport of each bearer remains valid for that period of time.
The period of validity of a visa relates only to the period within which it may be used in connection with an application for admission at a port of entry into the United States and its posses-

63 STAT.] AUSTRIA- PASSPORT VISA FEES- June 10, 28, 1949 July 12, 1949

2741

sions, and not to the length of stay in the United States which may

be permitted the bearer after he is admitted . The period of stay will,

as at present, continue to be determined by the Immigration authorities.
A fee for an immigration visa and application therefor to permit an alien to apply for admission into the United States with the

Fee for immigration visa.

privilege of residing permanently therein is $ 10.00. The amount of this fee is prescribed by the Immigration Act of 1924, and it may not be changed on the basis of a reciprocal arrangement.

43 Stat. 153. 8 U. S. C. §201 note.

The Legation would appreciate being informed as soon as con-

veniently possible whether the arrangement proposed by the Gov-

ernment of the United States meets with the approval of the Austrian Government.

GWR

VIENNA, June 10, 1949.

To the FEDERAL CHANCELLERY,

Department of Foreign Affairs, Vienna.

2742

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

The Austrian Federal Chancellery, Department of Foreign Affairs, to the American Legation

BUNDESKANZLERAMT AUSWÄRTIGE ANGELEGENHEITEN
21. 139.051-6RR/49 .

WIEN,

Verbal a

Mit Bezug auf die Verbalnote der Gesandtschaft der Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika No 55 vom 10. Juni 1.J. beehrt sich das Bundeskanzleramt , Auswärtige Angelegenheiten , zur Kenntnis zu bringen , dass österreichischerseits dem von der Regierung der Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika vorgeschlagenen Arrangement zugestimmt und der 15. Juli 1.J. als Tag für dessen Inkraftsetzung in Aussicht genommen wird.
Das Bundeskanzleramt , Auswärtige Angelegenheiten, benützt gerne den Anlass , um der Gesandtschaft der Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika die Versicherung ausgezeichneter Hochachtung zu erneuern.
Wien , am 28O.S Juni 1949. TER REI CE
Angel
An die Gesandtschaft der Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika,
zu Handen des Leg.Sekr . George W.Renchard, Wien .

ramtheiten

g uswärti Butdes

63 STAT. ] AUSTRIA-PASSPORT VISA FEES- June 10, 28, 1949 July 12, 1949

Translation
FEDERAL CHANCELLERY DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS Zl. 139.051 . - 6RR/49.
Note Verbale.

VIENNA,

With reference to note verbale No. 55 of June 10, 1949 , from the Legation of the United States of America, the Federal Chancellery, Department of Foreign Affairs, has the honor to notify you that the arrangement proposed by the Government of the United States of
America has been approved by Austria and that July 15, 1949 , is contemplated as the date for putting it into effect.
The Federal Chancellery, Department of Foreign Affairs, is pleased to avail itself of the opportunity to renew to the Legation of the United States of America the assurances of its highest consideration .
VIENNA, June 28, 1949. REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA FEDERAL CHANCELLERY DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

THE LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, Attention : Secretary of Legation GEORGE W. RENCHARD, Vienna.

2743

The American Legation to the Austrian Federal Chancellery, Department of Foreign Affairs

No. 69

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Legation of the United States of America presents its com-

pliments to the Federal Chancellery, Department of Foreign Affairs, and with reference to the latter's Note No. Zl.139.051-6RR/49, of June 28, 1949, has the honor to state that the Department of State agrees that July 15, 1949 , be made the effective date of the agreement between the Austrian Government and the Government of the United States, by which visa requirements, but not passport requirements, will be waived for American citizens proceeding to Austria . On its part the Government of the United States agrees to grant passport visas without fees, to be valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States within a period of 24 months, instead of the present 12 month period of validity of such visas, to Austrian nationals who are proceeding to the United States and its possessions, for business or pleasure purposes and who are bona fide non-immigrants within the meaning of the immigration laws of the United States , provided the Austrian passport of each bearer remains valid during the period of validity of the visas.
GWR VIENNA, July 12, 1949.
To the FEDERAL CHANCELLERY,

Department of Foreign Affairs, Vienna.

Effective date.

2744

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

July 26 and August 30, 1949
[T. I. A. S. 1991]

Agreement between the United States of America and Paraguay amending and extending the agreement of March 8, 1948, respecting a cooperative education program in Paraguay. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Asunción July 26 and August 30, 1949; entered into force September 1 , 1949, operative retroactively July 1 , 1949.
The American Ambassador to the Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship

No. 106

ASUNCIÓN, July 26, 1949.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended, entered into in March 1945 [ 1 ] between the Republic of Paraguay and

p.622827S.tat . , Pt . 3 ,
Extension of program .

the predecessor of The Institute of Inter- American Affairs, providing for the existing cooperative education program in Paraguay. I also refer to Your Excellency's note D.P. y D. number 852 of July 22, 1949 [2] suggesting the consideration by our respective governments of a further extension of that Agreement.
Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government

of Paraguay that an extension of the program beyond its present termination date of June 30, 1949 would be desirable. Accordingly,

I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that

arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its par-

stiCtountter. ibution by In-

ticipation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30 , 1949 through June 30, 1950. It would be understood that, during this period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of

$25,000, in the currency of the United States, to the Servicio Coopera-

tivo Interamericano de Educación, for use in carrying out project

activities of the program, on condition that your Government would

Additional funds.

contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of Guaraníes 212,075.85. The Institute would also be willing during the same

extension period to make available funds to be administered by the

Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for pay-

ment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Education

Division field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Paraguay.

The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already re-

quired under the present Basic Agreement, as amended, to be con-

tributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the

program.

1 Not printed. This agreement was amended and superseded by the agreement
signed Mar. 8, 1948.
'Not printed.

63 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION July 26, Aug. 30, 1949

The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force
on the date of signature [ ¹ ] of an agreement by the Minister of Education and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details.
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible, in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Education, and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

His Excellency BERNARDO OCAMPOS,

FLETCHER WARREN American Ambassador

Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship, Asunción.

The Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

D. P. y D.No 1004. -

ASUNCIÓN, 30 de agosto de 1949.-

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR : Con referencia a la nota N° 106 , de fecha 26 de Julio del corriente
año de esa representación diplomática, me es grato dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia, para transcribirle la comunicación recibida del Ministerio de Educación, que dice así :

"Asunción, 23 de agosto de 1949. - N° 214. - Señor Ministro : Tengo el agrado de dirigirme a V.E. , en contestación a su nota D.P.y D. N° 869 de fecha 29 de Julio ppdo. , para expresarle la conformidad de este Ministerio con las condiciones estipuladas en la nota N° 106 de fecha 26 de Julio de 1949, de la Embajada Americana con respecto a la prórroga del Convenio suscrito entre el Ministerio de Educación y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, División de Educación. Aprovecho la oportunidad para saludar a V. E. con mi mejor consideración. - Firmado : J. Eulogio Estigarribia-Ministro. - A S.E. el Sr. Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto, Dr. Bernardo Ocampos. - E.S.D."

¹ Sept. 1, 1949.

2745

2746 Ante, p. 2744.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para saludar a Vuestra Excelencia con mi consideración distinguida. -
B. OCAMPOS
A Su Excelencia El Señor FLETCHER WARREN Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los EE. UU. de América Presente.-

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP
D.P. y D. No. 1004.-
MR. AMBASSADOR :

ASUNCIÓN, August 30, 1949.

With reference to your Embassy's note No. 106, dated July 26 of this year, I have the honor to address Your Excellency in order to transcribe for you a communication received from the Ministry of Education, reading as follows :
"Asunción, August 23, 1949. No. 214. Mr. Minister : I have the pleasure of addressing Your Excellency in reply to your note D.P. y D. No. 869 of July 29 last, in order to inform you of this Ministry's acceptance of the conditions set forth in the American Embassy's note No. 106 of July 26, 1949, with respect to the extension of the Agreement concluded between the Ministry of Education and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, Division of Education . I avail myself of this opportunity to assure Your Excellency of my highest consideration. Signed : J. Eulogio Estigarribia, Minister. To His Excellency Dr. Bernardo Ocampos, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Worship. E.S.D."

I take this opportunity to express to Your Excellency the assurances of my distinguished consideration.
B. OCAMPOS
His Excellency FLETCHER WARREN Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America City. -

63 STAT. ]

PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION--AUG. 17, 18, 1949

2747

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a cooperative food production program in Peru, modifying and extending the agreement of May 19 and 20, 1943, as modified and extended . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima August 17 and 18, 1949; entered into force August 18, 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1949.

Aug. 17, 18, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1993]

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 570 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, Perú, August 17, 1949.

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended ,

entered into on May 19, 1943 between the Republic of Perú and

the

Institute

of

Inter-American

Affairs ,

providing

for the

existing

57 Stat. 1405; 58 Stat. 1484; 1 Stat, pt. 3,

cooperative food production program in Perú . I also refer to Your PPpt.. 331,2p3., 33352864;. 62 Stat.,

Excellency's note of August 9 , 1949 ['] suggesting the consideration

by our respective governments of a further extension of that Agreement .
Considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government

Extension of program .

of Perú that an extension of the program beyond its present termina-

tion date of June 30 , 1949 would be desirable. Accordingly, I have

been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrange-

ments may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation

in the program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1949 through

June 30, 1950.

It would

be

understood

that,

during

this

period

of

Contribution by Institute.

extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $ 150,000 , in the

currency of the United States, to the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-

Americano de Producción de Alimentos , for use in carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of S/. 4,724,400 . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Food Supply Division field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Perú. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already

Additional funds.

required under the present Basic Agreement, as amended, to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the

program . The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments , which shall come into

1 Not printed.

2748

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
force on the date of signature [ ] of an agreement by the Minister of Agriculture and a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible in order that the Minister of Agriculture and the representative of the United States Government may sign the Extension Agreement.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
HAROLD H. TITTMANN
His Excellency Capitán de Navio don ERNESTO RODRÍGUEZ , Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

No: (D) 6-3/63

LIMA, 18 de agosto de 1949.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR:

Tengo a honra avisar recibo a Vuestra Excelencia de la atenta nota de esa Embajada Nº 570, de 17 del presente , relativa a la prórroga del Programa Cooperativo de Producción de Alimentos hasta el 30

de junio de 1950. Cumplo con expresar a Vuestra Excelencia que, debidamente
consultado el Ministerio de Agricultura, éste me ha trasmitido su aprobación a las condiciones que para la prórroga se establecen en la nota de esa Embajada que contesto ; quedando , por tanto , el presente cambio de notas como un convenio entre ambos gobiernos para entrar en vigor en la fecha en que se suscriba la prórroga del Programa por el Ministro de Agricultura y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos.

Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
E. RODRÍGUEZ Al Excelentísimo Señor HAROLD H. TITTMANN,

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América.

Ciudad.

1¹ Aug. 18, 1949.

63 STAT.]

PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION-AUG. 17, 18, 1949

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No: (D) 6-3/63

LIMA, August 18, 1949.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note No. 570 of the 17th instant, concerning the extension of the Food Production Cooperative Program through June 30 , 1950.
I should inform Your Excellency that, after a consultation with the

Ministry of Agriculture, the latter transmitted to me its approval of the conditions for the extension which are set forth in your Embassy's

note to which I am replying. The present exchange of notes is, therefore, to be considered as constituting an agreement between both Governments which will come into force on the date of signature of

the extension of the Program by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the

assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

E. RODRÍGUEZ

His Excellency HAROLD H. TITTMANN, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America. City.

2749

2750

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

Mar. 29 and Aug. 15, 1949 (T. I. A. 8. 1995]

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting a cooperative weather stations program in Mexico , superseding previous agreements . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Mexico, D.F. , March 29 and August 15, 1949; entered into force October 20, 1949, operative retroactively from July 1 , 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Acting Minister for Foreign Relations

EMBASSY OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 3045

México, D. F., March 29, 1949.

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to conversations which have taken place between representatives of the Government of the United States of

America and representatives of the Government of the United Mexican

States regarding the desirability of continuing the cooperative program established in 1942 for the establishment and operation of surface,

winds aloft, and radiosonde observation stations in Mexico.

Continuation ofprogram .

It is my understanding that these conversations have resulted in

agreement upon a program for continuation of a cooperative meteor-

ological observation program to be carried on by the Weather Bureau,

Department of Commerce, on behalf of the Government of the

United States of America and by the Mexican Meteorological Service

on behalf of the Government of the United Mexican States, in accord-

ance with the following principles :

1. Cooperating Agencies - The cooperating agencies shall be ( 1) for the Government of the United States of America, the Weather Bureau, Department of Commerce, hereinafter referred to as the United States Cooperating Agency, and (2) for the Government of the United Mexican States, the Mexican Meteorological Service , hereinafter referred to as the Mexican Cooperating Agency.
2. General Purposes - The general purposes of the present agreement shall be as follows :

(a) To provide for the establishment, operation, and maintenance of meteorological stations, at strategical locations in Mexico selected by mutual arrangement between the two Cooperating Agencies, for securing reports of regularly scheduled surface, winds aloft, and radiosonde observations ; and
(b) To provide for the daily exchange of surface and upper-air observation reports between the two Cooperating Agencies for the use of the respective countries , particularly to meet the needs of aviation and to make it possible for the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Mexican States to assist in the development of a continental exchange of weather information and forecasts and hurricane advisories .

Mar. 29, 1949 63 STAT. ] MEXICO- COOPERATIVE WEATHER STATIONS- Aug. 15, 1949

2751

3. Title to Property - Title to all property purchased with funds supplied by the United States Cooperating Agency shall remain vested in that Agency, and title to all property supplied by the Mexican Cooperating Agency shall remain vested in that Agency.
4. Expenditures - All expenditures incurred by the United States Cooperating Agency shall be paid directly by the Government of the United States of America, and all expenditures incident to the obligations assumed by the Mexican Cooperating Agency shall be paid directly by the Government of the United Mexican States .
5. Effect on Earlier Agreements - It is understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that the present agreement supersedes the following agreements :

(a) Agreement between the United States of America and the United Mexican States relating to the establishment in Mexico of radiosonde observation stations, effected by exchange of notes

signed at México , D. F. , on October 13 and 20 and November 10, 1942 , as amended and extended by agreement effected by exchange of notes signed at México , D. F. , on May 12 and June 16 , 21 and 28, 1945 ;
(b) Agreement between the United States of America and the

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 4281.
61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 4276.

United Mexican States relating to the establishment and operation

of nine meteorological stations in Mexico, effected by exchange of

notes signed at México , D. F. , on May 18 and June 14, 1943 ;

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 4053.

(c) Agreement between the United States of America and the

United Mexican States relating to the establishment and operation

of a meteorological station on Guadalupe Island , Baja California

effected by exchange of notes signed at México , D. F. , on November

6, 1945 and April 12 , 1946.

6.

Term The

present

agreement

shall

remain

in

effect

through

61 Stat . , Pt. 4, p. 4060.

June 30, 1951 and may be continued in force for additional periods by written agreement to that effect by the two Governments , but either Government may terminate the present agreement by giving to the other Government notice in writing sixty days in advance. Participa-

tion on the part of either Government in the project contemplated by

the present agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds - appropriated by the legislative bodies of the respective Governments .
If the above principles meet with the approval of the Government of the United Mexican States , I should appreciate receiving Your

Excellency's reply to that effect as soon as possible in order that the

technical details may be arranged by officials of the two Cooperating

Agencies .

Upon the conclusion of an arrangement between the two Cooperating Agencies embodying the above-mentioned technical details , ['] such arrangement to be subject to amendment at any time by concurrence between the two Cooperating Agencies , the Government of the United States of America will consider the present note and your reply con-

1 Signed Oct. 20, 1949. 81939-52- PT. III- -29

2752

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
curring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall be considered effective from July 1 , 1948 .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
WALTER THURSTON
His Excellency Señor Don MANUEL TELLO , Acting Minister for Foreign Relations, México, D.F.

The Mexican Acting Minister for Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO

511861

MÉXICO , D.F. , a 15 de agosto de 1949.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo el honor de hacer referencia a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 3045 , de fecha 29 de marzo de 1949 , sobre la conveniencia de

continuar el programa de cooperación iniciado en 1942 , relativo al establecimiento , así como la operación, de estaciones para radiosondeo

y observación de vientos de superficie o de altura en México .

Tomando en cuenta que la cooperación meteorológica ha sido mutuamente ventajosa , para México y los Estados Unidos de América,

me permito manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno está conforme en que se celebre un Acuerdo que tenga por objeto continuar el referido programa, según los principios siguientes :

1.- Oficinas de Cooperación. Las oficinas de cooperación serán: (1 ) por parte del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos , el Servicio Meteorológico Mexicano , al que de aquí en adelante se llamará "la Oficina Mexicana de Cooperación" , y (2 ) por parte del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, la Oficina Meteorológica del Departamento de Comercio, a la que en lo sucesivo se denominará "la Oficina Norteamericana de Cooperación".
2.- Propósitos Generales. Los propósitos generales del presente Acuerdo serán los siguientes :

(a) Encargarse del establecimiento , operación y mantenimiento de estaciones meteorológicas en sitios estratégicos de México , que serán escogidos de común acuerdo por las dos oficinas de cooperación, para obtener información sobre observaciones periódicas de radiosondeo , vientos de superficie y vientos de altura; y
(b) Encargarse del intercambio diario, entre las dos oficinas de cooperación, de informes sobre observaciones de vientos de superficie y de altura para uso de ambos países , especialmente en lo que respecta a las necesidades de la aviación, y con el objeto de hacer posible que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos contribuyan al desa-

Mar. 29, 1949 63 STAT. ] MEXICO- COOPERATIVE WEATHER STATIONS- Aug. 15, 1949
rrollo de un intercambio continental de información meteorológica y de pronósticos sobre la formación y trayecto de huracanes.
3. Título de Propiedad . La Oficina Mexicana de Cooperación conservará la propiedad de los bienes que proporcione, y el título de propiedad de todos los efectos que se adquieran con fondos suministrados por la Oficina Norteamericana de Cooperación, será retenido por dicho organismo .
4.- Gastos . Todos los gastos que originen las obligaciones asumidas por la Oficina Mexicana de Cooperación, serán cubiertos directamente por el Gobierno Mexicano y los que origine la Oficina Norteamericana de Cooperación serán sufragados por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América.
5. - Efectos sobre Acuerdos Anteriores. Queda entendido y convenido por ambas partes que el presente Acuerdo suple a los siguientes :
(a) Acuerdo entre los Estados Unidos Mexicanos y los Estados Unidos de América relativo a la instalación en México de estaciones de radiosondeo , efectuado mediante un canje de notas en México, D.F. , el 13 y 20 de octubre y el 10 de noviembre de 1942 , enmendado y prorrogado por acuerdo que se llevó a cabo mediante un nuevo canje de notas en esta ciudad el 12 de mayo y los días 16 , 21 y 28 de junio de 1945 ;
(b) Acuerdo entre los Estados Unidos Mexicanos y los Estados Unidos de América para el establecimiento y operación de nueve estaciones meteorológicas en México , llevado a efecto mediante un canje de notas en México , D.F. el 18 de mayo y el 14 de junio de 1943 ;
(c) Acuerdo entre los Estados Unidos Mexicanos y los Estados Unidos de América para la creación y funcionamiento de una estación meteorológica en la Isla de Guadalupe, Baja California , celebrado por un canje de notas en México , D.F. , el 6 de noviembre de 1945 y el 12 de abril de 1946.
6. Vigencia. El presente convenio permanecerá en vigor hasta el 30 de junio de 1951 y podrá ser prorrogado por períodos adicionales mediante acuerdo escrito entre ambos Gobiernos, pero cualquiera de los dos podrá darlo por terminado si presenta una notificación escrita al otro Gobierno con sesenta días de anticipación. La participación de cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos en el programa a que se refiere el presente Acuerdo , dependerá de la posibilidad de disponer de fondos asignados para tal objeto , por los órganos legislativos de los respectivos Gobiernos .
Una vez que las dos Oficinas de Cooperación firmen el Memorandum para Acuerdo , en el que figuran los detalles técnicos del programa y el cual puede ser modificado en cualquier momento , previo arreglo entre las Oficinas mencionadas , el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos considerará la nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 3045 y la presente, como el Acuerdo entre nuestros dos Gobiernos, en vigor a partir del 1º de julio de 1948 .

2753

2754 Ante, p. 2750.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Por lo tanto , ruego a Vuestra Excelencia se sirva enviarme los ejemplares del aludido Memorándum redactados en idioma inglés, los cuales devolveré a la Embajada debidamente firmados por el Jefe del Servicio Meteorológico Mexicano , a fin de que, con las copias en español , sean autorizados por el funcionario respectivo de vuestro Gobierno .
Aceptad Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta consideración . MANUEL TELLO
Excelentísimo Señor WALTER THURSTON, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO

511861

MÉXICO, D.F. , August 15, 1949.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note No. 3045 , dated

March 29, 1949, concerning the desirability of continuing the cooperative program initiated in 1942 for the establishment and operation of surface, winds aloft, and radiosonde observation stations in Mexico.
Considering that the meteorological cooperation has been mutually beneficial for Mexico and the United States of America, I take the

liberty of informing Your Excellency that my Government is willing to enter into an agreement for the continuation of the said program , in accordance with the following principles :

1. Cooperating Agencies - The cooperating agencies shall be : (1) for the Government of the United Mexican States, the Mexican Meteorological Service, hereinafter referred to as "the Mexican Cooperating Agency," and (2) for the Government of the United States of America, the Weather Bureau , Department of Commerce, hereinafter referred to as "the United States Cooperating Agency."
2. General Purposes - The general purposes of the present Agreement shall be as follows :

(a) To provide for the establishment, operation, and maintenance of meteorological stations, at strategical locations in Mexico selected by mutual arrangement between the two cooperating agencies, for securing reports of regularly scheduled surface, winds aloft, and radiosonde observations ; and
(b) To provide for the daily exchange of surface and upper-air observation reports between the two cooperating agencies for the use of the respective countries , particularly to meet the needs of aviation and to make it possible for the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Mexican

Mar. 29, 1949
63 STAT.] MEXICO-COOPERATIVE WEATHER STATIONSAug. 15, 1949

2755

States to assist in the development of a continental exchange of weather information and forecasts and hurricane advisories.

3. Title to Property - Title to all property supplied by the Mexican Cooperating Agency shall remain vested in that agency, and title to all property purchased with funds supplied by the United States Cooperating Agency shall remain vested in that Agency.
4. Expenditures - All expenditures incident to the obligations assumed by the Cooperating Agency shall be paid directly by the Mexican Government, and the expenditures incurred by the United States Cooperating Agency shall be paid directly by the Government of the United States of America.
5. Effect on Earlier Agreements - It is understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that the present agreement supersedes the following agreements :

(a) Agreement between the United States of America and the

United Mexican States relating to the establishment in Mexico of

radiosonde observation stations, effected by exchange of notes

signed at México , D.F. , on October 13 and 20 and November 10, 1942 , as amended by agreement effected by exchange of notes signed at México , D.F. , on May 12 and June 16 , 21 and 28 , 1945 ;

61 Stat. Pt . 4,
p. 4281 . 61 Stat ., Pt . 4 ,
p. 4276.

(b) Agreement between the United Mexican States and the

United States of America relating to the establishment and opera-

tion of nine meteorological stations in Mexico , effected by exchange

of notes signed at México , D.F. , on May 18 and June 14 , 1943 ;

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 4053.

(c) Agreement between the United Mexican States and the United States of America relating to the establishment and opera-

tion of a meteorological station on Guadalupe Island , Lower

California, effected by exchange of notes signed at México , D.F. , on

November 6 , 1945 and April 12 , 1946.

61 Stat . , Pt. 4 , p. 4060.

6. Term - The present agreement shall remain in effect through

June 30, 1951 and may be continued in force for additional periods by

written agreement to that effect by the two Governments , but either Government may terminate the present Agreement by giving to the other Government notice in writing sixty days in advance. Participation on the part of either Government in the project contemplated by

the present Agreement shall be subject to the availability of funds appropriated by the legislative bodies of the respective Governments.

Upon the signature by the two Cooperating Agencies of the Memorandum Agreement embodying the technical details of the program ,

such arrangement to be subject to amendment at any time by concurrence between the two Cooperating Agencies , the Government of the United Mexican States will consider Your Excellency's note No. 3045 and the present note as constituting an agreement between our

Ante, p. 2750.

two Governments , which shall be effective from July 1 , 1948 .

Therefore, I request Your Excellency to be good enough to send me the copies of the said Memorandum drafted in English, which I

shall return to the Embassy , duly signed by the Chief of the Mexican Meteorological Service, in order that they may be approved,

2756

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
together with the copies in Spanish, by the appropriate official of your Government .
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration . MANUEL TELLO
His Excellency WALTER THURSTON, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.

63 STAT.]

July 21 , 1949 COSTA RICA- FOOD PRODUCTION-
Aug. 18, 1949

2757

Agreement between the United States of America and Costa Rica respecting a cooperative food production program in Costa Rica, amending and extending the agreement of August 27 and October 5, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at San José July 21 and August 18, 1949; entered into force August 22, 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1949.

July 21 and August 18, 1949
[T. I. A. S. 1996)

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Costa Rican Minister of Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 108 EXCELLENCY:

SAN JOSE, July 21 , 1949

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended ,

entered into in October 1942 between the Republic of Costa Rica and

The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , providing for the existing cooperative program of agriculture in Costa Rica. [ ] I also refer to

Your Excellency's note no. 5937-B of July 1 , 1949 [2] suggesting the

consideration by our respective governments of a further extension of that Agreement.
Considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my government agrees with the Government of Costa Rica that an extension of the program beyond its

Extension gram .

of pro

present termination date of June 30, 1949 would be desirable. Accord-

ingly, I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its

participation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30 ,

1949 through June 30 , 1950. It would be understood that, during this period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $ 125,000.00, in the currency of the United States, to the Servicio Tecnico Inter-Americano de Cooperación Agricola , for use in carrying

Contribution by Institute.

out project activities of the program, on condition that Your Excellency's Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of 700,000.00 (colones) . The Institute would also

Additional funds.

be willing, during the same extension period , to make available funds to be administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the

account of the Servicio , for payment of salaries and other expenses

of the members of the Food Supply Division field staff who are

maintained by the Institute in Costa Rica . The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement , as amended , to be contributed and made available by the parties in the furtherance of the program .

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 2048; 62 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3916.

The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and Your Excellency's reply concurring therein as

¹ For the text of the agreement extending the program until June 30, 1949, see 62 Stat. , Pt. 3, p . 3916.
2 Not printed .

2758

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

constituting an agreement between our two governments , which shall come into force on the date of signature [ ] of an agreement by the Minister of Agriculture and Industries and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the abovementioned technical details .

If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to Your Excellency's Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and Industries and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest

and most distinguished consideration .

ANDREW E DONOVAN II

Andrew E. Donovan II

His Excellency BENJAMÍN ODIO,
Minister of Foreign Affairs, San José.

Chargé d'Affaires a . i.

The Costa Rican Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
REPUBLICA DE COSTA RICA MINISTERIO
DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

No 7189-B

SAN JOSE, 18 de agosto de 1949

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Con ruego de que se sirva prestarle la atención que Su Excelencia estime pertinente, me es honroso trascribirle la nota del Ministerio de Agricultura e Industrias que a la letra dice :

"N° 3919- Agosto 17 de 1949.- Señor Lic . don Benjamín Odio, Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores. Presente .
Muy señor mío:
Por este medio me permito hacer de su conocimiento y con el objeto de que usted lo comunique así a la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América en nuestro país, que el Gobierno de Costa Rica por medio del Ministerio de Agricultura e Industrias ha acordado prorrogar por el término de un año más, los contratos existentes con el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, para formar el Servicio Técnico Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola (STICA) .-
Por lo tanto rogamos a usted su valiosa intervención a fin de que por su digno medio, la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América, autorice al señor Director de STICA Sr. Howard M. Gabbert para suscribir en su oportunidad , los contratos en referencia .

1 Aug. 22, 1949.

63 STAT. ]

COSTA RICA- FOOD PRODUCTION- July 21, 1949 Aug. 18, 1949

Al agradecer a usted la atención que se sirva dar a la presente, aprovecho la oportunidad para suscribirme su
Atento y seguro servidor , (f) Bruce Masís D. , Ministro de Agricultura e Industrias."

Sírvase aceptar, Excelencia, el renovado testimonio de mi consideración más alta y distinguida,
BENJAMÍN ODIO
Excelentísimo Señor JOSEPH FLACK, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Embajada Americana, Ciudad

Translation
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS
AND WORSHIP

No. 7189-B

SAN JOSÉ, August 18, 1949

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to transcribe herein word for word the following

note from the Ministry of Agriculture and Industries, and to request that Your Excellency be good enough to give it the attention which

you may consider pertinent :

"No. 3919- August 17, 1949. Mr. Benjamín Odio , Minister of Foreign Affairs . City. Sir:
By this means I have the honor to inform you, in order that you in turn may so inform the Embassy of the United States of America in our country, that the Government of Costa Rica , through the Ministry of Agriculture and Industries, has agreed to extend for a period of another year existing contracts with the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for project activities of the Servicio Técnico Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola (STICA) .
We therefore request your valuable intervention in order that through you the Embassy of the United States of America may authorize Mr. Howard M. Gabbert, Director of STICA, to sign the aforementioned contracts at the proper time.
Thanking your for the attention which you may be good enough to give to this note, I am

Very respectfully yours,

Bruce Masís D. , Minister of Agriculture and Industries . "

Accept , Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most

distinguished consideration ,

BENJAMÍN ODIO

His Excellency JOSEPH FLACK,

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the United States of America, American Embassy, City
81939-52 - PT. III- -30

2759

2760

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

July 26, 28, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 1998]

Agreement between the United States of America and Colombia respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia , modifying and extending the agreement of October 23, 1942, as amended and extended . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Bogotá July 26 and 28, 1949; entered into force August 4, 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1949.

The American Ambassador to the Colombian Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 505 EXCELLENCY:

BOGOTÁ, July 26, 1949.

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended ,

Pt5.73S,tpat. 2. 8183100;;6621 SSttaatt..,, Pt. 3, p. 3880.

entered into in October 1942 between the Republic of Colombia and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , providing for the exist-
ing health and sanitation program in Colombia. I also refer to

Your Excellency's note of June 28 , 1949 , [ ' ] suggesting the considera-

tion by our respective Governments of a further extension of that

Agreement .

Extension of program .

Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are

deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Govern-

ment of Colombia that an extension of the program beyond its

present termination date of June 30, 1949, would be desirable . Ac-

cordingly, I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to

stCitountter. ibution by In Additional funds.

continue its participation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30 , 1949 , through June 30 , 1950. " It would be understood that, during this period of extension , the Institute would make a contribution of $ 100,000 in the currency of the United States, to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública, for use in carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of 1,960,000 pesos. The Institute would also be willing, during the same extension period, to make available funds to be

administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio , for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Health and Sanitation Division field staff who are main-

tained by the Institute in Colombia . The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement, as amended, to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting

1 Not printed.

63 STAT.] COLOMBIA- HEALTH AND SANITATION JULY 26, 28, 1949
an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature [ ] of an agreement by the Minister of Hygiene and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible, in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Hygiene and The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs .
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
WILLARD L. BEAULAC
His Excellency Señor doctor don ELISEO ARANGO , Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs, Bogotá, Colombia.

The Colombian Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

OI 2348 SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

BOGOTÁ, julio 28 de 1949

Tengo el honor de avisar recibo a Vuestra Excelencia de la nota N° 505 del 26 de julio de 1949 , referente al Acuerdo básico reformado , suscrito en el mes de octubre de 1942 entre la República de Colombia y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos para el desarrollo de un programa de sanidad y de higiene pública en este país . De igual manera se refiere esta nota a la anterior de Vuestra Excelencia de 28

de junio de 1949 , por medio de la cual propuso a la consideración del Gobierno de Colombia la prórroga de este Acuerdo .
Vuestra Excelencia ha creído oportuno informarme, sobre este particular, que en vista de los mutuos beneficios que derivan nuestros respectivos Gobiernos del Programa mencionado, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, aceptaría una prórroga de dicho Programa más allá de la fecha señalada para su terminación o sea el 30 de junio de 1949 y que de este modo el nuevo periodo del acuerdo básico sería el comprendido entre el 30 de junio de 1949 y la misma fecha del año venidero . Por último me hace saber Vuestra Excelencia que durante este último periodo el Instituto hará una contribución de $ 100.000.00 en moneda de los Estados Unidos de América para el sostenimiento del servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública bajo la condición de que el Gobierno de Colombia contribuya para el mismo servicio con la misma finalidad con la suma de $ 1.960.000.00 en moneda de la República de Colombia.

¹ Aug. 4, 1949 .

2761

2762
Ante, p. 2760 57 Stat. 1310.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
También he tomado nota de que el Instituto se encuentra dispuesto, durante el nuevo periodo de prórroga del Acuerdo, a utilizar los fondos que dicha entidad administra y que no están depositados en la cuenta del Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública , para los fines del pago de los salarios y de otros gastos de los miembros del personal de la División de Sanidad e Higiene mantenidos por el Instituto en Colombia. Estas sumas serán consideradas como gastos adicionales a las sumas requeridas para el cumplimiento del Acuerdo.
Me complace manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que sobre las bases expresadas en la nota que contesto y a las cuales me he referido en los párrafos anteriores de esta nota , el Gobierno de la República de Colombia acepta una nueva prórroga del Acuerdo básico, reformado suscrito con el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos y para un periodo de un año a contar del 30 de junio de 1949 hasta el 30 de junio de 1950.
Ruego a Vuestra Excelencia considerar esta nota como aceptación formal de mi Gobierno para la prórroga del Acuerdo mencionado , cuya entrada en vigencia requerirá la firma de un acuerdo complementario entre el señor Ministro de Higiene de la República de Colombia y un representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos para determinar las cuestiones de carácter técnico .
Encarezco a Vuestra Excelencia transmitir el contenido de la presente nota al Departamento de Estado de los Estados Unidos de América y al Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos. A mi vez me he dirigido al señor Ministro de Higiene para informarle de la aceptación expresada en esta nota con el objeto de que esté en capacidad de iniciar las conversaciones oficiales con el representante del mencionado instituto .
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
ELISEO ARANGO .
A Su Excelencia el Señor WILLARD L. BEAULAC, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América La Ciudad.

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
OI 2348

Translation BOGOTÁ, July 28, 1949

MR . AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's note No. 505 of July 26 , 1949 , concerning the amended Basic Agreement, signed in October 1942 between the Republic of Colombia and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for carrying out a health and public hygiene program in this country . This note also refers to

Your Excellency's note of June 28 , 1949 , by means of which you proposed an extension of this Agreement for the consideration of the Government of Colombia.

63 STAT. ] COLOMBIA- HEALTH AND SANITATION-JULY 26, 28, 1949
Your Excellency has been good enough to inform me, with regard to this matter, that in view of the mutual benefits derived by our respective Governments from the said Program, the Government of the United States of America would agree to an extension of the said Program beyond the date specified for its termination, that is, June 30, 1949, and thus the new period of the Basic Agreement would be from June 30, 1949, through the same date of the following year. Finally, Your Excellency informs me that during this last period the Institute will contribute $ 100,000.00 in United States of America currency for the maintenance of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública on the condition that the Government of Colombia contribute to the same Servicio, for the same purpose , the amount of $ 1,960,000.00 in currency of the Republic of Colombia.
I have also taken note that the Institute is willing, during the new extension period of the Agreement, to utilize the funds which the said organization administers and which are not deposited in the account of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública , for the purpose of payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the staff of the Health and Sanitation Division who are maintained by the Institute in Colombia. These amounts will be considered as expenses in addition to the sums required for the fulfillment of the Agreement.
I take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that, on the bases expressed in the note to which I am replying and to which I referred in the preceding paragraphs of this note, the Government of the Republic of Colombia agrees to a new extension of the Basic Agreement, as amended , signed with the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for a period of one year beginning June 30 , 1949 , through June 30, 1950 .
I request that Your Excellency consider this note as my Government's formal agreement to the extension of the said Agreement, which, for its entry into force, will require the signature of a complementary agreement between the Minister of Hygiene of the Republic of Colombia and a representative of the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs in order to determine matters of a technical nature .
I request Your Excellency to transmit the contents of the present note to the Department of State of the United States of America and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs . For my part, I have informed the Minister of Hygiene of the acceptance expressed in this note so that he may be enabled to enter into official conversations with the representative of the said Institute .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
ELISEO ARANGO .
His Excellency WILLARD L. BEAULAC, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America City.

2763

2764

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Agreement and exchange of notes between the United States of America and Norway respecting a United States Educational Foundation in Norway. Signed at Oslo May 25, 1949; entered into force May 25, 1949.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE ROYAL NORWEGIAN GOVERNMENT FOR THE USE OF FUNDS MADE AVAILABLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LETTER CREDIT AGREEMENT DATED JUNE 18, 1946 , ACCEPTED BY THE ROYAL NORWEGIAN GOVERNMENT ON JULY 29, 1946 .

AVTALE MELLOM DEN KONGELIGE NORSKE REGJERING OG AMERIKAS FORENTE STATERS REGJERING OM BRUKEN AV DE MIDLER SOM ER STILT TIL RÅDIGHET ETTER KREDITTAVTALEN AV 18. JUNI 1946 , GODKJENT AV DEN KONGELIGE NORSKE REGJERING
29. JULI 1946.

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1641.
Letter Credit Agreement.

The Government of the United
States of America and the Royal Norwegian Government ;
Desiring to promote further mutual understanding between the peoples of the United States of America
and Norway by a wider exchange of knowledge and professional talents through educational contacts;
Considering that Section 32(b) of the United States Surplus Proper-
ty Act of 1944, as amended by Public Law No. 584, 79th Congress , provides that the Secretary of State of the United States of America may enter into an agreement with any foreign government for the use of currencies or credits for currencies of such foreign government acquired as a result of surplus property disposals for certain educational activities ; and
Considering that under the provisions of the letter credit agreement dated June 18 , 1946 , addressed to the Minister of Finance , Oslo, Norway, from Horace C. Reed , Acting Central Field Commissioner for Europe , Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner , United States of America, accepted by Erik Brofoss on July 29, 1946 (hereinafter designated " the Letter Credit Agreement " ) it is provided that in the event the Govern-

Den Kongelige Norske Regjering og Amerikas Forente Staters Regjering, som önsker å fremme og utvide den gjensidige forståelse mellom det norske og det amerikanske folk ved en ökt utveksling av kunnskaper og fagkyndighet gjennom samarbeid på undervisningens område ;
som tar i betraktning at seksjon 32 (b) i the United States Surplus Property Act av 1944, med endringer i Public Law No. 584, 79th Congress , gir Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister adgang til å slutte avtale med utenlandske regjeringer om å nytte for visse undervisningsmessige tiltak de belöp som er ervervet i vedkommende regjerings valuta eller som valutakreditter ved salg av overskuddsmateriell ; og
som tar i betraktning at det etter bestemmelsene i brev om kredittavtale
av 18. juni 1946 fra Horace C. Reed , Acting Central Field Commissioner for Europe , Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner , United States of America , til den norske finansminister, godkjent av Erik Brofoss 29. juli 1946 (heretter kalt "kredittavtalen " ) , er forutsatt at , for det tilfelle at De Forente Staters Regjering skulle önske å motta norske betalingsmidler av Den

1 Not printed.

63 STAT. ] NORWAY-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-MAY 25, 1949

2765

ment of the United States wishes to
receive local currency of the Royal Norwegian Government for the payment of any or all expenditures in Norway of the Government of the United States and its agencies ( i.e. Embassy, Consular, and similar civi-

Kongelige Norske Regjering til dekning av enkelte eller alle utgifter som De Forente Staters Regjering og dens utsendinger har i Norge (ambassade- , konsulat- og lignende sivile utgifter ) , kan De Forente Staters Regjering til enhver tid forlange · og Den Kongelige

lian expenditures) , the Government of the United States may request at
any time or times , and the Royal Norwegian Government agrees to furnish at such time or times , Norwegian currency at an exchange rate as provided in sub-paragraph ( 4 ) ( b ) of the Letter Credit Agreement, in any amount not in excess of the net out-
standing balance of principal (whether or not then due in United Sta-
tes dollars ) plus interest (then due in United States dollars) payable under the terms of this letter. In the event that local currency is received by the Government of the United States under the terms of this paragraph, the United States dollar equivalent of the amount received shall be credited first to

Norske Regjering samtykker i til slik tid å stille til rådighet norske betalingsmidler etter den vekslingskurs som er forutsatt i kredittavtalens underpunkt (4 ) ( b ) til et belöp som ikke overstiger den utestående nettobalanse på hovedstolen (hva enten den da er forfalt til betaling i amerikanske dollars eller ikke ) pluss renter (da forfalt til betaling i amerikanske dollars) som skal betales etter kredittavtalens bestemmelser. Hvis De Forente
Staters Regjering mottar norske betalingsmidler i henhold til denne bestemmelse , skal et tilsvarende belöp i amerikanske dollars avskrives först mot mulige allerede forfalne renter og deretter pro rata mot alle gjenstående ubetalte avdrag på hovedstolen ,

past due interest , if any, and then pro rata to all remaining unpaid installments of principal ,
Have agreed as follows :

er blitt enige om fölgende:

Article 1

Artikkel 1

There shall be established a foundation to be known as the United States Educational Foundation in Norway (hereinafter designated "the Foundation" ) , which shall be recognized by the Government of the United States of America and the Royal Norwegian Government as an organization created and established to facilitate the administration of the

Det opprettes et fond med navnet "The United States Educational Foundation in Norway" (De Forente Staters Undervisningsfond i Norge , heretter kalt " Fondet " ) , som skal anerkjennes av Den Kongelige Norske Regjering og Amerikas Forente Staters Regjering som en organisasjon stiftet og opprettet for å lette administrasjonen av det undervisningsprogram som vil bli fin-

U. S. Educational Foundation in Norway .

2766

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Use of funds.
60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. 1641.

educational program to be financed ansiert ved de midler som stilles

by funds made available by the Royal til rådighet av Den Kongelige Norske

Norwegian Government under the terms of the present agreement. Except as provided in Article 3 hereof the Foundation shall be exempt from

Regjering i henhold til bestemmelsene i denne avtale . Med det unntak som er
gjort i denne avtales artikkel 3 , skal Fondet være fritatt for lokale norske

the domestic and local laws of the eller amerikanske lovbestemmelser for

United States of America and Norway så vidt angår bruk og disponering av

as they relate to the use and expen- betalingsmidler og kreditter for de ditures of currencies , and credits formål som er nevnt i denne avtale .

for currencies , for the purposes

set forth in the present agreement.

The funds made available under

De midler som Den Kongelige Norske

the present agreement by the Royal Norwegian Government , within the conditions and limitation herein-
after set forth , shall be used by the Foundation or such other in-

Regjering stiller til rådighet etter denne avtale, skal - på de betingelser
og med den begrensning som fremgår av etterfölgende - nyttes av Fondet eller
av det organ som Den Kongelige Norske

strumentality as may be agreed

Regjering og Amerikas Forente Staters

upon by the Government of the Unit- Regjering måtte bli enige om, til det ed States of America and the Royal formål som er nevnt i seksjon 32 (b)

Norwegian Government for the pur- i the United States Surplus Property

pose , as set forth in Section 32. (b) Act av 1944 med endringer, nemlig til of the United States Surplus Pro- &:
perty Act of 1944 , as amended , of

(1) financing studies , research , instruction , and other educational activities of or for citizens of the United States of America in schools and institutions of higher learning located in Norway or of nationals of Norway in United States schools and institutions
of higher learning located outside the continental United
States, Hawaii , Alaska ( including the Aleutian Islands ) , Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, including payment for transportation, tuition, maintenance , and other expenses incident to scholastic activities; or

1. finansiere studier, forskning,
undervisning og annen undervisningsmessig virksomhet til eller for amerikanske borgere ved norske skoler og höyere læreanstalter i Norge eller til norske statsborgere ved amerikanske skoler og höyere læreanstalter som ligger utenfor den kontinentale del av De Forente Stater , Hawaii , Alaska (med De aleutiske öyer ) , Puerto Rico og Jomfruöyene, innbefattende utgifter til reise ,
skolepenger og opphold og andre utgifter i samband med studiene; eller

63 STAT. ] NORWAY- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAY 25, 1949

2767

(2) furnishing transportation for nationals of Norway who desire to attend United States schools and institutions of higher learning in the continental United States , Hawaii , Alaska ( including the Aleutian Islands ) , Puerto Rico , and the Virgin Islands and whose attendance
will not deprive citizens of the United States of America of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions .

2. dekke reiseutgiftene for norske statsborgere som önsker å frekventere amerikanske sko-
ler og höyere læreanstalter i den kontinentale del av De Forente Stater , Hawaii , Alaska (med De aleutiske öyer) , Puerto Rico og Jomfruöyene , og hvis frekventering ikke vil beröve amerikanske borgere adgang til å frekventere slike skoler og læreanstalter.

Article 2

Artikkel 2

In furtherance of the aforementioned purposes, the Foundation may, subject to the provisions of Article 10 of the present agreement , exercise all powers necessary to the carrying out of the purposes of the present agreement including the following:

For å fremme de forannevnte formål kan Fondet , med forbehold av bestemmelsene i denne avtales artikkel 10, utöve den myndighet som er nödvendig for å gjennomföre formålene med denne avtale , heri innbefattet fölgende :

(1 ) Receive funds. (2 ) Open and operate bank accounts
in the name of the Foundation
in a depository or depositories to be designated by the Secretary of State of the United States of America .
(3) Disburse funds and make grants and advances of funds for the authorized purposes of the Foundation .
(4 ) Acquire , hold , and dispose of property in the name of the Foundation as the Board of Directors of the Foundation may consider necessary or desirable , provided however that the acquisition of any real property shall be subject to the prior approval of the Secretary of State of the United States of America .

1. Motta pengemidler. 2. Åpne og disponere bankkonti i
Fondets navn i det eller de pengeinstitutter som utpekes av Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister .
3. Utbetale pengemidler, gi bidrag og forskudd til slike formål som Fondet har fullmakt til å fremme .
4. Erverve , besitte og avhende eiendom i Fondets navn i den utstrekning Fondets styre anser det nödvendig eller önskelig, dog slik at erverv av fast eiendom på forhånd må godkjennes av Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister .

Powers of Foundation.
Post, p. 2771.

2768

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1641.

(5) Plan, adopt , and carry out programs, in accordance with

5. Planlegge , vedta og utföre tiltak i samsvar med formålene i

the purposes of Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus

seksjon 32 (b ) i the United States Surplus Property Act av

Property Act of 1944, as amend-

1944 med endringer, og med

ed, and the purposes of the

formålene i denne avtale.

present agreement . (6) Recommend to the Board of For-

6. Innstille til the Board of

eign Scholarships provided for in the United States Surplus

Foreign Scholarships , opprettet ved the United States Sur-

Property Act of 1944, as amended, students , professors , research scholars , resident in Norway, and institutions of Norway qualified to participate in the programs in accordance with the aforesaid Act .

plus Property Act av 1944 med endringer, studenter, lærere , vitenskapsmenn bosatt i Norge og norske institusjoner som er kvalifiserte til å delta i tiltak i samsvar med den nevnte lov.

(7) Recommend to the aforesaid Board 7. Foreslå for det forannevnte

of Foreign Scholarships such

Board of Foreign Scholarships

qualifications for the selection of participants in the programs as it may deem necessary for achieving the purpose and objectives of the Foundation . (8) Provide for periodic audits of the accounts of the Foundation
as directed by the auditors selected by the Secretary of State of the United States of America . (9) Engage administrative and clerical staff and fix and pay the salaries and wages thereof.

slike retningslinjer for uttaking av deltakere i tiltakene som det finner nödvendig for å oppfylle Fondets formål og hensikt. 8. Sörge for regelmessig revisjon av Fondets regnskaper etter direktiver fra de revisorer
som er oppnevnt av Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister. 9. Tilsette administrasjons- og
kontorpersonale og fastsette og utbetale deres lönn og betaling.

Annual budget.

Article 3
All expenditures by the Foundation shall be made pursuant to an annual budget to be approved by the Secretary of State of the United States of America pursuant to such regulations as he may prescribe .

Artikkel 3
Alle Fondets utbetalinger skal skje etter et årlig budsjett som skal godkjennes av Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister i samsvar med de bestemmelser han måtte fastsette .

Limitation on powers of Foundation.

Article 4 The Foundation shall not enter

Artikkel 4 Fondet skal ikke påta seg noen

63 STAT. ] NORWAY-EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-MAY 25, 1949

2769

into any commitment or create any obligation which shall bind the Foundation in excess of the funds actually on hand nor acquire , hold, or dispoge of property except for the purposes authorized in the present agreement.

forpliktelse eller stifte noen fordring som vil binde Fondet utover de midler det til enhver tid rår over. Det skal heller ikke erverve , besitte eller avhende eiendom for andre for-
mål enn slike som har hjemmel i denne avtale .

Article 5

Artikkel 5

The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of eight Directors (hereinafter designated the "Board" ) , four of whom shall be citizens of the United States of America and four of whom shall be nationals of

Administrasjonen og ledelsen av Fondets virksomhet skal ligge hos et styre (heretter kalt " Styret " ) bestående av 8 medlemmer, hvorav 4 skal være amerikanske borgere og 4 norske statsborgere . Dessuten skal den embetsmann som står i spissen for Amerikas Forente Staters diplomatiske represen-

Norway. In addition , the principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States of Am-

tasjon i Norge (heretter kalt "Misjonssjef" ) , være Styrets honorære formann. Hans stemme skal gjöre utslaget hvis

erica to Norway (hereinafter designated " Chief of Mission" ) shall be Honorary Chairman of the Board . He
shall cast the deciding vote in the event of a tie vote by the Board and

det oppstår stemmelikhet i Styret , og han skal oppnevne Styrets formann. Formannen skal , som regulært styremedlem, ha stemmerett . Misjonssjefen skal oppnevne og löse fra vervet de amerikanske

shall appoint the Chairman of the Board. The Chairman as a regular

styremedlemmene , hvorav minst to skal være tjenestemenn ved Amerikas Forente

member of the Board shall have the right to vote . The citizens of the United States of America on the Board, at least two of whom shall be officers of the United States Foreign

Staters utenrikske representasjon i Norge . Den norske kirke- og undervisningsminister skal oppnevne de norske styremedlemmene og löse dem fra deres verv.

Service establishment in Norway,

shall be appointed and removed by the

Chief of Mission; the nationals of Nor-

vay on the Board shall be appointed and

removed by the Norwegian Minister of Church and Education.
The Directors shall serve from

Styremedlemmene skal gjöre tjene-

the time of their appointment until the following December 31 and shall

ste fra oppnevningsdagen til den påfölgende 31. desember og de skal kunne

be eligible for reappointment . Vacan- oppnevnes på nytt . Styreplasser som cies by reason of resignation , trans- blir ledige på grunn av fratreden , ut-

fer of residence outside Norway, expi- flytning fra Norge, avsluttet tjeneste-

Board of Directors. Length of term.

2770 Bylaws, etc.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

ration of service or otherwise , shall be filled in accordance with
the appointment procedure set forth in this article.
The Directors shall serve with-
out compensation but the Foundation is authorized to pay the necessary
expenses of the Directors in attending the meetings of the Board.

tid eller av andre grunner, skal besettes i samsvar med de regler for oppnevning som er fastsatt i denne artikkel .
Styremedlemmene skal gjöre tjeneste uten godtgjörelse , men Fondet kan dekke nödvendige utgifter for styremedlemmene i anledning av styremöter.

Article 6
The Board shall adopt such bylaws and appoint such committees as it shall deem necessary for the conduct of the affairs of the Foundation.

Artikkel 6
Styret skal fastsette slike vedtekter og oppnevne de komitéer som det finner nödvendig for at Fondet skal kunne drive sin virksomhet.

Annual reports.

Article 7
Reports as directed by the Secretary of State of the United States of America shall be made annually on the activities of the Foundation to the Secretary of State of the United States of America and the Royal Norwegian Government .

Artikkel 7
Etter regler fastsatt av Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister skal årlige rapporter om Fondets virksomhet avgis til Den Kongelige Norske Regjering og til Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister.

Principal office.

Article 8
The principal office of the Foundation shall be in Oslo but meetings of the Board and any of its committees may be held in such other places as the Board may from time to time determine , and the activities of any of the Foundation's officers or staff may be carried on at such places as may be approved by the Board.

Artikkel 8
Fondets hovedkontor skal ha sitt sete i Oslo , men möter i Styret eller noen av dets komitéer kan holdes på slike andre steder som Styret til enhver tid fastsetter. Fondets funksjonærer og personale kan utföre sitt arbeid på de steder som Styret måtte godkjenne.

Executive Officer.

Article 9
The Board may appoint an Executive Officer and determine his salary and term of service, provided

Artikkel 9
Styret kan tilsette en generalsekretær og fastsette hans lönn og funksjonstid, men hvis det viser seg å være

63 STAT. ] NORWAY- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- MAY 25, 1949

2771

however, that in the event it is found to be impracticable for the Board to secure an appointee acceptable to the Chairman , the Government of the United States may provide an Executive Officer and such assistants as may be deemed necessary to ensure the effective operation of the program. The Executive Officer shall be responsible for the direction and supervision of the Board's programs and activities in accordance with the Board's resolutions and directives . In his absence or disability, the Board may appoint a substitute for such time as it deems necessary or desirable .

umulig for Styret å finne en kandidat som formannen kan godkjenne , kan De Forente Staters Regjering stille til rådighet en generalsekretær og de medhjelpere en anser nödvendige for å sikre en effektiv drift av virksomheten . Generalsekretæren skal ha ansvaret for ledelsen
av og overoppsynet med Styrets tiltak og virksomhet i samsvar med Styrets vedtak og direktiver. Under hans fravær eller sykdom kan Styret tilsette en vikar for den tid Styret finner nödvendig eller önskelig.

Article 10
The decisions of the Board in all matters may, in the discretion of the Secretary of State of the United States of America, be subject to his review.

Artikkel 10
Alle styrevedtak kan omgjöres av Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister etter hans godtykke .

Article 11
The Royal Norwegian Government shall, subsequent to 30 days of the date of the signature of the present agreement , deposit such amounts of currency of the Royal Norwegian Government as may be requested by the Government of the United States of America until an aggregate amount of the currency of the Royal Norwegian Government equivalent to $1,250,000 (United States currency ) shall have been so deposited, provided however, that in no event shall a total amount of the currency of the Royal Norwegian Government in excess of the equivalent of $250,000 ( United States

Artikkel 11
Den Kongelige Norske Regjering skal tidligst 30 dager etter at denne avtale er undertegnet , deponere de belöp i norske betalingsmidler som Amerikas Forente Staters Regjering måtte anmode om inntil det er blitt utbetalt en samlet sum i norske kroner svarende til 1.250.000 amerikanske dollars . Det forutsettes dog at det i löpet av ett kalenderår under ingen omstendighet skal utbetales en samlet sum i norske betalingsmidler som overstiger 250.000 amerikanske dollars.

Review of decisions. Deposits.

2772

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

currency ) be deposited during any

single calendar year.

Rate of exchange.

The rate of exchange between

currency of the Royal Norwegian Government and United States cur-

rency to be used in determining

the amount of currency of the Royal Norwegian Government to be deposited from time to time hereunder , shall be determined in accordance

with sub-paragraph ( 4 ) ( b ) of the

Guarantee loss.

against

Letter Credit Agreement . The Royal Norwegian Government
shall guarantee the United States of

America against loss resulting from any alteration in the above rate of

exchange or from any currency conversion with respect to any currency

of the Royal Norwegian Government received hereunder and held by the Treasurer of the United States of

America or by the Foundation by undertaking to pay to the Government of the United States of America such

amounts of currency of the Royal Norwegian Government as are necessary to maintain the dollar value of

such currency of the Royal Norwegian Government as is held by the Treasurer of the United States of America or the Foundation. The purpose of

this provision is to assure that the

operations of the Foundation will

not be interrupted or restricted by any deficits resulting from alterations in the above rate of exchange ,

Available funds.

or from currency conversions . The Secretary of State of the
United States of America will make

available for expenditure by the

Foundation currency of the Royal

Norwegian Government in such amounts

as may be required by the Foundation but in no event in excess of the

Den vekslingskurs mellom norske kroner og amerikanske dollars som skal nyttes ved fastsettingen av det belöp i norske kroner som til enhver tid skal deponeres etter denne avtale , fastsettes i samsvar med kredittavtalens underpunkt (4) (b) .
Den Kongelige Norske Regjering skal garantere Amerikas Forente Stater mot tap som måtte oppstå på grunn av noensomhelst endring i den ovennevnte vekslingskurs eller på grunn av valutakonverteringer for så vidt angår de betalingsmidler i norske kroner som blir mottatt etter denne avtale og forvaltet av Amerikas Forente Staters finansminister eller av Fondet , ved å forplikte seg til å betale Amerikas Forente Staters Regjering de belöp i norske kroner som er nödvendig for å opprettholde dollarverdien av de belöp i norske kroner som Amerikas Forente Staters finansminister eller Fondet sitter inne med . Formålet med denne bestemmelse er å sikre Fondets arbeid mot avbrekk eller innskrenkninger på grunn av verdiforringelser som fölge av endringer i den ovennevnte vekslingskurs eller av valutakonverteringer.
Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister vil til dekning av Fondets utgifter stille norske betalingsmidler til rådighet i slike belöp som Fondet har behov for, dog ikke utover den budsjett-ramme som er fastsatt med hjemmel i denne av-

63 STAT. ] NORWAY- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION--MAY 25, 1949

budgetary limitation established pursuant to Article 3 of the present agreement .

tales artikkel 3.

2773 Ante,p. 2768.

Article 12
Furniture , equipment , supplies , and any other articles intended for official use of the Foundation shall be exempt in the territory of Norway from customs duties , excises , and surtaxes, and every other form of taxation .
All funds and other property used for the purposes of the Foundation , and all official acts of the Foundation within the scope of its purposes shall likewise be exempt from taxation of every kind in the territory of Norway.

Artikkel 12
Möbler, utstyr , rekvisita og andre gjenstander som Fondet har bruk for til sin egen virksomhet , skal på norsk område være fritatt for toll , avgifter, tilleggsskatter og enhver annen form for beskatning.
Alle pengemidler og annen eiendom som blir nyttet for Fondets formål og alle Fondets offisielle handlinger innenfor rammen av dets virkefelt , skal likeledes være fritatt for enhver form for beskatning på norsk område .

Exemption from taxation .

Article 13
The Government of the United States of America and the Royal Norwegian Government shall make every effort to facilitate the exchange of persons under programs authorized in this agreement and to resolve problems which may arise in the operation thereof .

Artikkel 13
Den Kongelige Norske Regjering og Amerikas Forente Staters Regjering skal gjöre alt for å lette utvekslingen av personer etter de tiltak som er hjemlet i denne avtale og for å löse de vansker som måtte oppstå under iverksettingen av disse tiltak .

Exchange of persons.

Article 14
Wherever, in the present agreement , the term " Secretary of State of the United States of America" , is used it shall be understood to mean the Secretary of State of the United States of America or any officer or employee of the Government of the United States of America designated by him to act in his behalf .

Artikkel 14
Hvor det i denne avtale er brukt
uttrykket "Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister" , skal med det forstås Amerikas Forente Staters utenriksminister eller enhver embetsmann eller funksjonær i Amerikas Forente Staters Regjerings tjeneste som han har utsett til å opptre på sine vegne .

"Secretary of State ofthe United States of America."

Article 15 The present agreement may be

Artikkel 15 Denne avtale kan endres ved

Amendment ofpresent agreement.

2774 Entry into force.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

amended by the exchange of diplomatic notes between the Government of the United States of America and the Royal Norwegian Government.
Article 16
The present agreement shall come into force upon the date of signature .

diplomatisk noteveksling mellom Den Kongelige Norske Regjering og Amerikas Forente Staters Regjering.
Artikkel 16 Denne avtale trer i kraft samme dag som den blir undertegnet .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present agreement .

Til vitne på dette har under-
tegnede , som har fått behörig fullmakt til det av sine respektive
regjeringer, skrevet under denne avtale .

DONE at Oslo in duplicate , in the English and Norwegian languages , this 25th day of May, 1949.

Utferdiget i Oslo den 25 mai 1949 i to eksemplarer på norsk og engelsk .

For The Government of the United States of America:

For Den Kongelige Norske Regjering:

Henry S. Villard [SEAL ]

FFaallvoeurst & Lange (SEAL]

63 STAT.] NORWAY- EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-MAY 25, 1949

The Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

DET KGL. UTENRIKSDEPARTEMENT

OSLO , 25. mai 1949.

Herr Chargé d'Affaires ,

Jeg viser til de forhandlinger som har funnet sted mellom den Kgl .

Norske Regjering og Amerikas Forente Staters Regjering og som har

fört frem til undertegningen i dag av en avtale mellom de to land om

bruken av de midler som blir stillet til rådighet i henhold til kredit-

tavtalen av 18. juni 1946 , godkjent av den Kgl . Norske Regjering 29.

juli 1946, og har den ære å forsikre Amerikas Forente Staters Regjering

om at den Kgl . Norske Regjering med sikte på å oppnå den best mulige

utnyttelse av de midler som den i dag undertegnede avtale omfatter,

vil utvirke, om nödvendig ved forslag om lovendring, at det blir

innrömmet fritaking for skatt og at andre byrder i forbindelse med

innreise til, reise og opphold i Norge for borgere av de Forente Stater

som deltar i undervisningsarbeid på vegne av de Forente Staters

Undervisningsfond i Norge blir fjernet, i samme utstrekning som

norske borgere i de Forente Stater i tilsvarende arbeid innrömmes slike

privilegier.

Motta, Herr Chargé d'Affaires , forsikringen om min særlige

höyaktelse .

HALVARD M. LANGE

M. HENRY S. VILLARD, Amerikas Forente Staters Chargé d'Affaires a.i. , etc. , etc.

Translation

THE ROYAL DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES:

OSLO, May 25, 1949.

I refer to the negotiations which have been conducted between the Royal Norwegian Government and the Government of the United States of America and which have led to the signing today of an agreement between the two countries concerning the use of the funds made available under the Credit Agreement of June 18 , 1946 , ratified by the Royal Norwegian Government on July 29 , 1946 , and have the honor to assure the Government of the United States of America that

the Royal Norwegian Government , with a view to obtaining the best possible use of the funds covered by the Agreement signed today, will, if necessary by proposing a legislative amendment, arrange for the granting of exemption from taxation and the removal of other charges in connection with entry into Norway, and travel and residence in Norway, for citizens of the United States who participate in educational work on behalf of the United States Educational

Foundation in Norway, to the same extent as Norwegian citizens in the United States engaged in similar work are granted such privileges .

2775

2776

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Accept, Mr. Chargé d'Affaires , the assurance of my high consideration .
HALVARD M. LANGE
Mr. HENRY S. VILLARD, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America , etc. , etc.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 116

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Oslo, May 25, 1949

EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note dated
May 25, 1949 concerning the use of funds made available in accordance with the Letter Credit Agreement of June 18 , 1946. It is understood that it is the intention of the Royal Norwegian Government to arrange, if necessary by proposal for an amendment of existing legislation, that exemption from taxation be granted and that other burdens affecting entry, travel and residence in Norway for citizens of the United States who participate in educational activities on behalf of the United States Educational Foundation in Norway be removed to the same extent that Norwegian citizens in the United States engaged in similar activities are granted such privileges.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
HENRY S. VILLARD His Excellency
HALVARD M. LANGE, Royal Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Oslo.

July 22, 1949 63 STAT. ] BRAZIL- HEALTH AND SANITATION- Aug. 31, 1949

2777

Agreement between the United States of America and Brazil respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Brazil, extending and modifying the agreement of March 14, 1942, as amended and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rio de Janeiro July 22 and August 31, 1949 ; entered into force October 4 , 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1949.

July 22 and August 31, 1949
[T. I. A. S. 2004

The American Ambassador to the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 134

RIO DE JANEIRO, July 22, 1949.

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended , entered into in March 1942 on behalf of the Republic of the United States of Brazil and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, providing

57 Stat. 1322, 1325, 1333, 1338 ; 62 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3831 .

for the present cooperative health and sanitation program in Brazil. I also refer to the note of Your Excellency's Ministry of July 2 , 1949 ,

DAI/80/512 . (22 ) , [ ] suggesting the consideration by our respective

governments of a further extension of that Agreement.

Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are

deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Govern-

ment of Brazil that an extension of the program beyond its present

termination date of June 30 , 1949 , would be desirable . Accordingly , I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its

participation in the program for a period of six months from June 30 , 1949 through December 31 , 1949. It would be understood that the Institute will continue to pay salaries and other expenses of its health and sanitation field staff in Brazil during the period of such extension and that no additional financial contribution would be required to be made by the parties to such extension agreement to or on behalf of the Serviço Especial de Saude Pública . It would be further understood that the unexpended and unobligated balance of all financial contributions heretofore made available by the parties pursuant to the mentioned Basic Agreement, as amended, for the cooperative health and sanitation program, and remaining at the close of June 30, 1949 , would continue to remain available for such purpose during the period covered by the extension agreement.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments , which shall come into force after signature [ 2] of an agreement by the Minister of Education and Health of Brazil and a representative of The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, embodying the above-mentioned technical details

1 Not printed. 2 Sept. 1 , 1949.

2778

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

and on the date the latter agreement is registered with the Tribunal de Contas of Brazil . [ ']

If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to the Government of Brazil , I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible, in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Health and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

His Excellency Dr. RAUL FERNANDES,

HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rio de Janeiro .

The Brazilian Ministerfor Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DAS RELAÇÕES EXTERIORES , RIO DE JANEIRO .

DAI/111 /512 . (22) SENHOR EMBAIXADOR,

Em 31 de agosto de 1949.

Tenho a honra de acusar recebimento da nota nº 134 , de 22 de julho último, na qual Vossa Excelência se refere ao Acôrdo Básico,

tal como foi emendado , concluído em março de 1942 entre o Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil e o "Institute of Inter-American Affairs " ,

o qual estabeleceu o programa de cooperação , em realização, em matéria de saúde e saneamento no Brasil .

2. Informa-me Vossa Excelência , na referida nota , de que o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, em virtude dos benefícios mútuos auferidos com o programa de cooperação mencionado , concorda com a sugestão feita pelo Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil , nos têrmos da nota do Ministério das Relações Exteriores , de n° DAI/ 80/512 . (22 ) , de 2 de julho último , no sentido de ser o mencionado programa prorrogado .
3. Comunica-me, assim, Vossa Excelência, que o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América considera que um ajuste pode ser feito, a fim de que o "Institute of Inter-American Affairs" continue sua participação no programa de cooperação mencionado , por um período de 6 meses além da data da terminação de sua presente vigência, ou seja de 30 de junho último a 31 de dezembro do corrente ano de 1949.
4. Ficará estipulado , no ajuste em questão , que, durante o referido período de prorrogação , o "Institute" continuará a pagar os salários e outras despesas de todo o pessoal encarregado de seus serviços de Saúde e Saneamento no Brasil, e que nenhuma contribuição financeira adicional será exigida das Partes no mencionado acôrdo de prorrogação, quer por parte do Serviço Especial de Saúde Pública , quer a favor do mesmo .

1 Oct. 4, 1949.

July 22, 1949 63 STAT. ] BRAZIL- HEALTH AND SANITATION- Aug. 31 , 1949
5 . Estipular-se-á, outrossim, que os saldos não gastos e não empenha dos, relativos a todas as contribuições financeiras até a presente data, postos à disposição pelas Partes , de conformidade com o Acôrdo Básico mencionado , para o programa de cooperação em matéria de saúde e saneamento , tal como foi emendado , e existentes a 30 de junho de 1949 , continuarão a ser aplicados , para o referido fim, durante o período de vigência do Acôrdo de prorrogação .
6. É-me grato comunicar a Vossa Excelência que o Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil concorda com o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América na prorrogação do Acôrdo de cooperação em matéria de saúde e saneamento no Brasil, nos têrmos acima expressos , devendo esta nota e a nota de Vossa Excelência, datada de 22 de julho último, e a que a princípio me reporto , constituir a expressão de tal Acôrdo entre os dois Governos , Acôrdo que entrará em vigor na data em que o respectivo Instrumento de prorrogação , assinado pelo Senhor Ministro de Estado da Educação e Saúde do Brasil e o Representante do "Institute of Inter-American Affairs"", contendo os pormenores técnicos acima indicados, fôr registrado no Tribunal de Contas do Brasil.
Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
RAUL FERNANDES
A Sua Excelência o Senhor HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON, Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América.

2779

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS , RIO DE JANEIRO.

DAI/111/512. (22) MR. AMBASSADOR :

August 31 , 1949.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of note No. 134 , dated

Ante, p. 2777

July 22, 1949, in which Your Excellency refers to the Basic Agreement, as amended , entered into in March 1942 by the Government of the United States of Brazil and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs ,

57 Stat. 1322, 1325, 1333, 1338; 62 ' Stat.,
Pt. 3, p. 3831.

which established the present health and sanitation program in

Brazil .

2. In the aforementioned note , Your Excellency informs me that the Government of the United States of America, considering the mutual benefits derived from the above-mentioned cooperative program, agrees with the suggestion of the Government of the United States of Brazil , embodied in the terms of Note No. DAI/80/512 . (22) , dated July 2 , 1949, that the aforesaid program be extended.

3. Your Excellency also informs me that the Government of the United States of America considers that an arrangement may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the aforementioned cooperative program for a period of 6 months beyond its present date of termination , that is, from June 30, 1949through December 31 , 1949.

2780

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
4. The arrangement in question would stipulate that during the period of such extension the Institute will continue to pay the salaries and other expenses of all its health and sanitation field staff in Brazil and that no additional financial contribution would be required to be made by the parties to such extension agreement to or on behalf of the Serviço Especial de Saúde Pública.
5. It will also be stipulated that the unexpended and unobligated balance of all financial contributions heretofore made available by the parties pursuant to the mentioned Basic Agreement, as amended, for the cooperative health and sanitation program , and remaining at the close of June 30, 1949 , would continue to remain available for such purpose during the period covered by the extension agreement . 6. I take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of Brazil agrees with the Government of the United States of America to the extension of the Agreement providing for the cooperative health and sanitation program in Brazil , in accordance with the aforementioned terms, and will consider this note and that of Your Excellency, dated July 22 , 1949 , to which I refer above, as constituting an agreement between our two Governments , which shall come into force on the date on which the appropriate extension agreement signed by the Minister of Education and Health of Brazil and a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , and embodying the above-mentioned technical details, is registered with the Tribunal de Contas of Brazil .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
RAUL FERNANDES His Excellency HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON,
Ambassador of the United States of America.

63 STAT. ] VENEZUELA- HEALTH AND SANITATION--SEPT. 7, 30, 1949

2781

Agreement between the United States of America and Venezuela respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Venezuela, extending and modifying the agreement of February 18, 1943, as extended and modified. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Caracas Septem-
ber 7 and 80, 1949; entered into force September 30, 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1949.

Se[pTt.eIm.bAe.r 7S., 3200,0189]49

The American Ambassador to the Venezuelan Minister of Foreign Relations

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 539 EXCELLENCY :

AMERICAN EMBASSY , Caracas, Venezuela , September 7, 1949.
f

I have the honor to refer to the agreement signed September 2, 1949 between the Minister of Health and Social Assistance of the

United States of Venezuela and the Chief of the Field Party of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the United States of America

extending further the Basic Agreement , as amended , between the
United States of Venezuela and the United States of America, arising
out of the exchange of notes between His Excellency the Minister of
Foreign Relations of Venezuela and the Ambassador of the United States of America to Venezuela on February 18 , 1943 , which 57 Stat. 1126; 58 Stat.
1446; 61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3271. provided for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative P.A3nte, p. 2695.
health and sanitation program in Venezuela.
The text of this agreement follows :

EXTENSION AGREEMENT

The Ministry of Health and Social Assistance (hereinafter referred to as the "Ministry" ) of the Government of the United States of Venezuela (hereinafter referred to as the "Government") , represented by Dr. Antonio Martín Araujo , Minister of Health and Social Assistance (hereinafter referred to as the "Minister" ) , and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the "Institute") , a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States. of America , represented by its Chief of Field Party, Health and Sanitation Division, James D. Caldwell (hereinafter referred to as "Chief of Field Party" ) , have agreed , pursuant to the request of the Government, and in accordance with the exchange of notes dated August 26 , 1949 and September 1st, 1949 , [ ] between the Ambassador of the United States of America and His Excellency, the Minister of Foreign Affairs , upon the following details for extending for an additional period of one year from June 30, 1949 , and modifying in the manner hereinafter set forth, the Agreement entered into on behalf

1 Not printed.

2782

· INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

5578Stat. 21446: 61 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3271.
Ante, p. 2695.
Funds.

of the Ministry and the Institute on February 18, 1943, as subsequently modified and extended (hereinafter referred to as the "Basic Agreement " ) , providing for a cooperative health and sanitation program to be carried on in Venezuela.
1. In addition to the funds required by the Basic Agreement to be contributed or otherwise made available for the realization of the

cooperative health and sanitation program, the parties hereto shall contribute and make available funds for use in continuing the program

during the period covered by this Extension Agreement, in accord-

Salaries and expenses.

ance with the following schedule : a) The Institute shall make available the funds necessary to
pay the salaries and all other expenses of its field staff in Venezuela

Deposits.

during the period covered by this Extension Agreement. These funds shall be administered by the Institute and shall not be deposited to the credit of the OFICINA COOPERATIVE INTER-AMERICANA de Salud PublICA (hereinafter referred to as the "Oficina") .
b) The Institute shall deposit to the credit of the Oficina the

sum of $ 25,000.00 or its equivalent in bolivars , (which at the exchange

rate of 3.33 bolivars to $ 1.00 equals 83,250.00 bolivars) as follows:

At the time this Extension Agreement is signed -- $25,000.00

c) The Government of Venezuela shall deposit to the credit

of the Oficina the sum of 1,675,000.00 bolivars (which at the exchange

rate of 3.33 bolivars to $ 1.00 equals $ 503.003.00) , as follows:

Schedule amendments .

At the time this Extension Agreement is signed Bs... October 1 , 1949 .. January 1 , 1950 . April 1, 1950__

835,000.00 280, 000. 00 280, 000. 00 280, 000. 00

2. By written agreement of the Minister of Health and Social Assistance and the Chief of Field Party in Venezuela, the parties

Unexpended or unassigned funds.

hereto may amend the schedules for making deposits required by Clause 1 hereof.
3. Any funds received by the Oficina which remain unexpended or unassigned at the termination of the cooperative health and sanita-

tion program shall be returned to the parties hereto in the proportion

of the respective contributions made by the parties under the Basic

Agreement (including any extensions and amendments thereof) . 4. All funds previously contributed by the parties hereto pursuant
to the Basic Agreement which are unexpended and unassigned as of June 30, 1949 shall remain available for use after that date in contin-

uing the cooperative health and sanitation program during the period covered by this Extension Agreement.
5. The stipulations of the Basic Agreement (including any extensions and amendments thereof) shall remain in effect insofar as they are not directly or indirectly contrary to the provisions of this Extension Agreement.
6. The Government undertakes to initiate the action necessary

to put into effect the terms of this Extension Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Exten-

sion Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representa-

63 STAT. ] VENEZUELA-HEALTH AND SANITATION- SEPT. 7, 30, 1949

tives, in octuplicate , in the Spanish and English languages , in Caracas, Venezuela, this 2nd day of September, 1949.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL ASSISTANCE

THE INSTITUTE OF INTERAMERICAN AFFAIRS

BY ANTONIO M. ARAUJO Dr. Antonio Martín Araujo Minister

By JAMES D. CALDWELL James D. Caldwell Chief of Field Party

I take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America has agreed that this note and your reply in the same terms shall constitute a ratification and confirmation by the Governments of the United States of Venezuela and of the United States of America of the agreement signed between the Minister of Health and Social Assistance and the Chief of the Field Party.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
WALTER J. DONNELLY His Excellency
Dr. LUIS EMILIO GOMEZ RUIZ, Minister of Foreign Relations, Caracas.

2783

The Venezuelan Acting Minister of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES
DIRECCION DE POLITICA INTERNACIONAL SECCION DE RELACIONES INTERAMERICANAS

No. 02392 SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

CARACAS, 30 de setiembre de 1949

Tengo a honra avisar el recibo de la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia, número 539 , de fecha 7 del presente mes , referente al Acuerdo firmado el 2 de los corrientes entre el Ministro de Sanidad y Asistencia Social de los Estados Unidos de Venezuela y el Jefe de la Misión del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos de los Estados Unidos de

América, destinado a prorrogar nuevamente el Modus-Vivendi inicial, con las enmiendas de que fue objeto , celebrado por cambio de notas entre el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores de Venezuela y el Excelentísimo Señor Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América , de fecha 18 de febrero de 1943 , sobre iniciación y ejecución del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento que se desarrolla en Venezuela .
El texto de dicho Acuerdo es el siguiente : "Convenio de Prórroga

Con el fin de desarrollar un Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento, el Ministerio de Sanidad y Asistencia Social (que en adelante se llamará el "Ministerio" ) del Gobierno de los Estados

Unidos de Venezuela (que en adelante se llamará el Gobierno) , 81939-52-PT. III- -31

2784

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

representado por el doctor Antonio Martín Araujo, Ministro de Sani-

dad y Asistencia Social (que en adelante se llamará "El Ministro" ) y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos (que en adelante se llamará el "Instituto") una dependencia Jurídica del Gobierno de los Estados

Unidos de América, representado por James D. Caldwell , Jefe de la Misión, División de Salud y Saneamiento, (que en adelante se llamará "Jefe de la Misión " ) , han convenido , según los deseos del Gobierno y de acuerdo con un intercambio de notas fechadas el 26 de agosto de 1.949 y el 1 ° de septiembre de 1.949 , entre el Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América y el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores, en los siguientes detalles para prorrogar por un período adicional de un año , a partir del 30 de junio de 1.949 , y modificar en la forma que más adelante se especifica, el Modus-Vivendi celebrado entre el Ministerio y el Instituto el 18 de febrero de 1.943 , con las subsiguientes modificaciones y prórrogas de que fué objeto (que más adelante se llamará el "Modus-Vivendi Inicial " ) .

1. Además de los fondos requeridos por el Modus-Vivendi Inicial,

que serán aportados o puestos a disponibilidad para la realización del

programa cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento , las partes contratantes

contribuirán y pondrán a disposición fondos para continuar el desarrollo del programa durante el período estipulado en este Convenio de

Prórroga, en la manera siguiente:

a) El Instituto aportará los fondos necesarios para el pago de

los salarios y demás gastos del personal de la Misión en Venezuela

durante el lapso previsto por este Convenio de Prórroga. Estos fondos

serán administrados por el Instituto y no serán depositados a la cuenta

de la Oficina Cooperativa Interamericana de Salud Pública (que en adelante se llamará la "Oficina") .

b) El Instituto depositará, a favor de la Oficina, la cantidad de

$25.000.00 ó su equivalente en bolívares (que al tipo de cambio de Bs.

3.33 por dólar equivale a Bs. 83.250.00) , en la manera siguiente :

Al firmarse este Convenio de Prórroga __-

.. $25.000.00

c) El Gobierno de Venezuela depositará a favor de la Oficina la

cantidad de 1.675.000.00 bolívares (que al tipo de cambio de Bs . 3.33

por dólar equivale a $ 503.003.00 ) , de la manera siguiente :

Al firmarse este Convenio de Prórroga... El 10 de octubre de 1.949 El 10 de enero de 1.950 . El 10 de abril de 1.950_.

Bs 835.000.00 "" 280.000.00 " 280.000.00
" 280.000.00

2. - Mediante convenio firmado entre el Ministro de Sanidad

y Asistencia Social y el Jefe de la Misión en Venezuela , las partes

contratantes podrán modificar la forma de hacer las entregas previstas en la Cláusula 1 , arriba inserta.
3.- Los fondos recibidos por la Oficina que no hayan sido utilizados o asignados a la fecha de la terminación del programa

cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento serán devueltos a la partes contratantes en la proporción de sus respectivas contribuciones hechas de acuerdo con el Modus-Vivendi Inicial (inclusive sus prórrogas y

modificaciones) .

63 STAT. ] VENEZUELA--HEALTH AND SANITATION-SEPT. 7, 30, 1949
4.- Los fondos ya enterados por las partes contratantes, de acuerdo con el Modus-Vivendi Inicial (inclusive sus prórrogas y modificaciones) , que no hayan sido utilizados o asignados a la fecha del 30 de junio de 1.949 , seguirán disponibles para ser utilizados después de dicha fecha en la continuación del programa cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento durante el período estipulado en esta prórroga.
5.- Las estipulaciones del Modus-Vivendi Inicial (inclusive las de los Convenios de Prórroga sucesivos ) permanecerán en vigor en cuanto no sean contrarios directa o indirectamente a lo previsto en este Convenio de Prórroga.
6.- El Gobierno se compromete a iniciar la acción necesaria para dar cumplimiento a las estipulaciones de este Convenio de Prórroga.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes contratantes han hecho que sus representantes debidamente autorizados suscriban este Convenio de Prórroga por octuplicado , en los idiomas Español e Inglés, en Caracas, Venezuela, a los 2 días del mes de septiembre de 1.949.
MINISTERIO DE SANIDAD Y ASISTENCIA SOCIAL
ANTONIO MARTÍN ARAUJO Ministro .
INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTERAMERICANOS JAMES D. CALDWELL . Jefe de la Misión."
La nota de Vuestra Excelencia, que contiene las estipulaciones anteriores, y esta respuesta, constituyen un Acuerdo con respecto a la prórroga del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento .
Válgome de la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta consideración .
G. SUÁREZ FLAMERICH
Al Excelentísimo Señor WALTER J. DONNELLY Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América Presente.-

2785

Translation

UNITED STATES OF VENEZUELA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL POLICY INTER-AMERICAN RELATIONS SECTION
No. 02392

MR. AMBASSADOR :

CARACAS, September 30, 1949

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's

courteous note No. 539 dated September 7 , 1949 , relative to the Agreement signed on September 2, 1949 , between the Minister of

Ante, p. 2781.

2786

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Health and Social Assistance of the United States of Venezuela and

the Chief of the Field Party of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the United States of America, for the purpose of again extending

the Basic Agreement, as amended , entered into by an exchange of notes between the Minister of Foreign Relations of Venezuela and

His Excellency the Ambassador of the United States of America,

144567;St61at.S1t1a2t6.;, 58PStt. a3t,.
p. 3271. Ante, p. 2695.

dated February 18 , 1943 , on the initiation and execution of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program now being carried on in Venezuela .

The text of this agreement follows :

[For the English language text of the Extension Agreement , see ante, p . 2781. ]

Your Excellency's note, containing the foregoing stipulations, and this reply constitute an Agreement on the extension of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
G. SUÁREZ FLAMERICH

His Excellency WALTER J. DONNELLY Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America City. -

63 STAT. ] BOLIVIA- HEALTH AND SANITATION-JULY 28, 29, 1949

2787

Agreement between the United States of America and Bolivia respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Bolivia, modifying and extending the agreement of July 15 and 16, 1942, as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at La Paz July 28 and 29, 1949; entered into force July 29, 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1949.

July 28, 29, 1949 [T. I. A. 8. 2009]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Bolivian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Worship

No. 876

AMERICAN EMBASSY La Paz, July 28, 1949

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended ,

entered into in July 1942 [ ] between the Republic of Bolivia and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, providing for the existing cooperative health and sanitation program in Bolivia. I also refer to Your Excellency's note No. TC. y ONU. 618 of July 5 , 1949 , [2 ]

56 Stat. 1864; 58 Stat. 1568; 62 Stat. , Pt. 3,
p. 3920.

suggesting the consideration by our respective governments of a further extension of that Agreement .
Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are de-

Extension gram .

of pro-

riving from the program, my Government agrees with the Govern-

ment of Bolivia that an extension of the program beyond its

termination date of June 30 , 1949, would be desirable. Accordingly,

I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that

arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its

participation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30, Contribution by In-
1949 , through June 30 , 1950. It would be understood that, during stitute
this period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of
$100,000.00 in the currency of the United States, to the Servicio

Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Publica, for use in carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum

of Bs. 28,000,000.00 . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Health and Sanitation Division field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Bolivia. The amounts referred to would be in addition

to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement, as
amended, to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.

¹ Signed July 15 and 16, 1942. · Not printed.

2788

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature [ ] of an agreement by the Minister of Hygiene and Public Health and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Hygiene and Public Health and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
JAMES ESPY Chargé d'Affairs ad interim His Excellency Dr. WALDO BELMONTE POOL, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Worship,
La Paz.

The Bolivian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Worship to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto

No. T. C. y ONU. 684 Asunto: Prórroga del progra-
ma cooperativo de salubridad en Bolivia.

LA PAZ, 29 de julio de 1949

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS :
Tengo el agrado de avisar recibo de su atenta nota No. 876 , fechada el día de ayer, en la cual se refiere Vuestra Señoría al Acuerdo Básico, tal como ha sido modificado , concluído en julio de 1942 entre mi país y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , concerniente al actual programa cooperativo de salubridad y obras sanitarias en Bolivia, comunicando que el gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, al considerar los beneficios recíprocos que ambos gobiernos reciben de dicho programa, está de acuerdo en que se lo prorrogue por un año más, del 30 de junio de 1949 al 30 de junio de 1950.
Me es grato comunicar a Vuestra Señoría que el gobierno de Bolivia se encuentra conforme en que se proceda a la mencionada prórroga, según los términos contenidos en la nota que contesto , y de acuerdo a los arreglos técnicos que se hagan entre un representante del Ministerio de Higiene y Salubridad de mi país, y otro del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos .

1July 29, 1949.

63 STAT.] BOLIVIA-HEALTH AND SANITATION-JULY 28, 29, 1949

Reitero a Vuestra Señoría, con este motivo , las seguridades de mi

consideración muy distinguida.

BELMONTE POOL

A Su Señoría JAMES ESPY,

Encargado de Negocios a.i. de los Estados Unidos de América .

Presente .

2789

REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA Ministry of Foreign Relations
and Worship
No. T. C. and ONU. 684 Subject: Extension of
the cooperative health program in Bolivia,

Translation LA PAZ, July 29, 1949

MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

I take pleasure in acknowledging receipt of your courteous note

No. 876 , dated yesterday, in which you refer to the Basic Agreement,

as amended, which was concluded in July 1942 between my country

and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, relative to the present cooperative health and sanitation program in Bolivia , and in which you inform me that the Government of the United States of America,

56 Stat. 1864; 58 Stat. 1568; 62 Stat. , Pt. 3,
p. 3920.

after considering the mutual benefits that both governments are

deriving from the said program, agrees to extend it for one more year,

from June 30, 1949 , to June 30 , 1950 .

I take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that the Government

of Bolivia agrees to the aforementioned extension, in accordance with

the terms of the note to which I am replying, and in accordance with

the technical arrangements to be made between a representative of

the Ministry of Hygiene and Health of my country and a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my most distinguished consideration .

BELMONTE POOL

His Excellency JAMES ESPY, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America. City.

2790

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

July 2622a, 1n9d49August [T. I. A. 8. 2018]

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting
a cooperative health and sanitation program in Ecuador, modifying and extending the agreement of February 24, 1942, as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Quito July 26 and August 22, 1949; entered into force August 26, 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1949.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Ecuadoran Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 289

QUITO, July 26, 1949.

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, ['] as amended,

entered into in January 1943 , [2] on behalf of the Republic of Ecuador and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , providing for the existing

155907;St6a1t.S1t3a7t0.;, 59PtSt. at3,. pp.. 33910237.; 62 Stat ., Pt. 3,

cooperative health and sanitation program in Ecuador. I also refer to Your Excellency's note no. 120 of July 14, 1949 , [2] suggesting the consideration by our respective governments of a further extension of

that Agreement.

Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Ecuador that an extension of the program beyond its present termi-

nation date of June 30 , 1949 , would be desirable . Accordingly, I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrange-

ments may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1949 , through

June 30, 1950. It would be understood that, during this period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $ 150,000 in the currency of the United States, to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Publica , for use in carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of 6,030,000 sucres (the

equivalent of U.S. $450,000 at the rate of 13.4 sucres to the dollar) . The Institute would also be willing, during the same extension period , to make available funds to be administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Health and Sanitation Division field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Ecuador . The

amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement, as amended , to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which will come into

1 Signed Feb. 24, 1942. · Not printed.

63 STAT. ] ECUADOR- HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 26, 1949 Aug. 22, 1949

force on the date of signature [ ] of an agreement by the Minister of Social Welfare and Labor and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible, in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Social Welfare and Labor and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

MAURICE M. BERNBAUM

Maurice M. Bernbaum

His Excellency Dr. L. NEFTALÍ PONCE,

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Quito.

The Ecuadoran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

NO 151- DDP

QUITO, a 22 Ago 1949 SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS :
Tengo a honra contestar a la atenta comunicación de Vuestra Señoría número 289 , de 26 de julio último , en la que, con referencia a los instrumentos que regulan el Programa cooperativo de salud pública en el Ecuador y considerando los mutuos beneficios que los Gobiernos de nuestros dos países vienen obteniendo con la realización de dicho programa, se sirve Vuestra Señoría expresarme que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América se encuentra de acuerdo con el Gobierno del Ecuador en que sería conveniente una prórroga del programa a partir del 30 de junio de 1949 y que , en tal virtud , el Departamento de Estado le ha informado que se pueden efectuar los arreglos necesarios para que el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos continúe con su participación en el Programa por el lapso de un año más , desde el 30 de junio de 1949 hasta el 30 de junio de 1950 , en el sobreentendido de que durante este tiempo de prórroga el Instituto haría una contribución de ciento cincuenta mil dólares ($ 150.000 ) al Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública, para emplearlos en la realización de los proyectos de actividades del Programa, a condición de que el Gobierno del Ecuador entregue al Servicio Cooperativo, para el mismo objeto , la suma de seis millones treinta mil sucres (S/. 6'030.000 ) -equivalentes a cuatrocientos cincuenta mil

1 Aug. 26, 1949. 81939-52-PT. III- 32

2791

2792

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
dólares ($450.000 ) al tipo de 13,40 sucres por dólar-. Vuestra Señoría se sirve manifestarme, además, que el Instituto estaría dispuesto , durante la misma prórroga, a poner a disposición fondos para que sean administrados por el Instituto , y que no estén depositados en la cuenta del Servicio Cooperativo , para el pago de salarios y otros gastos de los miembros del personal del Departamento de Salud y Sanidad, acreditados por el Instituto en el Ecuador ; y que las cantidades en referencia - además de las sumas ya requeridas según el presente Convenio básico , tal como está reformado- deberían ser aportadas y puestas a disposición de las Partes en la prosecución del programa .
2. En respuesta y luego de las pertinentes consultas al correspondiente organismo gubernamental , tengo a honra manifestar a Vuestra Señoría que el Gobierno del Ecuador se encuentra de acuerdo con las apreciaciones y propósitos enunciados en la comunicación que me es grato contestar y conviene en las proposiciones contenidas en la misma para la prórroga del programa cooperativo de salud pública en el Ecuador hasta el 30 de junio de 1950. A tal efecto, el Gobierno ecuatoriano se encuentra realizando las gestiones necesarias para asegurar la contribución de los seis millones treinta mil sucres (S/. 6'030.000) que le corresponde aportar, por su parte, para la continuación de dicho Programa .
3. Me es grato expresar a Vuestra Señoría , además , que mi Gobierno conviene asimismo , en considerar la atenta comunicación a que doy respuesta y la presente nota como constitutivas de un acuerdo entre nuestros dos Gobiernos , el que entrará en vigencia en la fecha de la firma de un convenio entre el señor Ministro de Previsión Social y un representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , que incluya los detalles técnicos correspondientes a los puntos arriba convenidos .
Válgome de la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Señoría las seguridades de mi distinguida consideración .
L. N. PONCE
Al Honorable Señor Don MAURICE M. BERNBAUM, Encargado de Negocios ad-interim de los Estados Unidos de América.

Translation

REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

No. 151 DDP

QUITO, August 22, 1949 MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :
I have the honor to reply to your courteous note number 289 , of July 26 last, in which, with reference to the instruments that regulate the cooperative public health program in Ecuador, and considering the mutual benefits which the Governments of our two countries are
deriving from the said program , you are good enough to inform me that the Government of the United States of America agrees with the

63 STAT. ] ECUADOR- HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 26 , Aug. 22, 1949
Government of Ecuador that an extension of the program beyond June 30 , 1949 , would be desirable, and that accordingly you have been advised by the Department of State that the necessary arrangements may now be made for the Institute of Inter-American Affairs to continue its participation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1949 through June 30 , 1950 , with the understanding that, during this period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($ 150,000 ) to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública, for use in carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that the Government of Ecuador would contribute to the Servicio Cooperativo for the same purpose the sum of six million thirty thousand sucres (S/. 6,030,000) equivalent to four hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($450,000) at the rate of 13.4 sucres to the dollar. You are good enough to inform me , further, that the Institute would be willing, during the same extension period , to make available funds to be administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio Cooperativo , for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Health and Sanitation Division field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Ecuador ; and that the amounts referred to -in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement, as amended- should be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.
2. In reply, and after the appropriate consultations with the respective government agency, I have the honor to inform you that the Government of Ecuador agrees with the appraisals and purposes set forth in the communication , to which I am pleased to answer, and concurs in the proposals contained therein for the extension of the cooperative public health program in Ecuador through June 30, 1950. To this end , the Ecuadoran Government is taking the necessary steps to assure the contribution of six million thirty thousand sucres (S/. 6,030,000) which it has to make, for its share , to the continuation of the said Program.
3. It is a pleasure to inform you, further, that my Government also agrees to consider the note to which I am replying and the present note as constituting an agreement between our two Governments , which will come into force on the date of signature of an agreement between the Minister of Social Welfare and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my distinguished consideration.
L. N. PONCE
The Honorable MAURICE M. BERNBAUM , Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America.

2793

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TRADE, BERLIN-AUG. 13, 1949

2795

Memorandum of understanding between the United States of America and other governments respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin. Signed at Annecy August 13, 1949; entered into force August 13, 1949.

August 13, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 2047]

UNITED NATIONS

NATIONS UNIES

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RELATIVE TO APPLICATION TO THE WESTERN SECTORS OF BERLIN OF THE AGREEMENT ON MOST-FAVOUREDNATION TREATMENT FOR AREAS OF WESTERN GERMANY
UNDER MILITARY OCCUPATION

signed at Annecy, on 13 August 1949

MEMORANDUM D'ACCORD PORTANT APPLICATION AUX SECTEURS QUEST DE BERLIN DE L'ACCORD RELATIF AU TRAITEMENT GENERAL DE LA NATION LA PLUS FAVORISEE CONCERNANT LES ZONES D'OCCUPATION MILITAIRE DE L'ALLEMAGNE
OCCIDENTALE
signé à Annecy, le 13 août 1949

2796

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

MEMORANDUM OF UNDER- MEMORANDUM D'ACCORD

STANDING RELATIVE TO AP- PORTANT APPLICATION AUX

PLICATION TO THE WESTERN SECTEURS OUEST DE BERLIN

SECTORS OF BERLIN OF THE DE L'ACCORD RELATIF AU

AGREEMENT ON MOST TRAITEMENT GENERAL DE

FAVOURED -NATION TREAT- LA NATION LA PLUS FAVORI.

MENT FOR AREAS OF WEST. SEE CONCERNANT LES

ERN GERMANY UNDER MILI- ZONES D'OCCUPATION MILI-

TARY OCCUPATION

TAIRE DE L'ALLEMAGNE

OCCIDENTALE

1. The undersigned , represent- 1. Les soussignés , représentant

ing Governments now signatory les gouvernements actuellement to the Agreement on Most-Fa- signataires de l'Accord relatif au voured-Nation Treatment for traitement général de la nation

Areas of Western Germany under la plus favorisée concernant les Military Occupation, signed 14 zones d'occupation militaire de

p.632653S.tat. , Pt . 3 ,

September 1948 (hereinafter re- l'Allemagne occidentale , signé le ferred to as "the Agreement " ) , 14 septembre 1948 (désigné ciagree, since the same policy con- après comme "l'Accord " ) , étant

siderations as apply to the exten- donné que les principes qui s'apsion of most-favoured-nation pliquent à l'extension du traite-

treatment to the areas clearly ment de la nation la plus favorisée

covered by the Agreement also aux zones nettement visées par apply to the extension of such l'Accord s'appliquent également treatment to the sectors of Berlin à l'extension dudit traitement aux

under occupational control of secteurs de Berlin sous contrôle France, the United Kingdom and militaire des Etats-Unis , de la the United States, that the provi- France et du Royaume-Uni , consions of the Agreement applicable viennent que les dispositions de to Western Germany shall from l'Accord applicables à l'Allemagne the signature hereof be construed occidentale devront être inter-

as applicable in like manner to prétées, à compter de la signature

such sectors of Berlin .

du présent Mémorandum, comme

applicables de façon analogue

auxdits secteurs de Berlin.

62 Stat . , Pt. 3 p. 3655.

2. This Memorandum shall be 2. Le présent Mémorandum
deposited with the Secretary-Gen- sera déposé auprès du Secrétaire eral of the United Nations who général des Nations Unies qui shall transmit a certified copy en enverra une copie certifiée thereof to each Government speci- conforme à chacun des gouvernefied in paragraph 2 of Article ments spécifiés au paragraphe 2 VI of the Agreement. This de l'Article VI de l'Accord. Le
Memorandum shall be open for présent Mémorandum sera ouvert signature by each Government à la signature pour chacun des

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TRADE, BERLIN-AUG. 13, 1949

which has signed , or signs the Agreement .

hereafter gouvernements qui ont déjà signé ou signeront ultérieurement ledit Accord .

DONE at Annecy, in a single FAIT à Annecy en un seul exemcopy, in the English and French plaire rédigé dans les langues languages, both texts authentic, anglaise et française, les deux this thirteenth day of August, 1949. textes faisant également foi , ce
treizième jour d'août 1949 .

For the Kingdom of Belgium:

Pour le Royaume de Belgique:

FRANÇOIS NYS

For the United States of Brazil: Pour les Etats- Unis du Brésil: A. DE VILHENA FERREIRA-BRAGA

For Canada:

Pour le Canada: E. D. WILGRESS

For Ceylon:

Pour Ceylan:

For the Republic of China:

Pour la République de Chine:

For the French Republic :

Pour la République française: E. LECUYER

For India:

Pour l'Inde: M. J. DESAI

For the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg:

Pour le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg:

For the Kingdom ofthe Netherlands : Pour le Royaume des Pays-Bas: C. L. PATIJN 10 Oct. 49

For the Kingdom of Norway:

Pour le Royaume de Norvège :

KNUT THOMMESSEN

For Pakistan:

Pour le Pakistan :

For the Union of South Africa:

Pour l'Union Sud- Africaine:

For the United Kingdom of Great Pour le Royaume- Uni de Grande-

Britain and Northern Ireland:

Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord:

R. SHACKLE

For the United States of America : Pour les Etats- Unis d'Amérique: WOODBURY WILLOUGHBY

For the Republic of Syria:

Pour la République de Syrie:

F. EL-KHOURI

September 24, 1949

2797

2798

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Por la República Dominicana: MAX HENRIQUEZ URENA Octubre 5 , 1949

Certified true copy.

Copie certifiée conforme.

For the Secretary-General:

Pour le Secrétaire général:

KERNO

Assistant Secretary-General in charge of the Legal Department Secrétaire général adjoint chargé du Département juridique

63 STAT. ] COLOMBIA- EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS-JULY 15, 26, 1949

2799

Agreement between the United States of America and Colombia respecting the exchange of official publications. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington July 15 and 26, 1949; entered into force July 26, 1949.

July 15, 26, 1949 [T. I. A. 8. 2048]

The Secretary of State to the Colombian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Jul 15 1949
EXCELLENCY :
I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have taken place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and representatives of the Government of Colombia in regard to the exchange of official publications, and to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :
1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended, without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.
2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the Smithsonian Institution. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of Colombia shall be the Biblioteca Nacional, in Bogotá.
3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of Colombia by the Biblioteca Nacional, in Bogotá.
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications.
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal, rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.

2800

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that the foregoing provisions are acceptable to the Government of Colombia, the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of your note in reply.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
For the Secretary of State :
GEORGE V. ALLEN
His Excellency GONZALO RESTREPO JARAMILLO, Ambassador of Colombia.

The Colombian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

No. 1307

EMBAJADA DE COLOMBIA WASHINGTON July 26, 1949

EXCELLENCY :

With reference to Your Excellency's note of July 15, 1949 , and to the conversations between representatives of the Government of

Colombia and representatives of the Government of the United States

of America in regard to the exchange of official publications, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Colombia agrees that there shall be an exchange of official publications between the two Governments in accordance with the following provisions :
1. Each of the two Governments shall furnish regularly a copy of each of its official publications which is indicated in a selected list prepared by the other Government and communicated through diplomatic channels subsequent to the conclusion of the present agreement. The list of publications selected by each Government may be revised from time to time and may be extended without the necessity of subsequent negotiations, to include any other official publication of the other Government not specified in the list, or publications of new offices which the other Government may establish in the future.
2. The official exchange office for the transmission of publications of the Government of the United States of America shall be the

Smithsonian Institution . The official exchange office for the trans-

mission of publications of the Government of Colombia shall be the Biblioteca Nacional, in Bogotá.

63 STAT. ] COLOMBIA-EXCHANGE OF PUBLICATIONS- JULY 15, 26, 1949

3. The publications shall be received on behalf of the United States of America by the Library of Congress and on behalf of Colombia by the Biblioteca Nacional, in Bogotá.
4. The present agreement does not obligate either of the two Governments to furnish blank forms, circulars which are not of a public character, or confidential publications .
5. Each of the two Governments shall bear all charges, including postal, rail and shipping costs, arising under the present agreement in connection with the transportation within its own country of the publications of both Governments and the shipment of its own publications to a port or other appropriate place reasonably convenient to the exchange office of the other Government.
6. The present agreement shall not be considered as a modification of any existing exchange agreement between a department or agency of one of the Governments and a department or agency of the other Government.
The Government of Colombia considers that your note and this reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of this note.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

His Excellency DEAN ACHESON
Secretary of State Washington, D. C.

GONZALO RESTREPO JARAMILLO Gonzalo Restrepo Jaramillo
Ambassador of Colombia

2801

2802

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

DecFeembbreurar1y6, 71,941894, 9and [T. I. A. 8. 2049]

Agreement between the United States of America and the French Zone of Occupation of Germany respecting duty-free entry of and payment of transportation charges on relief supplies and packages for French Zone of Occupied Germany. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Frankfurt December 16, 1948, and at Baden-Baden February 7, 1949; entered into force February 7, 1949.

The United States Political Adviser and the Deputy Special ECA Representative for the Occupied Areas of Germany to the French Commander-in- Chief in Germany

ECONOMIC COOPERATION ADMINISTRATION OFFICE OF THE SPECIAL MISSION TO GERMANY
FRANKFURT, GERMANY APO 757 DECEMBER 16, 1948

FRENCH COMMANDER- IN-CHIEF, Germany, Baden-Baden, Germany.

DEAR SIR :

For the purpose of giving effect to Article VI , paragraph 2, read

with Article IV, paragraph 5, of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States of America and the French Com-

pp6.2225S8t,a2t25.6. Pt . 2, mander-in-Chief in Germany, signed on July 9, 1948, it is understood that the French Commander-in-Chief in Germany, acting on

behalf of the French Zone of Occupation of Germany, and the Government of the United States of America have agreed as follows :

Duty-free entry.

1. The French Commander-in- Chief in Germany shall accord dutyfree entry into the French Zone of Occupation of Germany of :

a. Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by voluntary non-profit relief agencies having their headquarters in the United States of America and qualified under Economic Cooperation Administration ( hereinafter referred to as ECA) regulations and consigned to such charitable organizations ( including branches of such agencies in the French Zone of Occupation of Germany) as have been or hereafter shall be approved by the French Commander-inChief in Germany.

b. Relief packages originating in the United States and sent by parcel post or commercial channels to any person residing in the French Zone of Occupation of Germany, whether packed privately or by order placed with a commercial firm .

c. Standard packs put up by voluntary non-profit relief agencies having their headquarters in the United States of America and qualified under ECA regulations, or their approved agents,

Dec. 16, 1948 63 STAT. ] GERMANY : FRENCH ZONE-RELIEF SUPPLIES- Feb. 7, 1949

2803

on the order of persons in the United States and sent for

delivery to any person residing in the French Zone of Occupation in Germany.

"Reliefgoods .' 2. For the purpose of this agreement, the term "relief goods" ( par-

agraph 1 (a ) above ) shall not include tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, or such other commodities as may be agreed upon by

the French Commander-in-Chief in Germany and the United States

Government ; "relief packages" ( paragraph 1 (b) above) shall in-

clude only such goods as are qualified for ocean freight subsidy under the ECA Act and regulations issued by the Administrator thereunder, and as may be agreed upon for entry into the French Zone of Occupa-

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 137. 22 U. S. C., Supp. II, §§ 1501--1522.

tion in Germany by the French Commander-in- Chief in Germany and the United States Government ; "standard packs" ( paragraph 1 ( c )

above) shall contain only those articles which qualify under ECA reg-

ulations and are approved by the French Commander-in-Chief in
Germany.
Defrayment oftrans 3. Costs of transportation (as defined in paragraph 5 of Article portation costs.
62 Stat. , Pt . 2, IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement) in the French Zone of p. 2256.
Occupation in Germany on "relief goods", "relief packages" and
"standard packs " shall be defrayed as follows :

a. The amount of such costs for all shipments sent by United States parcel post to persons in the French Zone of Occupation in Germany shall be computed by the German postal services in the area in the manner now or hereafter provided by relevant agreements, rules and regulations of the International Postal System. Such costs shall be reimbursed to such postal service out of the Special Account provided for in Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States of America and the French Commander-in-Chief in
Germany and no claim for such costs shall be made against the United States of America.
b. Shipments originally dispatched from the United States of America by regular established commercial channels and forwarded by German parcel post in the French Zone of Occupation in Germany by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee shall be accepted by the German postal service without payment of postal charges by the agent. The German postal service shall be reimbursed for such parcel post charges out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.
c. Shipments originally dispatched from the United States of America by commercial channel and forwarded by common or contract carrier to the French Zone of Occupation in Germany by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee shall be accepted by the carrier, who may or may not demand from the agent payment of carrier charges. The carrier or the agent, as the case may be, shall be reimbursed

62Stat., Pt. 2, p.2 55.

2804

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

for such charges out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

d. Any charges incurred by an agent of a shipper under subparagraphs (b) and ( c) above, other than parcel post or carrier charges, shall be repaid to such agent out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

Monthly state- 4. The French Commander-in- Chief in Germany shall make payments .
ments out of the Special Account for the purposes specified in sub-

paragraphs (a ) , ( b ) , ( c) , and ( d ) of paragraph 3 above, and shall

submit to the ECA Mission in Germany (with a copy to Controller,

ECA Washington ) monthly statements of such payments in such form as may be agreed by the French Commander-in-Chief in Germany and

the Mission, provided that every statement shall show total weight

Duration.

carried and costs of transportation incurred. Adjustments shall be made in the Special Account, as shown to be required by Eca audit, if requested within one year of the submission of the relevant documents and information.
5. The terms of this note shall become effective immediately and

shall remain in force, subject to such prior termination or modification as may be agreed upon between the Government of the United

States of America and the French Commander-in -Chief in Germany
for the same period as the Economic Cooperation Agreement of July 62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , 9, 1948. p. 2251.

If the foregoing is in accord with your understanding, we should appreciate your so informing us. The two notes then exchanged will constitute an agreement in the premises between the French Commander-in-Chief in Germany, acting on behalf of the French Zone of Occupation in Germany, and the United States of America.
Yours very truly,

ROBERT D. MURPHY

United States Political Advisor for Germany

N. H. COLLISSON

Deputy Special ECA Representative to the Occupied Areas of Germany

Dec. 16, 1948 63 STAT. ] GERMANY : FRENCH ZONE- RELIEF SUPPLIES- Feb. 7, 1949

The French Commander- in-Chief in Germany to the United States Deputy Special ECA Representative for the Occupied Areas of Germany

COMMANDÉMENT EN CHEF FRANÇAIS EN ALLEMAGNE

SECRETARIAT GÉNÉRAL

DIVISION DE L'ÉCONOMIE GÉNÉRALE
ET DES FINANCES

MH/AO N° 61

BADEN-BADEN, LE-7 II 49-N° 00290 19 AEX

Le Général d'Armée KOENIG Commandant en Chef Français en Allemagne
. Monsieur N. H. COLLISSON Deputy Special ECA Representative in the French Zone of occupation,
OBJET: Colis de secours. REFERENCE : Votre lettre du 16 Décembre 1948.
Comme suite à votre lettre citée en référence, j'ai l'honneur de vous faire connaître mon accord en vue de l'extension à la Zone Française du texte définissant le régime des colis de secours adopté en Bizone.

Par Délégation Le Général de Division NOIRET Chargé des Affaires Allemandes
NOIRET

Translation

FRENCH HIGH COMMAND IN GERMANY

GENERAL SECRETARIAT

DIVISION OF GENERAL ECONOMY
AND FINANCE
MH/AO No. 61

BADEN- BADEN, February 7, 1949 No. 00290 AEX

General of the Army KOENIG French Commander-in-Chief in Germany
to

Mr. N. H. COLLISSON Deputy Special ECA Representative in the French Zone of occupation, SUBJECT : Relief Packages. REFERENCE : Your letter of December 16, 1948.

Referring to your letter mentioned in reference, I have the honor to inform you of my agreement with a view to the extension to the French

2805

2806

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Zone of the text defining the system of relief packages adopted in Bizonia.
Per Delegation Lieutenant General NOIRET
In Charge of German Affairs NOIRET

63 STAT.] IRELAND-PASSPORT VISA FEES-AUG. 1, 1949

2807

Agreement between the United States of America and Ireland respecting passport visa fees. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Dublin August 1 , 1949; entered into force August 1 , 1949.

August 1, 1949 [T. I. A. 8. 2050]

The American Minister to the Irish Minister for External Affairs

AMERICAN LEGATION

No. 264

Dublin, Ireland, August 1, 1949

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States is now prepared to conclude an agreement regarding the relaxation of visa requirements between the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of Ireland in the following terms :

1 ) Beginning August 1, 1949, American citizens, in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States, proceeding to Ireland shall not be required to be in possession of valid visas.

2 ) Such American citizens shall otherwise be subject to Irish laws and regulations regarding the entry, short sojourn, and residence or employment in Ireland of persons of other than Irish nationality.
3) The Government of the United States, beginning September 1 , 1949, will grant to Irish citizens who qualify as temporary visitors for business or pleasure purposes under the provisions of clause (2 ) , Section 3, Immigration Act of 1924, as amended, and who are eligible to receive such visas, gratis non-immigrant passport visas valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States and its possessions during a period of twenty-four (24 ) months, provided the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period of time.
4 ) In addition, the Government of the United States, beginning September 1 , 1949, will waive existing fee requirements for all other non-immigrant passport visas granted to eligible, qualified Irish citizens and such visa shall be valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States during a period of twelve ( 12 ) months, provided the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period of time.
The period of validity of a visa relates only to the period within which such visa may be used in connection with an application for admission at a port of entry into the United States and its possessions, and not to the length of stay in the United States which may be permitted the bearer after he is admitted. The period of each stay would, as at present, continue to be determined by the Immigration authorities.

43 Stat. 154. 8 U. S. C. §203.

2808

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
If the Government of the Republic of Ireland is prepared to accept the foregoing conditions and provisions, I have the honor to suggest that the present note and Your Excellency's reply in similar terms should be regarded as placing on record the agreement between the two Governments .
Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration .
GEORGE A. GARRETT American Minister
His Excellency SEAN MACBRIDE ,
Minister for External Affairs, Iveagh House, Dublin, Ireland.

43 Stat. 154. 8 U.S. C. § 203.

The Irish Minister for External Affairs to the American Minister ROINN GNOTHAI EACHTRACHA
DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS BAILE ÁTHA CLIATH DUBLIN

351/14.

1 August, 1949.

EXCELLENCY,

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's Note, No. 264, of the 1st instant stating that the Government of the United States are prepared to conclude an Agreement regarding the relaxation of Visa requirements with the Government of the Republic of Ireland in the following terms :-

( 1 ) Beginning August 1 , 1949 , American citizens, in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States, proceeding to Ireland shall not be required to be in possession of valid visas.
(2) Such American citizens shall otherwise be subject to Irish laws and regulations regarding the entry, short sojourn, and residence or employment in Ireland of persons of other than Irish nationality.
(3) The Government of the United States, beginning September 1, 1949, will grant to Irish citizens who qualify as temporary visitors for business or pleasure purposes under the provisions of clause (2 ) , Section 3, Immigration Act of 1924, as amended, and who are eligible to receive such visas, gratis non-immigrant passport visas valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States and its possessions during a period of twenty- four ( 24 ) months, provided the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period of time.
(4) In addition, the Government of the United States, beginning September 1 , 1949, will waive existing fee requirements for all

63 STAT.] IRELAND-PASSPORT VISA FEES-AUG. 1, 1949
other non-immigrant passport visas granted to eligible, qualified Irish citizens and such visa shall be valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States during a period of twelve ( 12 ) months, provided the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period of time. The period of validity of a visa relates only to the period within which such visa may be used in connection with an application for admission at a port of entry into the United States and its possessions, and not to the length of stay in the United States which may be permitted the bearer after he is admitted. The period of each stay would, as at present, continue to be determined by the Immigration authorities.
I have the honour to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the Republic of Ireland are prepared to accept the foregoing conditions and provisions and concur in the suggestion that Your Excellency's Note and this reply should be regarded as placing on record the Agreement between the two Governments.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.
SEÁN MACBRIDE Minister for External Affairs.
His Excellency GEORGE A. GARRETT, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, American Legation, Dublin.

2809

2810

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

September 27, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 2060]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics respecting the return to the United States of icebreakers andfrigates received by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics under the Lend-Lease Act. Signed at Washington September 27, 1949; entered into force September 27, 1949.

Agreement on Dates and Procedures for Return of Three Icebreakers and

55 Stat. 31. 22 U. S. C. §§ 411419.
Date.

Twenty-Seven Frigates of the United States Navy Received by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics Under the Lend-Lease Act.
1. The return to United States representatives of the vessels will

Ports oftransfer.

be accomplished by the Soviet Government using its own crews not later than December 1, 1949.
2. The vessels will be returned and transferred to United States

representatives, the frigates at the port of Yokosuka, Japan and the icebreakers at the port of Bremerhaven, Germany as follows :

The Frigates in three groups of nine vessels each by November 15, 1949.

The Icebreaker North Wind in October ; the Icebreakers South Wind and West Wind in November.

Equipment, etc.

3. The vessels will be returned with their equipment, spare parts

and ammunition, with the exception of that which has been consumed,

Deed of delivery.

destroyed or lost during the period of the war. 4. The actual transfer of the vessels will be effected by exchange of

a deed of delivery and receipt for each vessel, ( exhibit A attached

hereto ) executed in duplicate both in the English and Russian lan-

guages by the Soviet Officer delivering the vessel and by the receiving

Accommodations for Soviet crews.

United States Officer, one copy of the deed in each language to be retained by each country.
5. Should the Soviet Government so desire, the Government of

the United States will arrange for or provide the Soviet crews with

hotel or barrack accommodations and victuals, consistent with their

rank or rate for the period between disembarking the vessel and departing the port of delivery. Arrangements for the foregoing, including visits ashore, and for other facilities desired for sojourn of the Soviet crews will be coordinated by the Senior United States Naval Commander at the appropriate port ( or his representative) upon re-

ceipt of written request from the Senior Soviet Officer present. Pay-

ment for such accommodations and victuals will be made by the Soviet

Government prior to the departure of the crews.

Return of crews to U. S. S. R.

6. The Soviet Government will make the necessary arrangements

for and bear the expense of the return of its crews to the Soviet Union.

Pilotage, anchorage, etc.

7. The Senior Officer of a group of vessels returning in company

or the Commanding Officer of a vessel returning singly will make ap-

63 STAT. ] U.S.S.R.- RETURN OF NAVAL VESSELS- SEPT. 27, 1949

2811

plication on international frequencies to the Senior United States

Naval Commander at the appropriate port, not less than twenty- four hours prior to the estimated time of arrival, for definite instructions

as to pilotage, anchorage, etc. 8. The following normal procedure will constitute delivery of the
ships :

Procedure for delivery.

(a ) Vessels will proceed to designated berths , secure all but auxiliary machinery ( machinery required for normal operation of the vessel while in port ) , and maintain watch on such machinery until relieved by United States personnel .
(b) The Soviet crew will remove personal effects and Soviet property. Boating assistance will be provided by the United States if required.
(c) United States crews will begin the reception of each vessel upon its arrival at berth, it being understood that the transfer of each vessel will be completed within three days after the arrival of the vessel at the port of transfer.
(d ) The Soviet crew will parade and haul down the Soviet flag with appropriate ceremony.
(e ) The deed of delivery and receipt of the vessel, equipment and stores including a statement of abandonment by the Soviet Government of any Soviet property left on board will be executed by the receiving United States Officer and the Soviet Officer delivering the vessel.
(f) The Soviet crew will depart the ship and the remainder of the United States custodial crew will come aboard.
(g) The United States flag will be hoisted.
9. No gun salutes will be fired or returned. 10. The transfers will be made in the simplest and most expeditious manner and with a minimum of ceremony. 11. A representative of the Senior United States Naval Commander at the appropriate port will call upon the Senior Soviet Officer upon arrival ; otherwise all official calls will be considered as having been made and returned. The present agreement is executed in the Russian and English languages and both texts are equally authentic.
WASHINGTON September 27, 1949 For the Government of the United States of America :
WILLARD L THORP
For the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : A. PANYUSHKIN

Gun salutes. Official calls.
Authentic texts.

2812

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
EXHIBIT A
DEED OF DELIVERY AND RECEIPT
We, the undersigned authorized representatives of the Ministry of the Armed Forces of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, party of the first part, and of the Navy Department of the United States of America, party of the second part, respectively, hereby execute this deed to evidence the fact that the party of the first part has returned and the party of the second part has received and accepted on behalf of the Government of the United States of America the United States

complete with all machinery, equipment, and stores then on board, all

right, title and interest in such machinery , equipment and stores being

hereby expressly abandoned by the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

This transfer has been accomplished this

day of

1949 at

The present deed is executed in the Russian and English languages and both texts are authentic.

Authorized Representative of the Authorized Representative of the Ministry of the Armed Forces of Navy Department of the United the Union of Soviet Socialist States of America. Republics.

63 STAT. ] U.S.S.R. -RETURN OF NAVAL VESSELS-SEPT. 27, 1949

2813

            -   ,    -
   - 1.
I.                   1949 .
2.         -    ,  ,      ,  ,   :
    9     15  1949  ;  "   "   ;  "  "  "  "  . 3.      ,     ,    ,    ,      . 4.               / ,     / ,     ,       ,  ,   ,    ,            -
5.   ,      ,                                      .   ,   "    ,             -

2814

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
 ,     -       /   /        ,   .               .
6.                  .
7.     ,    ,    ,   ,         -           ,   24      ,        ,    ..
8.        :
/       ,    ,    / ,      ,   /            .
6/          .        ,   ;
/             ,  ,                 .

63 STAT. ] U.S.S.R. -RETURN OF NAVAL VESSELS-SEPT. 27, 1949

/           ;
/       ,     ,           ,    ,           ;
0/     ,         ;
/     . 9.       ,       . 10.          . II .    -                 ;         ,      .         ,     .
Bakerto ·  1949 . .27.
     :

       [

Willard L Thorp. 1 A.Panyushkin.

Feasuon kut

81939-52 - PT. III- -33

2815

2816

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

 .
A KT    
 ,  ,            -    ,      ,        ,    ,            

    ,     

    .     

       ,    .

     

1949

 

        ,     .

 
      .

   -    .

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY-APR. 8, 1949

2817

Agreements between the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom respecting basic principles for merger of the three Western German Zones of Occupation, and other matters . Signed at Washington April 8, 1949; entered into force April 8, 1949, except the Occupation Statute which entered into force September 21 , 1949.
AGREEMENTS ON GERMANY

April 8, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 2066]

The Foreign Ministers of France , the United Kingdom and the United States of America, having met in Washington, have reached agreement on the documents listed below:
A. Agreed Memorandum regarding the Principles Governing Exercise of Powers and Responsibilities of US-UK-French Governments following Establishment of German Federal Republic .
B. Occupation Statute defining the Powers to be Retained by the Occupation Authorities .
C. Agreement as to Tripartite Controls . D. Agreed Minute respecting Berlin, E. Agreed Minute on Claims against Germany. F. Agreed Minute on Wuerttemberg-Baden Plebiscite. G. Agreement regarding Kehl . H. Message to the Military Governors from the Foreign Ministers
of the US , UK and France . I. Message to the Bonn Parliamentary Council from the Foreign
Ministers of the US, UK and France.
The Foreign Ministers confirmed and approved the agreements made on plant dismantling, prohibited and restricted industries , and the establishment of the Ruhr Authority, all of which were recently negotiated in London.

Post, p. 2818.
Post, p. 2819. Post, p. 2821. Post, p. 2823.
Post, p. 2825. Post, p. 2901n.

Robert Schuman

Ernest Bevin

Dean Acheson

Minister for Foreign Affairs of the
French Republic

Secretary of State

Secretary of State

for Foreign Affairs

of the

United Kingdom United States of America

SCHUMAN

ERNEST BEVIN

DEAN ACHESON

WASHINGTON, D. C. April 8 , 1949

2818

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

AGREED MEMORANDUM REGARDING THE PRINCIPLES GOVERNING EXERCISE OF POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF US -UK -FRENCH GOVERNMENTS FOLLOWING ESTABLISHMENT OF GERMAN FEDERAL REPUBLIC

Rights of U. S.U. K.-French Governments .
60 Stat. 1649.

1. The Governments of the United States, United Kingdom, and France retain the supreme authority assumed by them under the Declaration signed at Berlin on June 5, 1945 , including the right to

revoke or alter any legislative or administrative decisions in the three

western zones of Germany.
Action by German governing authorities. 2. The German governing authorities, whether Federal or Land,

shall be at liberty to take administrative and legislative action, and

such action will have validity if not vetoed by the Allied Authority.

This means that military government will disappear, and that the

function of the Allies shall be mainly supervisory.

Fields reserved for Allies .

3. There will be certain limited fields in which the Allies will

reserve the right to take direct action themselves, including the issuance of orders to German officials at both the Federal and local

levels . However, these fields will be restricted to a minimum ; and

aside from security matters, the exercise of direct powers by the

Supervision offunds, etc.

Allies should be regarded as temporary and self-liquidating in nature. 4. Upon the coming into being of the German Federal Republic, the
responsibility for supervision of the utilization of funds made available

by the Government of the United States to the German economy for purposes of relief as well as of recovery shall rest with the Economic

Cooperation Administration . It is understood that the German

Federal Republic should become a party to the Convention for the

European Economic Cooperation ['] and execute a bilateral agreement with the Government of the United States . Such contributions as

the Government of the United Kingdom agrees to make shall be

through the intra-European payments agreement. [2]

Functions of Allied

authorities.

5. With the establishment of the German Federal Republic and the

termination of military government, the functions of the Allied

authorities shall be divided , military functions being exercised by a

Commander-in-Chief, and all other functions by a High Commissioner.

Each of the Allied establishments in Germany, aside from occupation

forces, shall come under the direction of the High Commissioner.

miAslsliioend. High Com The three High Commissioners together will constitute the Allied

Post, p. 2821.

High Commission.

6. It is the aim of the three governments to restrict to a minimum the size of the staffs maintained within Germany for the above pur-

poses .

¹ Department of State publication 3145 . Misc. No. 8 (1948) , Cmd . 7546 .

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY - APR. 8, 1949
7. It is a major objective of the three Allied Governments to encourage and facilitate the closest integration, on a mutually beneficial basis, of the German people under a democratic federal state within the framework of a European association .

2819

OCCUPATION STATUTE DEFINING THE POWERS TO BE RETAINED BY THE OCCUPATION AUTHORITIES

In the exercise of the supreme authority which is retained by the Governments of France, the United States and the United Kingdom ,
We, General Pierre KOENIG, Military Governor and Commanderin-Chief of the French Zone of Germany,
General Lucius D. CLAY, Military Governor and Commander-inChief of the United States Zone of Germany, and
General Sir Brian Hubert ROBERTSON, Military Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the British Zone of Germany,

Post, p. 2836.

DO HEREBY JOINTLY PROCLAIM THE FOLLOWING OCCUPATION STATUTE :

Powers of Federal 1. During the period in which it is necessary that the occupation State, etc.
continue, the Governments of France, the United States and the

United Kingdom desire and intend that the German people shall enjoy

self-government to the maximum possible degree consistent with such

occupation . The Federal State and the participating Laender shall

have, subject only to the limitations in this Instrument , full legislative,

executive and judicial powers in accordance with the Basic Law [' ] and

with their respective constitutions . 2. In order to ensure the accomplishment of the basic purposes of
the occupation , powers in the following fields are specifically reserved , including the right to request and verify information and statistics needed by the occupation authorites :

Fields reserved for
occupation authorities.

(a) disarmament and demilitarization , including related fields of scientific research, prohibitions and restrictions on industry, and civil aviation ;

(b) controls in regard to the Ruhr, restitution , reparations , decartelization , deconcentration, non-discrimination in trade matters, foreign interests in Germany and claims against Germany ;
(c) foreign affairs , including international agreements made by or on behalf of Germany ;
(d) displaced persons and the admission of refugees ; (e) protection, prestige, and security of Allied forces , dependents , employees, and representatives, their immunities and satisfaction

of occupation costs and their other requirements ; (f) respect for the Basic Law and the Land constitutions ; (g) control over foreign trade and exchange ; (h) control over internal action, only to the minimum extent
necessary to ensure use of funds, food and other supplies in such

¹ Germany, 1947-1949, The Story in Documents, Department of State publication 3556, p . 283 .

2820

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

manner as to reduce to a minimum the need for external assistance to Germany ;
(i) control of the care and treatment in German prisons of persons charged before or sentenced by the courts or tribunals of the occupying powers or occupation authorities ; over the carrying out of sentences imposed on them ; and over questions of amnesty , pardon or release in relation to them.

3. It is the hope and expectation of the Governments of France, the United States and the United Kingdom that the occupation authorities will not have occasion to take action in fields other than

those specifically reserved above . The occupation authorities, however, reserve the right , acting under instructions of their Govern-

ments, to resume, in whole or in part, the exercise of full authority if they consider that to do so is essential to security or to preserve

democratic government in Germany or in pursuance of the interna-

tional obligations of their governments . Before so doing , they will

Action by Germany in reserved fields.

formally advise the appropriate German authorities of their decision and of the reasons therefor.
4. The German Federal Government and the governments of the

Laender shall have the power, after due notification to the occupation authorities , to legislate and act in the fields reserved to these authori-

ties, except as the occupation authorities otherwise specifically direct ,

or as such legislation or action would be inconsistent with decisions or

actions taken by the occupation authorities themselves. Amendment of Basic Law; other legis- 5. Any amendment of the Basic Law will require the express aplation.
proval of the occupation authorities before becoming effective . Land

constitutions, amendments thereof, all other legislation, and any agreements made between the Federal State and foreign governments ,

will become effective twenty -one days after its official receipt by the

occupation authorities unless previously disapproved by them, pro-

visionally or finally . The occupation authorities will not disapprove

legislation unless in their opinion it is inconsistent with the Basic

Law, a Land Constitution , legislation or other directives of the occu-

pation authorities themselves or the provisions of this Instrument , or unless it constitutes a grave threat to the basic purposes of the

occupation .

Protection of civil

rights.

6. Subject only to the requirements of their security, the occupa-

tion authorities guarantee that all agencies of the occupation will

respect the civil rights of every person to be protected against arbi-

trary arrest, search or seizure ; to be represented by counsel ; to be

admitted to bail as circumstances warrant ; to communicate with

Legislation enacted prior to Basic Law.

relatives ; and to have a fair and prompt trial . 7. Legislation of the occupation authorities enacted before the
effective date of the Basic Law shall remain in force until repealed or

amended by the occupation authorities in accordance with the following provisions :

(a) legislation inconsistent with the foregoing will be repealed or amended to make it consistent herewith ;

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY- APR. 8 , 1949

2821

(b) legislation based upon the reserved powers, referred to

in paragraph 2 above, will be codified ;

(c) legislation not referred to in (a) and (b) will be repealed

by the occupation authorities on request from appropriate German authorities .
8. Any action shall be deemed to be the act of the occupation authorities under the powers herein reserved, and effective as such under this Instrument, when taken or evidenced in any manner provided by any agreement between them. The occupation authorities may in their discretion effectuate their decisions either directly or

Action of occupa tion authorities.

through instructions to the appropriate German authorities . 9. After 12 months and in any event within 18 months of the
effective date of this Instrument the occupying powers will under-

Review of Instrument.
Post, p. 2836.

take a review of its provisions in the light of experience with its

operation and with a view to extending the jurisdiction of the Ger

man authorities in the legislative, executive and judicial fields.

AGREEMENT AS TO TRIPARTITE CONTROLS

The Governments of the United Kingdom, France and the United States agree to enter into a trizonal fusion agreement prior to the entry into effect of the Occupation Statute. The representatives of

Post, p. 2836.

the three occupying powers will make the necessary arrangements to establish tripartite control machinery for the western zones of Germany, which will become effective at the time of the establishment of

a provisional German government. The following provisions agreed

by the Governments of the United Kingdom, France and the United States shall form the basis of these arrangements :

1. An Allied High Commission composed of one High Commissioner of each occupying power or his representative shall be the supreme Allied agency of control.

Allied High Commission .
Ante, p. 2818.

2. The nature and extent of controls exercised by the Allied High

Commission shall be in harmony with the Occupation Statute and international agreements.
3. In order to permit the German Federal Republic to exercise

Staff personnel.

increased responsibilities over domestic affairs and to reduce the

burden of occupation costs, staff personnel shall be kept to a minimum . Approval of amend-
4. In the exercise of the powers reserved to the Occupation Authori- ments to Federal Con-
ties to approve amendments to the Federal Constitution , the decisions stitution.

of the Allied High Commission shall require unanimous agreement . 5. In cases in which the exercise of, or failure to exercise , the
powers reserved under paragraph 5 [ ' ] (g) of the Occupation Statute would increase the need for assistance from United States Govern-

Voting strength. Ante, p . 2819.

ment appropriated funds , there shall be a system of weighted voting .

Under such system the representatives of the Occupation Authorities will have a voting strength proportionate to the funds made available

to Germany by their respective governments . This provision shall

1 The numeral "5" apparently should be "2", see post, p. 2830 , par. 5 .

2822

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

not, however, reduce the present United States predominant voice in JEIA and JFEA while these organizations, or any successor organi-

zation to them, continue in existence and are charged with the performance of any of their present functions . No action taken hereunder shall be contrary to any inter-governmental agreement among the signatories or to the principles of non-discrimination.

Appeal by High Commissioner.
Ante, p. 2819.

6. On all other matters action shall be by majority vote. 7. (a) If a majority decision alters or modifies any inter-governmental agreement which relates to any of the subjects listed in paragraph 5 ['] (a) and 5 [ '] (b) of the Occupation Statute , any dissenting

High Commissioner may appeal to his Government. This appeal

shall serve to suspend the decision pending agreement between the three governments .

(b) If a High Commissioner considers that a majority decision

conflicts with any inter-governmental agreement which relates to any of

the subjects in paragraph 5 [ '] ( a) and 5 [ ' ] (b) of the Occupation Statute

or with the fundamental principles for the conduct of Germany's

external relations or with matters essential to the security, prestige ,

and requirements of the occupying forces, he may appeal to his

Government. Such an appeal shall serve to suspend action for 30

days, and thereafter unless two of the Governments indicate that the

grounds do not justify further suspension .

(c) If such appeal is from an action of the Allied High Com-

mission either declining to disapprove or deciding to disapprove

German legislation, such legislation shall be provisionally disapproved

for the duration of the appeal period .

8. A High Commissioner who considers that a decision made by

less than unanimous vote involving any other matter reserved by the

Occupation Statute is not in conformity with basic tripartite policies

regarding Germany or that a Land constitution , or an amendment

thereto, violates the Basic Law, may appeal to his government. An

appeal in this case shall serve to suspend action for a period not to

exceed twenty-one days from the date of the decision unless all three governments agree otherwise. If such appeal is from an action of

the Allied High Commission either declining to disapprove or deciding

to disapprove German legislation, such legislation shall be provision-

ally disapproved for the duration of the appeal period .

Land Commis-

sioner.

9. All powers of the Allied High Commission shall be uniformly

exercised in accordance with tripartite policies and directives . To

this end in each Land the Allied High Commission shall be repre-

sented by a single Land Commissioner who shall be solely responsible to it for all tripartite affairs . In each Land the Land Commissioner shall be a national of the Allied Power in whose zone the Land is

situated . Outside his own zone each High Commissioner will delegate an observer to each of the Land Commissioners for purposes of

consultation and information . Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to limit the functions of bodies established pursuant to inter-governmental agreement.

The numeral "5" apparently should be "2" , see post, p. 2831 , par. 7 (a) , (b)

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY- APR. 8 , 1949

2823

10. To the greatest extent possible, all directives and other instru-

ments of control shall be addressed to the federal and/or Land authorities .
11. The Trizonal Fusion Agreement will continue in force until

Duration of agreement.

altered by agreement among the governments .

AGREED MINUTE RESPECTING BERLIN
It was agreed that the provisions of the Agreement as to Tripartite Controls shall be applied as far as practicable to the western sectors of Berlin.
AGREED MINUTE ON CLAIMS AGAINST GERMANY
The governments of France, the United Kingdom and the United States will proceed , in consultation with other governments concerned, to develop proposals for the settlement of financial claims against Germany, claims arising out of the war which remain unsettled , claims with respect to Allied property in Germany, and other questions of an economic or legal character arising out of the existance of a state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers. There should also be appropriate consultations with the German Federal Republic . Prior to the relinquishment of reserved powers in the field of foreign exchange, the three governments will give consideration to the desirability of obtaining from the German Federal Government formal recognition of such claims.
AGREED MINUTE ON WUERTTEMBERG- BADEN PLEBISCITE
It was agreed that the status quo in Wuerttemberg and Baden would be maintained for the time being and that the plebiscite recommended by the German Minister Presidents would be postponed in the interest of avoiding any possible delay in the establishment of the German Federal Government.
It was further agreed that the question of the Wuerttemberg-Baden Land boundaries would be reexamined after the establishment of the German Federal Government.
AGREEMENT REGARDING KEHL
The French control authorities with the assistance of the Strasbourg French authorities will maintain under existing conditions jurisdiction over the Kehl port zone until establishment of the German Federal Government and conclusion of negotiations between the French and German Authorities with respect to a joint port administration for Kehl.
It was agreed, on a proposal of the French Government, that the city of Kehl would gradually be returned to a German administration .
81939-52- PT. III 34

2824

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
It was foreseen that the French temporarily domiciled in Kehl might remain during a four-year period required for the preparation of additional housing in Strasbourg . Around one-third of the French inhabitants will be able to leave Kehl within several months, and the remainder progressively thereafter as housing becomes available.
The final decision with respect to the Kehl port zone will be made in the peace settlement. If the port authority develops harmoniously, the US and UK will be willing at the time of the peace settlement to bring an attitude of good will toward the establishment of a permanent joint authority.

MESSAGE TO THE MILITARY GOVERNORS FROM THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF THE US, UK AND FRANCE

Views on Basic Law.

To the Military Governors : For your guidance the Foreign Ministers of the US, UK and France

transmit their views on the Basic Law . It is left to the Military

Governors to determine the time they may consider it appropriate to communicate these views to the Parliamentary Council , but the

Foreign Ministers wish that they be transmitted before opinion in

the Parliamentary Council has crystallized , in order that the views given below may be reflected in the Basic Law.

"(a) The Foreign Ministers are not able to agree at this time that Berlin should be included as a Land in the initial organization of the German Federal Republic .
"(b) In the financial field any provisions put forward by the Parliamentary Council in the direction of securing financial independence and adequate strength for both the lænder and Federal Governments in operating in their respective fields will receive sympathetic consideration .
"(c) On the question of Article 36 (Article 95 (c) ) they will also give sympathetic consideration to any formula which

(i) eliminates from the federal powers those matters definitely excluded by the London agreement .
(ii) assures to the lænder sufficient powers to enable them to be independent and vigorous governmental bodies.
(iii) assures to the Federal Government sufficient powers in the important fields of government to enable them to deal effectively with those fields in which the interests of more than one Land are substantially and necessarily involved .

"(d) Finally, the Foreign Ministers request that the Military Governors indicate to the Parliamentary Council , at an appropriate time, that they are ready to contemplate a suggestion for a right of the Federal State to supplement , from its own revenues , appropriations made by the Laender from revenues from their own taxes levied and collected by them, by grants for education, health and welfare purposes , subject in each case to specific approval of the Bundesrat. "

63 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY-APR. 8, 1949

2825

MESSAGE TO THE BONN PARLIAMENTARY COUNCIL FROM THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF THE US, UK AND FRANCE

To the Military Governors : The Foreign Ministers of the US , UK and France request you to transmit to the Parliamentary Council at Bonn the following message on their behalf:
"The Foreign Ministers have considered the problem of a Federal German Republic in all its aspects in Washington and have come to a number of important decisions of policy in regard thereto . They have decided that, in general, the German authorities shall be at liberty to take administrative and legislative action , and that such action will have validity if not vetoed by Allied authorities . There will be certain limited fields in which the Allies will reserve
the right to take direct action themselves and which are set out in the Occupation Statute, a copy of which is attached hereto .
"With the establishment of the German Federal Republic , Military Government as such will terminate and the functions of the Allied Authorities will be divided - control functions being exercised by a High Commissioner and Military functions by a Commanderin-Chief. The three High Commissioners together will constitute an Allied High Commission , and it is the aim of the three governments to restrict to a minimum the size of the supervisory staffs attached to their respective High Commissioners .
"The Foreign Ministers further affirm that it is a major objective of the three Allied Governments to encourage and facilitate the closest integration on a mutually beneficial basis of the German people under a democratic Federal State within the framework of a European association.
"Nevertheless , before the far-reaching developments which they contemplate can be put in hand , it is essential that an agreement should be reached by the Parliamentary Council upon a Basic Law for the German Federal Republic ."

Policy decisions. Ante, p. 2819.

2826

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

ACCORDS SUR L'ALLEMAGNE

Les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères de la France ' du Royaume-Uni et des Etats-Unis, d'Amérique, s'étant réunis à Washington, sont tombés d'accord sur les documents ci-dessous énumérés :
A.- Aide-Memoire concernant les principes directeurs qui président à l'exercice des pouvoirs et responsabilités des Gouvernements de la France, du Royaume-Uni et des Etats-Unis après l'établissement d'une République Fédérale allemande .
B.- Statut d'occupation définissant les pouvoirs qui seront conservés par les autorités d'occupation .
C.- Accord relatif aux contrôles tripartites . D.- Procès-Verbal concernant Berlin .
E.- Procès-Verbal sur les réclamations contre l'Allemagne . F.- Procès-Verbal sur le plébiscite Bade-Wurtemberg . G.- Accord concernant Kehl .
H.- Message des Ministres des Affaires Ettangères de la France, du Royaume-Uni et des Etats-Unis aux Commandants en Chef.
I. Message des Ministres des Affaires Etrangères de la France ,
du Royaume-Uni et des Etats-Unis au Conseil Parlementaire de Bonn .
Les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères ont confirmé et approuvé les accords passés sur les démantélements d'usines , sur les industries interdites et limitées et sur la création de l'Autorité de la Ruhr, tous accords qui ont été récemment négociés à Londres .

Robert Schuman Ministre des Affaires Etrangères
de la République Française SCHUMAN
DEAN ACHESON

Ernest Bevin Secrétaire d'Etat pour les Affaires Etrangères
du Royaume- Uni ERNEST BEVIN

Dean Acheson Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats- Unis d'Amérique

WASHINGTON, D. C. 8 Avril 1949.

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY- APR. 8, 1949
AIDE-MEMOIRE CONCERNANT LES PRINCIPES DIRECTEURS QUI PRESIDENT A L'EXERCICE DES POUVOIRS ET RESPONSABILITES DES GOUVERNEMENTS DE LA FRANCE, DU ROYAUME-UNI ET DES ETATS -UNIS APRES L'ETABLISSEMENT D'UNE REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ALLEMANDE
1 ) Les Gouvernements de la France, du Royaume-Uni et des EtatsUnis conservent l'autorité suprême assumée par eux aux termes de la Déclaration signée à Berlin le 5 Juin 1945 , y compris le droit de rapporter ou de modifier toutes décisions législatives ou administratives dans les trois zones occidentales d'Allemagne .
2 ) Les autorités gouvernementales allemandes, à l'échelon fédéral ou à celui du Land, devront avoir la faculté d'agir en matière administrative et législative et une telle action sera valide si elle n'encourt pas le veto de l'Autorité Alliée . Ceci implique que le Gouvernement militaire devra disparaître et que le rôle des Alliés devra être principalement de contrôle .
3 ) I existera un nombre limité de domaines dans lesquels les Alliés se réserveront le droit d'agir directement eux-mêmes, y compris par des ordres donnés aux autorités allemandes, au niveau tant fédéral que local. Ces domaines seront toutefois restreints au minimum et , les questions de sécurité mises à part, l'exercice de pouvoirs directs par les Alliés devrait être considéré comme temporaire et destiné par nature à disparaître.
4) Dès la naissance de la République Fédérale Allemande, la responsabilité du contrôle de l'utilisation des fonds mis à la disposition de l'économie allemande par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis , à des fins de secours ainsi que de reconstruction , devrait passer à l'Administration de Coopération Economique. Il est entendu que la République fédérale Allemande doit devenir partie à l'accord sur la Coopération Economique Européenne et appliquer un accord bilatéral passé avec le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis . Les contributions que le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni accepte de faire, s'effectueront par le moyen de l'Accord de paiements inter-européens .
5) Dès l'établissement de la République fédérale Allemande et la fin du Gouvernement militaire, les fonctions des Autorités Alliées seront divisées , les fonctions militaires étant exercées par un Commandant en Chef et toutes les autres fonctions par un Haut Commissaire. Chacune des organisations alliées en Allemagne, hormis les forces d'occupation , seront placées sous la direction du Haut Commissaire . La réunion des trois Hauts Commissaires constituera la Haute Commission Alliée .
6) Le but des trois gouvernements alliés est de restreindre au minimum l'effectif des services maintenus en Allemagne aux fins ci-dessus.
7) L'un des principaux objectifs des trois gouvernements alliés est d'encourager et de faciliter l'intégration la plus étroite possible, sur une base mutuellement profitable, du peuple allemand sous la conduite d'un Etat fédéral démocratique dans une association européenne.

2827

2828

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
STATUT D'OCCUPATION DEFINISSANT LES POUVOIRS DEVANT ETRE CONSERVES PAR LES AUTORITES OCCUPANTES
Dans l'exercice de l'autorité suprême qui est conservée par les Gouvernements de la France, du Royaume-Uni et des Etats-Unis .
Nous , Général d'Armée Pierre Koenig, Gouverneur Militaire et Commandant en Chef de la zone française d'Allemagne ; Général Sir Brian Hubert Robertson, Gouverneur Militaire et Commandant en Chef de la zone britannique d'Allemagne ; Général Lucius Clay, Gouverneur Militaire et Commandant en Chef de la zone américaine d'Allemagne ; Proclamons conjointement par les présentes le Statut d'occupation ci-après :
1.- Au cours de la période pendant laquelle il sera nécessaire de poursuivre l'occupation , le voeu comme l'intention des Gouvernements français, britannique et américain est que le peuple allemand puisse se gouverner lui-même au degré maximum compatible avec une telle occupation. L'Etat Fédéral et les Länder participants détiendront, sous les seules réserves prévues dans le présent instrument, les pleins pouvoirs législatif, exécutif et judiciaire, en conformité avec la Loi Fondamentale et avec leurs constitutions respectives .
2.- En vue d'assurer la mise en oeuvre des objectifs fondamentaux de l'occupation les pouvoirs sont spécifiquement réservés dans les domaines suivants, y compris le droit de requérir et de vérifier les informations et statistiques nécessaires aux autorités d'occupation :
a) Désarmement et démilitarisation, y compris les domaines connexes en matière de recherche scientifique , les prohibitions et limitations portant sur l'industrie, et l'aviation civile ;
b) Les contrôles concernant la Ruhr, les restitutions, les réparations , la décartellisation, la déconcentration, la nondiscrimination en matière commerciale , les intérêts étrangers en Allemagne et les créances sur l'Allemagne ;
c) Les affaires étrangères, y compris les accords internationaux conclus par ou au nom de l'Allemagne ;
d) Les personnes déplacées et l'admission des réfugiés ; e) La protection , le prestige et la sécurité des Forces Alliées , de leurs familles, des personnes à leur service et de leurs représentants, leurs immunités ainsi que la couverture des frais d'occupation et la satisfaction de leurs autres besoins ; f) Le respect de la Loi fondamentale et des constitutions des Etats; g) Le contrôle sur le commerce extérieur et les changes ; h) Le contrôle sur l'administration intérieure, seulement dans la mesure minima nécessaire pour assurer l'utilisation des fonds , du ravitaillement et des autres approvisionnements, dans des conditions permettant de réduire au minimum le besoin d'une aide extérieure pour l'Allemagne ;

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY- APR. 8 , 1949
i ) Le contrôle du régime et des conditions de détention appliqués dans les prisons allemandes aux personnes déférées aux cours ou tribunaux des puissances occupantes ou des autorités d'occupation, ou condamnées par elles ; le contrôle de l'exécution des condamnations prononcées contre ces personnes ; le contrôle sur toutes les questions relatives à leur amnistie, à leur grâce ou à leur mise en liberté ;
3.- Le souhait et l'intention des gouvernements français, britannique et américain est que les autorités d'occupation n'aient pas à prendre de mesures dans des domaines autres que ceux spécifiquement réservés ci-dessus . Toutefois , les autorités d'occupation se réservent le droit de reprendre , sur instructions de leurs gouvernements, en tout ou en partie , l'exercice de leur pleine autorité si elles estiment que cela est essentiel soit pour leur sécurité soit pour sauvegarder une forme démocratique de gouvernement en Allemagne soit pour s'acquitter des obligations internationales de leurs gouvernements . Avant d'y recourir, elles avertiront formellement les autorités allemandes compétentes de leur décision et des raisons qui la motivent.
4.- Le Gouvernement Fédéral allemand et les gouvernements des Etats auront le pouvoir, après avoir dûment informé les autorités d'occupation, de légiférer et d'agir, dans les domaines réservés à ces autorités, sauf si les autorités d'occupation en décident autrement de manière spécifique, ou si ces mesures législatives et administratives sont en contradiction avec les décisions ou les actes des autorités d'occupation elles-mêmes.
5. Tout amendement de la Loi fondamentale devra être expressément approuvé par les autorités d'occupation avant d'entrer en vigueur. Les constitutions des Etats et les amendements à ces constitutions, toute autre législation, et tous accords conclus entre l'Etat Fédéral et des gouvernements étrangers, entreront en vigueur vingtet-un jours après avoir été officiellement reçus par les autorités d'occupation, à moins que celles-ci les aient, au préalable , désapprouvés provisoirement ou définitivement. Les autorités d'occupation ne désapprouveront pas la législation à moins que, à leur avis , cette législation soit incompatible avec la Loi fondamentale, la constitution d'un Etat, la législation ou toute autre directive des autorités d'occupation elles-mêmes , ou les clauses du présent instrument, ou à moins que cette législation ne constitue une grave menace aux objectifs fondamentaux de l'occupation.
6.- Sous la seule réserve des exigences de leur sécurité, les autorités d'occupation garantissent le respect par tous les organismes d'occupation du droit de chacun à être protégé contre toute arrestation, perquisition ou saisie arbitraires, à être représenté par un avocat, à être admis au bénéfice de la liberté provisoire sous caution lorsque les circonstances le justifient, à communiquer avec sa famille et à être jugé impartialement et promptement .
7.- La législation des autorités d'occupation promulguée avant la date d'entrée en vigueur de la Loi fondamentale demeurera en vigueur jusqu'à ce qu'elle soit abrogée ou annulée par les autorités d'occupation, conformément aux dispositions suivantes :

2829

2830

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
a) La législation incompatible avec ce qui précède sera abrogée ou amendée afin de l'harmoniser avec les présentes dispositions ;
b) La législation fondée sur les pouvoirs réservés décrits au paragraphe 2 ci-dessus , sera codifiée ;
c) La législation non visée aux alinéas a et b sera abrogée par les autorités d'occupation sur la requête des autorités allemandes compétentes .
8.- Toute mesure sera considérée comme une mesure des autorités d'occupation en vertu des pouvoirs réservés par les présentes dispositions et applicable comme telle aux termes du présent instrument, lorsqu'elle sera prise ou justifiée en quelque manière que ce soit par un accord passé entre elles . Les autorités d'occupation peuvent , à leur discrétion, mettre en oeuvre leurs décisions , soit directement, soit par des instructions données aux autorités allemandes compétentes .
9.- A l'expiration d'un délai de douze mois et en tout cas dans les dix-huit mois qui suivront la date de mise en application du présent instrument, les puissances occupantes entreprendront une révision de ses dispositions à la lumière de l'expérience résultant de son fonctionnement et en vue d'étendre la compétence des autorités allemandes dans les domaines législatif, exécutif et judiciaire./.
ACCORD CONCERNANT LES CONTROLES TRIPARTITES
Les Gouvernements de la France, du Royaume-Uni et des EtatsUnis conviennent de conclure un accord de fusion trizonale préalablement à l'entrée en vigueur du Statut d'occupation. Les représentants des trois Puissances occupantes feront les arrangements nécessaires pour établir un système de contrôle tripartite pour les zones occidentales d'Allemagne ; ce système entrera en application au moment de l'établissement d'un Gouvernement provisoire allemand. Les dispositions suivantes, dont sont convenus les Gouvernements de la France, du Royaume-Uni et des Etats-Unis constitueront la base de ces arrangements :
1.- Une Haute Commission Alliée composée d'un Haut Commissaire de chacune des Puissances occupantes ou de son représentant sera l'organe suprême allié de contrôle.
2.- La nature et l'étendue des contrôles exercés par la Haute Commission Alliée seront en harmonie avec le Statut d'occupation et les accords internationaux.
3.- Afin de permettre à la République Fédérale allemande d'assumer des responsabilités accrues dans la gestion de ses affaires intérieures et afin de réduire la charge des frais d'occupation , le personnel administratif sera réduit au minimum .
4.- Dans l'exercice du droit réservé aux autorités d'occupation d'approuver les amendements à la Constitution fédérale, les décisions de la Haute Commission Alliée devront être prises à l'unanimité.
5. Dans les cas où l'usage, ou l'impossibilité d'user, des pouvoirs. réservés aux termes du paragraphe 2-g) du Statut d'occupation , accroitrait le besoin d'aide par des fonds en provenance du Gouverne-

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL -WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY- APR . 8 , 1949
ment des Etats-Unis, un système de vote pondéré sera appliqué . Par ce système, les représentants des Autorités d'occupation auront un droit de vote proportionnel aux sommes mises à la disposition de l'Allemagne par leurs Gouvernements respectifs . La présente disposition, toutefois , ne diminuera pas la voix prédominante actuelle des Etats-Unis au sein de la J. E. I. A. et de la J. F. E. A. aussi longtemps que ces organismes, ou tout organisme qui leur succèdera, continueront d'exister et seront chargés de l'exercice de l'une quelconque de leurs fonctions actuelles. Aucune décision prise en vertu de ce système ne pourra être contraire à un accord intergouvernemental conclu entre les signataires ou aux principes de non-discrimination.
6.- Pour toutes autres questions , les décisions seront prises à la majorité.
7. - a) Si une décision prise à la majorité altère ou modifie quelque accord intergouvernemental ayant trait à l'un quelconque des sujets énumérés aux paragraphes 2-a ) et 2-b) du Statut d'occupation, tout Haut Commissaire qui serait d'un avis contraire pourra en appeler à son Gouvernement. Cet appel aura pour effet de suspendre la décision jusqu'à ce qu'intervienne un accord entre les trois Gouvernements .
b) Si un Haut Commissaire considère qu'une décision prise à la majorité est en contradiction avec quelque accord intergouvernemental ayant trait à l'un quelconque des sujets énumérés aux paragraphes 2-a) et 2-b) du Statut d'occupation ou avec les principes fondamentaux touchant la conduite des relations extérieures de l'Allemagne ou avec des questions qui sont essentielles pour la sécurité , le prestige et les besoins des forces d'occupation, il pourra en appeler à son Gouvernement . Un tel appel aura pour effet de suspendre toute action pendant trente jours , et au delà à moins que deux des Gouvernements ne fassent savoir que les motifs ne justifient pas une plus longue suspension .
c) Si un tel appel est formulé à propos d'une action de la Haute Commission Alliée, soit refusant de désapprouver soit décidant de désapprouver une mesure législative alleande , ladite mesure sera provisoirement désapprouvée pour la durée de la période d'appel .
8.- Un Haut Commissaire qui considère qu'une décision prise par un vote qui ne serait pas unanime et touchant tout autre domaine réservé par le Statut d'occupation , n'est pas conforme à la politique fondamentale tripartite relative à l'Allemagne ou qu'une constitution de Land ou un amendement à une telle constitution viole la Loi Fondamentale, pourra en appeler à son Gouvernement. Un appel dans ce cas aura une action suspensive pendant un délai qui n'excédera pas 21 jours à compter de la date de la décision à moins que les trois Gouvernements n'en conviennent autrement . Si un tel appel est relatif à une décision de la Haute Commission Alliée soit refusar de désapprouver soit décidant de désapprouver une mesure législative allemande , une telle mesure sera provisoirement désapprouvée pour la durée de la période d'appel .

2831

2832

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
9. 9. Tous les pouvoirs de la Haute Commission Alliée seront uniformément exercés conformément à la politique et aux directives tripartites . A cette fin, dans chaque Land la Haute Commission Alliée sera représentée par un seul Commissaire de Land qui ne sera responsable qu'envers elle pour toutes les affaires tripartites . Dans chaque Land, le Commissaire de Land sera un ressortissant de la Puissance alliée dans la zone de laquelle le Land est situé . En dehors de sa propre zone , chaque Haut Commissaire délèguera un observateur auprès de chacun des Commissaires de Land aux fins de consultations et d'information . Rien dans ce paragraphe ne sera interprété comme limitant les fonctions des organes établis en application d'un accord intergouvernemental.
10.- Dans toute la mesure du possible, toutes les directives et tous les autres documents du contrôle seront adressés aux Autorités Fédérales et/ou aux Autorités des Länder.
11.- L'accord de fusion trizonale restera en vigueur tant qu'il ne sera pas modifié par un accord entre les Gouvernements .
PROCES -VERBAL RELATIF A BERLIN
Il est convenu que les dispositions de l'Accord sur les Contrôles Tripartites s'appliqueront dans toute la mesure du possible aux secteurs occidentaux de Berlin./.
PROCES -VERBAL RELATIF AUX CREANCES SUR L'ALLEMAGNE
Les Gouvernements de la France, du Royaume-Uni et des EtatsUnis , en consultation avec les autres gouvernements intéressés , étudieront des propositions pour le règlement des créances financières sur l'Allemagne , des créances résultant de la guerre qui ne sont pas encore réglées , des créances relatives à la propriété alliée en Allemagne, et d'autres questions de caractère économique ou juridique résultant de l'existence d'un état de guerre entre l'Allemagne et les Puissances Alliées . Des consultations appropriées interviendront également avec la République Fédérale Allemande . Avant de se dessaisir des pouvoirs réservés dans le domaine des changes , les trois gouvernements examineront s'il est désirable d'obtenir du Gouvernement Fédéral allemand la reconnaissance formelle de telles créances.
PROCES- VERBAL RELATIF AU PLEBISCITE BADE -WURTEMBERG
Il est convenu que le statu quo sera maintenu provisoirement dans le Bade et le Wurtemberg et que le plébiscite recommandé par les Ministres Présidents allemands sera ajourné, afin d'éviter tout retard possible dans l'établissement du Gouvernement Fédéral allemand .

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY-APR. 8, 1949
Il est également décidé que la question des frontières des Länder du Bade et du Wurtemberg sera examinée à nouveau après l'établissement du Gouvernement Fédéral allemand./.
ACCORD CONCERNANT KEHL
Les autorités françaises du contrôle avec l'aide des autorités françaises de Strasbourg maintiendront dans les conditions existantes leur juridiction sur la zone du port de Kehl jusqu'à l'établissement du Gouvernement Fédéral allemand et l'aboutissement de négociations entre les autorités françaises et allemandes en vue d'une administration conjointe du port de Kehl .
Il a été entendu sur la proposition du gouvernement français que la ville de Kehl sera graduellement rendue à l'administration allemande . Il a été prévu que les Français domiciliés à titre temporaire à Kehl pourront y rester durant une période de quatre ans nécessaire pour la préparation de logements supplémentaires à Strasbourg. Environ un tiers des habitants français seront à même d'abandonner Kehl dans quelques mois , et les autres ultérieurement, d'une manière progressive, au fur et à mesure des possibilités de relogement.
La décision finale concernant la zone du port de Kehl interviendra dans le règlement de paix. Si l'autorité du port se développe harmonieusement, les Etats-Unis et le Royaume-Uni seront disposés lors du règlement de paix à témoigner d'une attitude de bonne volonté concernant l'établissement d'une autorité conjointe permanente./.
MESSAGE DES MINISTRES DES AFFAIRES ETRANGERES DE LA FRANCE , DU ROYAUME-UNI ET DES ETATS -UNIS AUX COMMANDANTS EN CHEF
Pour les Commandants en Chef: Pour votre information, les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères de
la France , du Royaume-Uni et des Etats-Unis vous transmettent leurs vues sur la Loi Fondamentale. Il est laissé à l'appréciation des Commandants en Chef le soin de déterminer le moment qu'ils estimeront approprié pour communiquer ces vues au Conseil Parlementaire ; les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères désirent toutefois que ces vues soient transmises avant que l'opinion du Conseil Parlementaire ne soit cristallisée, afin qu'elles soient prises en considération dans la Loi Fondamentale .
"a) Les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères ne peuvent accepter, au moment présent, que Berlin soit inclus à titre de Land dans l'organisation initiale de la République Fédérale allemande.
"b) En matière financière, toute disposition proposée par le Conseil Parlementaire et tendant à assurer l'indépendance financière et la vigueur appropriée, tant aux Gouvernements des Länder

2833

2834

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
qu'au Gouvernement Fédéral, chacun dans leur domaine respectif, sera examinée avec sympathie. "c) Pour ce qui est de l'Article 36 (Article 95-c) les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères examineront également avec sympathie toute formule : (i) éliminant des pouvoirs fédéraux les matières spécifiquement
exclues par l'Accord de Londres . (ii ) assurant aux Länder des pouvoirs suffisants pour leur
permettre d'être des organismes gouvernementaux indépendants et vigoureux. (iii ) assurant au Gouvernement Fédéral des pouvoirs suffisants, dans les domaines gouvernementaux importants, pour lui permettre d'agir efficacement dans tels domaines où les intérêts de plus d'un Land sont substantiellement et nécessairement impliqués . "d) Enfin les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères demandent aux Commandants en Chef d'indiquer au Conseil Parlementaire, à une date appropriée, qu'ils sont prêts à envisager une suggestion tendant à accorder à l'Etat Fédéral le droit de compléter, sur ses propres revenus , les crédits consentis par les Länder sur les revenus provenant de leurs impôts propres , assis et perçus par eux, et ce, par des subventions pour l'éducation, la santé et l'assistance, sous réserve dans chaque cas de l'approbation expresse du Bundesrat ."
MESSAGE DES MINISTRES DES AFFAIRES ETRANGERES DE LA FRANCE , DU ROYAUME-UNI ET DES ETATS -UNIS AU CONSEIL PARLEMENTAIRE DE BONN
Pour les Commandants en Chef: Les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères de la France, du Royaume-
Uni et des Etats-Unis vous prient de transmettre de leur part au Conseil Parlementaire de Bonn le message suivant:
"Les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères ont examiné à Washington sous tous ses aspects le problème d'une République Fédérale allemande et sont arrivés à un certain nombre d'importantes décisions politiques à cet égard. Ils ont décidé que d'une manière générale , les Autorités allemandes auront la faculté d'agir en matière administrative et législative et qu'une telle action sera valide si elle n'encourt pas le veto des Autorités alliées . Il y aura un nombre limité de domaines dans lesquels les Alliés se réserveront le droit d'agir directement eux-mêmes ; ces domaines sont précisés dans le Statut d'occupation dont une copie est ci-jointe.
"Dès l'établissement de la République Fédérale allemande , le Gouvernement militaire cessera d'exister en tant que tel et les fonctions des Autorités alliées seront divisées -les fonctions de contrôle étant exercées par un Haut Commissaire et les fonctions militaires par un Commandant en Chef. La réunion des trois Hauts Commissaires

63 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WESTERN ZONES IN GERMANY- APR. 8, 1949
constituera une "Haute Commission Alliée", et le but des trois Gouvernements est de restreindre au minimum l'effectif des services de contrôle placés auprès de leurs Hauts Commissaires respectifs.
"Les Ministres des Affaires Etrangères affirment en outre que l'un des principaux objectifs des trois Gouvernements alliés est d'encourager et de faciliter l'intégration la plus étroite possible, sur une base mutuellement profitable, du peuple allemand sous la conduite d'un Etat Fédéral démocratique, dans une association européenne.
"Néanmoins, avant que les développements d'une grande portée qu'ils envisagent puissent être mis en oeuvre , il est essentiel qu'un accord soit atteint par le Conseil Parlementaire sur la Loi Fondamentale de la République Fédérale allemande."

2835

2836

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

ALLIED HIGH COMMISSION FOR GERMANY

DECLARATION concerning the
ENTRY INTO FORCE of the
OCCUPATION STATUTE

Ante, p. 2819. Entry into force.

WHEREAS by letter dated 12 May 1949 [ ] the Military Governors and Commanders-in-Chief of the French, United States and British Zones of Germany, respectively, informed the President of the Parliamentary Council at Bonn that the Occupation Statute had been promulgated by them as of that date, and that, "upon the convening of the legislative bodies provided for in the Basic Law, and upon the election of the President and the election and appointment of the Chancellor and the Federal Ministers , respectively, in the manner provided for in the Basic Law, the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany will then be established and the Occupation Statute shall thereupon enter into force" ; and
WHEREAS the conditions aforesaid have been satisfied ; and it is expedient formally to declare the entry into force of the Occupation Statute ;
Now, THEREFORE , the Council of the Allied High Commission hereby declares that the Occupation Statute entered into force as from 21 September 1949.
Done at Bonn, Petersberg, on 21 September 1949.

A kan hmu uch InJeller

A. FRANCOIS-PONCET

JOHN J. NOCLOY

French ligh Commissioner U.S. High Commissioner

for Germany

for Germany

Maobation
B.H. ROBERTSON U.K. Iigh Commissioner
for Germany

¹ Germany, 1947-1949 , The Story in Documents , Department of State publication 3556, p . 279.

63 STAT. ] BELGIUM- SURPLUS PROPERTY SETTLEMENT-MAY 12, 1949

2837

Agreement between the United States of America and Belgium, amending the agreement of September 24, 1946, effecting a surplus property settlement. Signed at Paris May 12, 1949; entered into force May 12, 1949.
AN AGREEMENT AMENDING THE AGREEMENT OF 24 SEPTEMBER 1946 RELATING TO THE TRANSFER OF U.S. SURPLUS PROPERTY IN BELGIUM

May 12, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 2070]

Under the terms of the Agreement Relating to the Transfer of 62 Stat . , Pt . 3 ,
U.S. Surplus Property in Belgium dated 24 September 1946 , the Bel- p. 3984. gian Government, through the Office of Mutual Aid ( OMA) , has sold substantial quantities of the stocks turned over to it for sale under the terms of said Agreement. There still remain, however, considerable quantities which have not yet been sold.
It is the desire of our two governments in accordance with the under62 Stat . , Pt . 3,
standing expressed in paragraph 7 of said Agreement, to agree as to p. 3988. the most advantageous and expeditious manner of liquidating these remaining stocks and to this end agree as follows :
(1) The Belgian Government agrees to sell, prior to 1 July 1951 , in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement of 24
September 1946, all property (including scrap and salvage) specified in Article I of the Agreement, located in Belgium which has been or is, prior to 31 March 1949, declared to the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner as surplus to the needs of the Government of the United States and transferred to the Belgian Government for disposal.
(2 ) The terms of this Amendment, in so far as they are in conflict with the terms of the Agreement of 24 September 1946, shall be considered as controlling.
Done at Paris, France, in duplicate this 12 day of May, 1949.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF BELGIUM

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

J. JACQUIN Director General - O. M. A.

A ERIC TAFF CentralField Commissioner for Europe

2838

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

July 28 and August 19, 1949
(T. I. A. S. 2077)

Agreement between the United States of America and Guatemala respecting a cooperative educational program in Guatemala , modifying and extending the program of August 12, 1944, as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Guatemala July 28 and August 19, 1949; entered into force August 23, 1949 , operative retroactively from June 30, 1949.

The American Ambassador to the Guatemalan Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 105 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Guatemala, July 28, 1949

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, [ 1 ] as amended , pp6. 2400S8t, a40t3.2, Pt . 3, entered into on August 12, 1944 , between the Republic of Guatemala
and the predecessor of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, providing for the existing cooperative education program in Guatemala. I also refer to Your Excellency's note of May 23, 1949, [ 2 ] suggesting

Period of extension.

the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.
Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are de-

riving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Guatemala that an extension of the program beyond its present ter-

nination date of June 30, 1949, would be desirable. Accordingly, I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its partici-

Contributions.

pation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1949, through June 30, 1950. It would be understood that, during this period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of

$30,000 , in the currency of the United States, to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educacion, for use in carrying out project

activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of Q120,000.

The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds in an amount not to exceed $90,000 to be ad-

ministered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Education Division field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Guatemala. The amounts referred to would be in addition

to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement, as amended, to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.

' Signed Aug. 12, 1944. ' Not printed.

July 28, 1949 63 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-
Aug. 19, 1949
The Government of the United States of America will consider the
present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature [ 1 ] of an agreement by the Minister of Public Education and a representative of The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, embodying the above-mentioned technical details.
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Public Education and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
RICHARD C. PATTERSON, JR. His Excellency
Licenciado don ENRIQUE MUNOZ MEANY, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Guatemala.

The Guatemalan Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA SECCION DIPLOMATICA

860.E. (73.32 ) SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

GUATEMALA, 19 de agosto de 1949.

Tengo el honor de referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia

número 105 , de fecha 28 de julio recién pasado, relacionada con la prórroga, por un año, del Programa Cooperativo Educacional que se ha desarrollado en el país, de conformidad con el convenio suscrito por el Ministro de Educación Pública, en representación del Gobierno de Guatemala, y el predecesor del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, y la ampliación del mismo, fechadas el 12 de agosto de 1944 y el 23 de octubre de 1945, respectivamente.
Este Ministerio ha quedado debidamente enterado de que el ilustrado Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia, tomando en consideracíon los beneficios mutuos que se han derivado del Programa de referencia, está de acuerdo con mi Gobierno sobre la conveniencia de prorrogar

dicho Programa por un año más a partir del 30 de junio de 1949. Asimismo, me complace comunicar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Mi-
nisterio de Educación Pública, en representación del Gobierno de Guatemala, ha manifestado que está de acuerdo en que dicha prórroga se lleve a cabo bajo las siguientes condiciones :
Durante el período de prórroga el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos aportará al Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación una contribución de $30.000 , moneda de los Estados Unidos,

¹Aug. 23, 1949.

2839

2840

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
para ser empleada en el desarrollo de las actividades proyectadas en el Programa en el entendido de que el Gobierno de Guatemala contribuirá al Servicio, para los mismos fines, con la suma de Q.120.000 . El Instituto estará también dispuesto durante el período de prórroga a poner a disposición fondos que no pasarán de la suma de $90.000 que será administrada por el Instituto y no puesta a cuenta del Servicio, para el pago de salarios y otros gastos de los miembros del Departamento de Educación que el Instituto mantiene en Guatemala. Las sumas mencionadas serán adicionales a las establecidas en el presente arreglo básico, como ha quedado enmendado, como contribución de las partes para el desarrollo del Programa.
Es entendido además, que la presente nota y la atenta comunicación de Vuestra Excelencia número 105 , del 28 de julio recién pasado , son constitutivas de un acuerdo entre los Gobiernos de Guatemala y de los Estados Unidos para la prórroga del Programa Cooperativo Educacional por un año, contado a partir del 30 de junio de 1949, que entrará en vigor en la fecha de la firma de un convenio entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y un representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos que comprenda los detalles técnicos arriba mencionados.
Me es grato expresar al ilustrado Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, por el digno conducto de Vuestra Excelencia el agradecimiento de mi Gobierno por esta importante colaboración en el campo educativo .
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi consideración más alta y distinguida ,
E. MUÑOZ MEANY.
Excelentísimo señor RICHARD C. PATTERSON, JR. , Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos, Ciudad.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA DIPLOMATIC SECTION

360.E. (73.32 )

GUATEMALA, August 19, 1949.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

Ante, p. 2838.

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's courteous note No. 105, dated July 28 , 1949 , relative to the extension for one year of the

pp6.2400S8t,a4t032. Pt. 3,

cooperative educational program which has been carried out in my country, in accordance with the agreement entered into by the Minister of Public Education, on behalf of the Government of Guatemala , and the predecessor of the Institute of Inter- American Affairs, and the extension thereof, dated August 12 , 1944 and October 23 , 1945 , respec-
tively.

This Ministry has duly noted that Your Excellency's Government, considering the mutual benefits derived from the aforementioned pro-

July 28, 1949 63 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Aug. 19, 1949
gram, agrees with my Government that an extension of the program for a period of one year beyond June 30, 1949 would be desirable.
I also take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that the Ministry of Public Education , on behalf of the Government of Guatemala , has stated that it agrees that the aforementioned extension be carried out under the following conditions :
During the period of extension the Institute of Inter- American Affairs would make a contribution of $30,000 , in the currency of the United States, to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación, for use in carrying out project activities of the program , on condition that the Government of Guatemala would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of Q120,000 . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds in an amount not to exceed $90,000 to be administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Education Division field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Guatemala . The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present basic agreement, as amended, to be contributed by the parties in furtherance of the program.
It is furthermore understood that the present note and Your Excellency's courteous note No. 105, dated July 28, 1949, constitute an agreement between the Government of Guatemala and the Government of the United States for the extension of the cooperative educational program for one year, from June 30 , 1949 , which shall come into force on the date of signature of an agreement by the Minister of Public Education and a representative of the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, embodying the above-mentioned technical details.
I take pleasure in expressing to the Government of the United States, through Your Excellency, my Government's gratitude for this important cooperation in the educational field.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
E. MUÑOZ MEANY.
His Excellency RICHARD C. PATTERSON, JR., Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States, City.

2841

2842

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

December 28, 1948 and
August 30, 1949
IT I. A. S. 2086)

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico establishing a United States-Mexican Commission on Cultural Cooperation. Effected by exchange of notes signed at México December 28, 1948, and August 30, 1949 ; entered into force August 30, 1949.

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Acting Minister for Foreign Relations

EMBASSY OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 2787

Mexico, D. F., December 28, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have taken

place between representatives of the Government of the United States

of America and representatives of the Government of the United

Mexican States regarding the desirability of promoting closer cultural cooperation between the two countries through cooperative efforts de-

signed to integrate and expand the wide variety of cultural programs

and activities of mutual interest which are carried on by the two Gov-

United States-Mexican Commission on

ernments and by United States and Mexican educational and scientific institutions.
It is my understanding that these conversations have resulted in

Cultural Cooperation. agreement upon the establishment of a mixed commission, to be called the United States-Mexican Commission on Cultural Cooperation,

which shall undertake to promote the integration and expansion of those activities of cultural cooperation which the two countries may consider of mutual interest, in accordance with the following provisions :

Members.

1. The Commission shall be composed of three United States members and three Mexican members. The United States members,

together with three alternate members, shall be appointed by the Ambassador of the United States of America to the United Mexican

Meetings , headquarters, etc.
Duties and functjons.

States, and the Mexican members, together with three alternates, shall be appointed by the Minister of Education. Members of the Commission shall be selected from persons resident in Mexico who are familiar with United States-Mexican activities in the field of cultural cooperation.
2. The Commission shall meet at least once every three months. The headquarters of the Commission shall be at Mexico, D. F., but meetings of the Commission may be held at appropriate places in either country.
3. The Commission shall have the following duties and functions :

(a ) to study and appraise United States-Mexican programs and activities in the field of cultural cooperation of interest to the two

63 STAT.]

MEXICO- CULTURAL

Dec. COOPERATION-

28,

1948

Aug. 30, 1949

2843

countries which are carried on by agencies of the two Governments

and by private educational and scientific organizations and institutions ;

(b) to recommend to either or both Governments measures for coordinating and improving the operation of current programs and activities in the field of United States-Mexican cultural cooperation ;

(c) to recommend to either or both Governments the study and adoption, when appropriate, of new projects for United StatesMexican cultural cooperation ;

(d) to advise private educational and scientific organizations and institutions of both countries, when so requested, with respect to

methods for improving and expanding their programs and activities in the field of United States-Mexican cultural exchange ;

(e) to keep Government agencies and private organizations and institutions which are interested in the development of closer cultural relations between the two countries informed regarding the programs and activities of other agencies, organizations, and institutions having like interests ;

(f) to survey the general field of relations pertaining to cultural cooperation between the two countries from time to time and prepare for consideration by the two Governments comprehensive plans for the future development and expansion of such relations.
4. The Commission shall be assisted in the performance of its duties by an Advisory Council. The Council shall be composed of persons who are familiar with matters in the field of cultural co-

Advisory Council.

operation which may interest the two countries, and it shall to the greatest extent possible be representative of the various artistic,

literary and scientific fields. The United States members of the Council shall be appointed by the Ambassador of the United States of America to the United Mexican States and the Mexican members

by the Minister of Education. 5. As soon as possible after its establishment the Commission shall

Regulations .

draw up detailed regulations defining the scope of its activities and

providing for the conduct of its meetings and the performance of

its duties and functions. These regulations shall become effective

immediately upon approval by the two Governments. 6. The present agreement shall remain in effect for a period of
three years from the date of its entry into force and shall continue

Duration; termination.

in force thereafter until one of the Governments terminates it by

giving to the other Government notice in writing six months in advance. Such notice may be given six months before the expiration of the initial three-year term or at any time thereafter.

It is understood that participation by either Government in the work of the Commission shall not of itself entail any change in existing procedures for the allocation and expenditure by the agencies of either Government of funds available for use in connection with various United States-Mexican programs of cultural cooperation which are of interest to the two countries.

2844 Entry into force.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that the foregoing provisions are acceptable to the Government of the United Mexican States, the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and your reply constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, the agreement to enter into force on the date of Your Excellency's note.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

WALTER THURSTON
His Excellency Señor Don MANUEL TELLO Acting Minister for Foreign Relations México, D. F.

The Mexican Acting Minister for Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO

No.-512322.

MÉXICO, D. F., a 30 de agosto de 1949.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR : Tengo la honra de referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia
número 2787, fechada el 28 de diciembre de 1948, así como a las conversaciones que se han celebrado entre representantes del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos y representantes del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , sobre la conveniencia de fomentar una cooperación cultural más estrecha entre los dos países por medio de esfuerzos de cooperación tendientes a integrar y a ensanchar la gran variedad de programas y de labores culturales de interés mutuo que vienen desarrollando los dos Gobiernos y diversas instituciones docentes y científicas de México y los Estados Unidos.
Tengo entendido que en estas conversaciones se ha llegado al acuerdo de establecer una comisión mixta, que sería denominada "Comisión de Cooperación Cultural México-Estados Unidos" y que se encargará de fomentar la integración y la ampliación de los trabajos de cooperación cultural que los dos países consideren de mutuo interés, de acuerdo con las siguientes estipulaciones :

1.- La Comisión estará integrada por tres miembros mexicanos y tres miembros de Estados Unidos. Los segundos, al igual que tres miembros alternos, serán designados por el Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América en México, y los miembros mexicanos, al igual que tres miembros alternos , serán designados por el Secretario de Educación Pública. Los miembros de la Comisión serán seleccionados entre personas residentes en México que estén familiarizadas con las cuestiones de cooperación cultural México-Norteamericana.

63 STAT. ] MEXICO-CULTURAL COOPERATION- Dec. 28, 1948 Aug. 30, 1949
2.- La Comisión se reunirá cuando menos una vez cada tres meses. Su sede estará en la ciudad de México, D. F. , pero sus reuniones podrán celebrarse en lugares apropiados en cualquiera de los dos países.
3.- La Comisión tendrá los siguientes deberes y funciones :
a) Estudiar y ponderar los programas y los trabajos de cooperación cultural México -Norteamericana que interesen a los dos países y que se estén llevando a cabo por dependencias de uno u otro Gobierno y por organizaciones e instituciones privadas de carácter docente of científico .
b) Recomendar medidas a cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos, o a ambos, para coordinar y mejorar el desarrollo de sus programas y trabajos ordinarios en materia de cooperación cultural MéxicoNorteamericana .
c) Recomendar a cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos, o a ambos , el estudio y la adopción, en su caso, de nuevos proyectos de cooperación cultural México-Norteamericana.
d ) Sugerir métodos a organizaciones e instituciones docentes y científicas privadas de ambos países, cuando así lo soliciten, para mejorar y ampliar sus programas y actividades de intercambio. cultural México-Norteamericano.
e) Mantener informadas a las dependencias gubernamentales y a las organizaciones e instituciones docentes y científicas privadas que se interesen en el desarrollo de relaciones culturales más estrechas entre ambos países, sobre los programas y las actividades de otras dependencias , organizaciones e instituciones que tengan intereses similares.
f) Examinar de vez en cuando el estado general de las relaciones de cooperación cultural entre ambos países y preparar, para someterlos a la consideración de los dos Gobiernos, proyectos de gran alcance para el desarrollo y la ampliación futuros de dichas relaciones.
4.-La Comisión será auxiliada en el desempeño de sus obligaciones por un Consejo Consultivo. El Consejo lo constituirán personas familiarizadas con las cuestiones de cooperación cultural que interesen a los dos países y será representativo, en la medida más amplia posible, de las diversas ramas artísticas, literarias y científicas de importancia . Los miembros norteamericanos del Consejo serán designados por el Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América en México, y los miembros mexicanos por el Secretario de Educación Pública.
5.- Tan pronto como sea posible, una vez establecida la Comisión , ésta dictará reglamentos detallados que definan el campo de sus actividades y que normen la celebración de sus reuniones y el desempeño de sus deberes y funciones. Estos reglamentos entrarán en vigor inmediatamente después de que hayan sido aprobados por los dos Gobiernos.
6.- El presente Acuerdo surtirá efectos por un período de tres años, contado a partir de la fecha en que entre en vigor ; al término de dicho plazo, continuará vigente hasta que uno de los dos Gobiernos

2845

2846 Ante, p. 2842.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
lo dé por terminado mediante aviso por escrito al otro Gobierno con seis meses de anticipación. Este aviso podrá ser dado seis meses antes de la expiración del período inicial de tres años o en cualquier fecha posterior.
Queda entendido que la participación de cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos en el trabajo de la Comisión no entrañará, por sí sola, ningún cambio en los procedimientos existentes para que las dependencias de cualquiera de los dos Gobiernos asignen y utilicen los fondos de que pueden disponer en conexión con los diversos programas de cooperación cultural que interesan a los dos países.
Como se sirve Vuestra Excelencia decir en la nota a que hago referencia, queda convenido que al comunicarle en la presente que mi Gobierno acepta las medidas anteriores, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América considerará que esta misma nota y la de Vuestra Excelencia constituyen un acuerdo entre los dos Gobiernos, sobre esta materia, que entrará en vigor a partir de la fecha de hoy.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta consideración.
MANUEL TELLO.
Al Excelentísimo Señor WALTER THURSTON, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO

No. 512322.

MÉXICO, D. F. , August 30, 1949.

MR. AMBASSADOR : I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's courteous note no.
2787, dated December 28, 1948, and to the conversations which have taken place between representatives of the Government of the United Mexican States and representatives of the United States of America regarding the desirability of promoting closer cultural cooperation between the two countries through cooperative efforts designed to integrate and expand the wide variety of cultural programs and activities of mutual interest which are being carried on by the two Governments and various educational and scientific institutions of Mexico and the United States.

It is my understanding that in these conversations an agreement has been reached to establish a mixed commission, which would be called the "Mexico-United States Commission on Cultural Cooperation," and which will be charged with promoting the integration and expansion of those activities of cultural cooperation which the two countries may consider of mutual interest, in accordance with the following stipulations :

63 STAT.]

MEXICO- CULTURAL

COOPERATION-

Dec. 28, 1948 Aug. 30, 1949

[ For English language text, see ante, p. 2842. ]
It is understood that participation by either Government in the work of the Commission shall not of itself entail any change in existing procedures for the allocation and expenditure by the agencies of either Government of funds available for use in connection with the various programs of cultural cooperation which are of interest to the two countries.
As Your Excellency states in the note to which I refer, it is agreed that, upon my informing you in the present note that my Government accepts the foregoing provisions, the Government of the United States. of America will consider that this note and that of Your Excellency constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject which will enter into force as of this date.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .

MANUEL TELLO.

His Excellency WALTER THURSTON, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City.

2847

81939-52- PT. III- -35

2848

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Fe(bTr.uIa.rAy.1S0.,1240,9119]49

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Mexico, extending and modifying the agreement of June 30 and July 1, 1943, as amended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at México February 10 and 14, 1949; entered into force February 14, 1949, operative retroactively from December 31, 1948.

The Mexican Acting Minister for Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO

52088

MÉXICO, D. F. , a 10 de febrero de 1949.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR : Con referencia a mi nota número 51068 de fecha 10 de enero
próximo pasado, y como resultado de las conversaciones celebradas entre la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores y esa Embajada respecto a la prórroga del Convenio concluido entre la Secretaría de Salubridad y Asistencia y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , para llevar a cabo un programa cooperativo de salud y saneamiento en México , tengo el honor de manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que la Secretaría de Salubridad y Asistencia está de acuerdo en concertar el Convenio de prórroga para dicho programa, en los siguientes términos :

"La Secretaría de Salubridad y Asistencia (a la que de aquí en adelante se denominará "La Secretaría" ) , representada por el

Señor Doctor Rafael Pascasio Gamboa, Secretario de Salubridad y Asistencia, (al que de aquí en adelante se denominará "El Secre-

tario "), y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos (al que de aquí en adelante se denominará "El Instituto" ) , corporación

dependiente del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, representado por su Jefe del Grupo de Campo de la División de

Salud y Saneamiento , Wyman R. Stone (al que de aquí en adelante se denominará "El Jefe del Grupo de Campo ") , han convenido , de

conformidad con la solicitud de La Secretaría, y de acuerdo con

el intercambio de notas fechadas

y

entre el Subse-

cretario de Relaciones Exteriores, Encargado del Despacho, y el

Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América en México , los

siguientes detalles técnicos para ampliar y modificar, en la forma en que aquí se consigna, el Convenio entre La Secretaría y El Instituto resultante del intercambio de correspondencia entre el

representante del Instituto y el Jefe del entonces Departamento de Salubridad de México , de fecha 2 de julio de 1943 , según fué

modificado por subsecuentes cartas cambiadas entre el Vicepresidente Ejecutivo del Instituto y el Secretario de Salubridad y Asistencia de México , de fechas 1º de noviembre y 6 y 7 de diciembre

63 STAT.] MEXICO- HEALTH AND SANITATION- FEB. 10, 14, 1949
de 1943 (al que de aquí en adelante se denominará "El Convenio Básico " ), estableciendo un programa cooperativo de salud y saneamiento para México .
CLAUSULA I El programa cooperativo de salud y saneamiento establecido por el Convenio Básico , se prorroga, por medio del presente, por un período adicional de seis meses contados desde el 31 de diciembre de 1948 hasta el 30 de junio de 1949.
CLAUSULA II
Además de los fondos con que el Convenio Básico establece que deben contribuir o hacer asequibles de alguna otra manera las partes del mismo respecto al programa cooperativo, el Instituto proporcionará los fondos necesarios para el pago de los salarios y todos los demás gastos de su personal de campo en México durante el período que cubra este Acuerdo de Prórroga . Estos fondos deberán ser administrados por el Instituto y no deberán ser depositados en el crédito de la Dirección de Cooperación Interamericana de Salubridad Pública (a la que de aquí en adelante se denominará " La Dirección") .
CLAUSULA III
Los saldos no gastados y no comprometidos de todas las contribuciones financieras que el Acuerdo Básico dispone que deben ser proporcionados por las Partes del programa cooperativo de salud y saneamiento continuarán disponibles para tal programa durante el período de este Convenio de Prórroga y no se requiere que se haga ninguna contribución financiera adicional por las Partes del mismo o por cuenta de la Dirección para los fines de llevar adelante el programa durante el período comprendido por este Convenio de Prórroga.
CLAUSULA IV
Las Partes , por medio de un acuerdo escrito del Secretario y del Jefe del Grupo de Campo, podrán disponer contribuciones de fondos por cualquiera de las dos o por ambas Partes o por terceras partes para utilizarlas en la realización del programa cooperative de salud y saneamiento además de los fondos que se establece deben aportarse y hacerse asequibles por este Convenio de Prórroga y el Convenio Básico .
CLAUSULA V
El Convenio Básico permanecerá en plena vigencia y efectividad para el propósito de prorrogar el programa cooperativo de salud y saneamiento , según se establece en este documento , y todas las disposiciones del Convenio Básico, así como todos los acuerdos , decretos y leyes del Gobierno Mexicano que lo complementen serán aplicables a todas las operaciones y actividades comprendidas en este Convenio de Prórroga en la misma extensión y con el mismo efecto como si hubiesen sido establecidos expresamente en este documento : EXCEPTO que el Convenio Básico , en su aplicación al período al que se refiere este Convenio de Prórroga se considerará

2849

2850

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

modificado y suplementado por las disposiciones de este Convenio de Prórroga, incluyendo los siguientes detalles:

1.- Las Partes declaran que reconocen que el Instituto , siendo una corporación dependiente del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, totalmente poseído , dirigido y controlado por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , está autorizado para compartir plenamente todos los privilegios e inmunidades, incluyendo las inmunidades de juicio en los tribunales de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos, de que gozan los Estados Unidos de América.
2.- Las Partes convienen que de cualesquiera fondos de la Dirección que no hayan sido gastados al terminar este Convenio de Prórroga se dispondrá de acuerdo con un Convenio escrito entre el Secretario y el Jefe del Grupo de Campo .
-3. Por acuerdo entre el Secretario y el Jefe del Grupo de Campo, los fondos de la Dirección deberán ser usados para reembolsar o sufragar los salarios, gastos de manutención, gastos de viaje y transporte y otros gastos de personal adicional de la División de Salud y Saneamiento del Instituto en México que las Partes mencionadas acuerden que sea necesario emplear, además de los empleados a que se refiere la Cláusula II de este documento . Tales fondos podrán ser aportados o concedidos para los propósitos enunciados, por la Dirección al Instituto o a cualquier otra Organización, pero en cada caso el Secretario y el Jefe del Grupo de Campo concertarán un Convenio escrito de programa estableciendo el alcance y las demás condiciones necesarias de tales contribuciones o donaciones.
CLAUSULA VI
Este Convenio de Prórroga será efectivo en la fecha de su firma.

EN FE DE LO CUAL, las Partes han acordado que este Convenio de

Prórroga sea firmado por sus representantes debidamente auto-

rizados , en quintuplicado , en ambos idiomas, español e inglés, en

la ciudad de México , Estados Unidos Mexicanos , a ..

día

1949 .

LA SECRETARIA DE SALUBRIDAD Y ASISTENCIA
Por:

EL INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTERAMERICANOS

Por:

"

Si el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos está de acuerdo con los

términos del proyecto preinserto , la Secretaría de Salubridad y Asistencia y el mismo Instituto podrían proceder de inmediato a la firma del Convenio de Prórroga del programa cooperativo de salud y saneamiento mencionado .

En espera de la contestación de Vuestra Excelencia, me es grato reiterarle las seguridades de mi más alta consideración.

Al Excelentísimo Señor WALTER THURSTON,

MANUEL TELLO.

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad.

63 STAT. ] MEXICO-HEALTH AND SANITATION- FEB. 10, 14, 1949

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS UNITED MEXICAN STATES MEXICO
52088

MÉXICO , D.F. , February 10, 1949.

MR. AMBASSADOR : With reference to my note No. 51068 [ ] of January 10 last , and
pursuant to the conversations held between the Department of Foreign Relations and your Embassy concerning the extension of the Agreement concluded between the Department of Health and Welfare and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs to carry out a cooperative health and sanitation program in Mexico, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Department of Health and Welfare agrees to enter into the Agreement extending the said program , in the following terms :
[For the English language text of the extension agreement , see post, p. 2852. ]
If the Institute of Inter-American Affairs agrees to the terms of the above draft, the Department of Health and Welfare and the Institute can proceed forthwith to the signing of the Agreement extending the cooperative health and sanitation program aforementioned.
Awaiting Your Excellency's reply, I am pleased to renew to you the assurances of my highest consideration.
Manuel Tello.

His Excellency WALTER THURSTON, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City.

2851

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Acting Minister for Foreign Relations

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 2849 EXCELLENCY :

México, D. F., February 14, 1949

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note No. 52088 of

February 10 , 1949, in which is included the text of an Extension Agreement to be signed by representatives of the Institute of Inter-American

Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which would govern the work of the Institute in Mexico until June 30, 1949 .
I have submitted the text of the Extension Agreement , as proposed

in Your Excellency's note under reference, to Mr. Wyman R. Stone, the local representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , and I have been informed by Mr. Stone that the Extension Agreement , the

Ante, p. 2848.

' Not printed.

2852

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

terms of which are set forth here below, is entirely acceptable to the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.

Post, p. 2854.

"The Ministry of Health and Welfare (hereinafter referred to as

the "Ministry") , represented by Dr. Rafael Pascasio Gamboa,

Secretary of Public Health and Welfare (hereinafter referred to as the " Secretary") , and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs

(hereinafter referred to as the "Institute") , a corporate instrumen-

tality of the Government of the United States of America, represented by its Chief of Field Party, Health and Sanitation Division, Wyman R. Stone, (hereinafter referred to as the " Chief of Field

Party" ) , have agreed , pursuant to the request of the Ministry, and

in accordance with the exchange of notes [ '] dated

and

between the Acting Minister of Foreign Relations of Mexico and the Ambassador of the United States of America in Mexico , upon

Basic Agreement.
Extension.
Funds made available by the Institute.

the following technical details for extending and modifying , in the manner hereinafter set forth, the Agreement between the Ministry and the Institute, arising out of the exchange of correspondence between the representative of the Institute and the Chief of the then Department of Public Health of Mexico dated July 2 , 1943 , [2] as amended by subsequent letters between the Executive Vice President of the Institute and the Secretary of Public Health and Welfare of Mexico , dated November 1 , December 6 and 7, 1943, ["] (Hereinafter referred to as the " Basic Agreement" ) , providing for a cooperative health and sanitation program in Mexico.
CLAUSE I
The cooperative health and sanitation program provided for in the Basic Agreement is hereby extended for an additional period of six months from December 31 , 1948 , through June 30 , 1949.
CLAUSE II
In addition to the funds required by the Basic Agreement to be contributed or otherwise made available by the parties thereto with respect to the cooperative program, the Institute shall make available the funds necessary to pay the salaries and all other expenses of its field staff in Mexico during the period covered by this Extension Agreement. These funds shall be administered by the Institute and shall not be deposited to the credit of the Dirección de Cooperación Interamericana de Salubridad Pública (hereinafter referred to as the "Dirección") .

Unexpended balance of financial con-
tributions.

CLAUSE III The unexpended and unobligated balance of all financial contributions required by the Basic Agreement to be made available by

1 A reference to the present exchange of notes is intended. 2 Not printed. The correspondence constituted an arrangement regarding administrative and technical details, based upon the agreement effected by exchange of notes dated June 30 and July 1 , 1943 ( Executive Agreement Series 347 ; 57 Stat. 1121).
Not printed. The data contained in these letters are the subject of the exchange of diplomatic notes of Dec. 8, 1943 (Treaties and Other International Acts Series 2063 ; 62 Stat. , Pt. 3, p . 3978) .

63 STAT. ] MEXICO-HEALTH AND SANITATION-FEB. 10, 14, 1949

2853

the parties for the cooperative health and sanitation program shall continue to remain available for such program during the period of

this Extension Agreement and no additional financial contributions

are required to be made by the parties hereto to or on behalf of the Dirección for the purpose of carrying on the program during the period comprehended by this Extension Agreement.

CLAUSE IV
Provision for addiThe parties hereto , by written agreement of the Secretary and the tional contributions.

Chief of Field Party, may provide for contributions of funds by either or both parties, or by third parties, for use in effectuating the cooperative health and sanitation program in addition to the funds required to be contributed and made available by this Extension Agreement and the Basic Agreement .

CLAUSE V The Basic Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the BasFiocrcAegraenedmeenffte.ct of

purpose of extending the cooperative health and sanitation program, as provided herein, and all provisions of the Basic Agreement, as well as all the agreements , decrees and laws of the Mexican Government that complement it shall be applicable to all operations and activities under this Extension Agreement to the same extent

and with the same effect as though expressly set forth herein :

EXCEPT that the Basic Agreement, in its application to the period

provided for in this Extension Agreement, shall be deemed to be

amended and supplemented by the provisions of this Extension

Agreement, including the following particulars :
Privileges and im. 1. The parties hereto declare their recognition that the Institute, munities.

being a corporate instrumentality of the United States of America,

wholly owned, directed , and controlled by the Government of the

United States of America, is entitled to share fully in all the privi-

leges and immunities, including immunity from suit in the courts

of the United States of Mexico , which are enjoyed by the United States of America .
2. The parties hereto agree that any funds of the Dirección

Unexpended funds.

which remain unexpended on the termination of this Extension

Agreement shall be disposed of in accordance with a written agree-

ment between the Secretary and the Chief of Field Party. 3. By mutual agreement between the Secretary and the Chief

Use offunds.

of Field Party , funds of the Dirección may be used to reimburse or

defray the salaries, living expenses, travel and transportation costs,

and other expenses of such additional personnel of the Health and

Sanitation Division of the Institute in Mexico as the parties men-

tioned may agree are necessary to be employed , in addition to the

employees referred to under Clause II hereof. Such funds may be contributed or granted for such purposes by the Dirección to the Institute or to any other organization, but in every case the Secretary and the Chief of Field Party will enter into a written project agreement setting forth the scope and the other necessary terms of such contributions or grants.

2854 Effective date.
Ante, p. 2852.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

CLAUSE VI

This Extension Agreement shall become effective on the date it is

signed . ['] IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Exten-

sion Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized represent-

atives, in quintuplicate, both in the Spanish and English languages,

in Mexico City, United Mexican States , this.

day of

1949 .

THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND WELFARE
By:

THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS
By:

It is my understanding that this note completes the exchange of notes mentioned in the opening paragraph of the Extension Agreement , and that the two representatives of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , may now

proceed with the signing of the Extension Agreement . I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the
assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

His Excellency Señor Don MANUEL TELLO ,

WALTER THURSTON

Acting Minister for Foreign Relations, México, D. F.

1 Feb. 17, 1949.

63 STAT. ] PERU-HEALTH AND SANITATION- OCT. 4, 18, 1949

2855

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Peru, providing for an extension of the program, as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima October 4 and 18, 1949 ; entered into force October 18, 1949, operative retroactively July 1, 1949.

October 4, 18, 1949 [T. I. A. 8. 2102]

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY,

No. 643

Lima, Perú, October 4, 1949.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement [ ] between the Government of Perú and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs ,
61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , as later modified and extended, [2] providing for the initiation and pp. 2484, 2961; Pt . 4, execution of the Health and Sanitation Cooperative Program in P. 3361 . Perú . I also refer to Your Excellency's note no . (D) .- 6-3/71 , of

September 29, 1949 , [3] accepting an extension of this Agreement as proposed in this Embassy's note no . 469 of June 8, 1949. [³ ]
I am submitting for Your Excellency's consideration, therefore, a draft of the proposed Agreement which has already received the unofficial approval of the Minister of Health . This Note, together with your reply note, shall constitute an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature [*] by designated representatives of the Government of Perú and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

HAROLD H. TITTMANN

Enclosure : [ ] Draft of proposed Agreement.
His Excellency Rear Admiral don ERNESTO RODRÍGUEZ , Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ciudad.

1 Not printed . An agreement between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, effected by exchange of letters dated July 7 and 11 , 1942, pursuant to the agreement effected by exchange of notes dated May 9 and 11 , 1942 (Executive Agreement Series 441 ; 58 Stat. 1543) .
2 See also Treaties and Other International Acts Series 2101 . · Not printed.
Oct. 18, 1949 ; operative retroactively July 1 , 1949 .

81939-52- PT. III- -36

2856

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

NUMERO: D 6-3/79 SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO
LIMA, 18 de octubre de 1949.

Tengo a honra referirme a la atenta nota N° 643 de 4 de octubre último en la que Vuestra Excelencia se sirve referirse al Acuerdo Básico entre el Gobierno del Perú y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos que contiene disposiciones para la iniciación del Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Sanitario del Perú.

Al respecto tengo el agrado de expresar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Ministerio de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social ha reiterado su aprobación a la extensión del mencionado Convenio cuya copia se ha servido Vuestra Excelencia adjuntar a su citada comunicación.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia los sentimientos de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .

Excelentísimo Señor HAROLD H. TITTMANN Embajador de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica en el Perú Ciudad. -

E RODRÍGUEZ

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP

NUMBER : D 6-3/79 MR. AMBASSADOR :

LIMA, October 18, 1949.

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's courteous note No. 643 dated October 4, 1949 , in which you are good enough to refer to

the Basic Agreement between the Government of Peru and the

Institute of Inter-American Affairs containing provisions for the initiation of the Health and Sanitation Cooperative Program in Peru.

In this regard, I take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare has confirmed its

approval of the extension of the aforementioned Agreement, a copy

of which Your Excellency was good enough to enclose with your abovementioned communication .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

His Excellency HAROLD H. TITTMANN Ambassador of the United States of North America in Peru City. -

E RODRÍGUEZ

July 23, Oct. 21, 27, 1948 2857 63 STAT. ] BRAZIL--VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION-- Aug. 23, Sept. 29, 1949

Agreements between the United States of America and Brazil extending J2u7l, y192438,, OAcutgoubesrt 2213,, and amending the agreement of January 3, 1946, respecting vocational September 29, 1949 (T. I. A. S. 2115] industrial education. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rio de
Janeiro August 23 and September 29, 1949; entered into force October 4, 1949, operative retroactively from June 30, 1948. And exchange of notes signed at Rio de Janeiro July 23 and October 21 and 27, 1948;
entered into force October 30, 1948, operative retroactively from June 30, 1948.

The Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

DAI/103/542.2 (22)

MINISTERIO DAS RELAÇÕES EXTERIORES , RIO DE JANEIRO.
Em 23 de agosto de 1949.

SENHOR EMBAIXADOR ,

O Ministério da Educação e Saúde do Brasil e o "Institute of Inter-American Affairs" , por intermédio de sua "Education Division "

no Brasil , alteraram, por Têrmo Aditivo , assinado no Rio de Janeiro ,

a 30 de junho de 1949 , nas condições especificadas no referido Têrmo , o Acôrdo firmado no Rio de Janeiro , a 30 de outubro de 1948 , decorrente das notas trocadas entre o Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil e o

Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, no Rio de Janeiro , a 23 de

julho, 21 e 27 de outubro de 1948 , destinados todos a prorrogar o

Acôrdo sôbre Educação Industrial- vocacional, assinado no Rio de Janeiro, a 3 de janeiro de 1946 , entre o Ministério da Educação e Saúde do Brasil e a "Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc" , atualmente "Education Division" do mencionado Instituto .

2. Pelo Têrmo Aditivo em questão , de 30 de junho de 1949 , as cláusulas I e II do Acôrdo de Prorrogação , de 30 de outubro de 1948 , acima citado, passaram a ter a seguinte redação :

CLÁUSULA I

O programa de cooperação promovido pelo Acôrdo Básico é prorrogado, por meio dêste, pelo período adicional de dois anos , a contar de 30 de junho de 1948 , até 30 de junho de 1950. CLÁUSULA II

Além dos fundos referidos no Acôrdo Básico a serem depositados ou mobilizados por outra forma, pelas partes contratantes , relativamente ao programa de cooperação educacional, fundos êstes já depositados ou disponíveis , as partes contratantes depositarão e porão à disposição fundos para a continuação do programa de cooperação educacional durante o período abrangido por êste Acôrdo de Prorrogação , na conformidade do seguinte esquema:

2858

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
1. O Instituto porá à disposição os fundos necessários ao pagamento dos salários e outras despesas do corpo técnico e administrativo de sua Education Division no Brasil, durante o período dêste Acôrdo de Prorrogação , desde que o total dêstes fundos não exceda de US$ 125,000.00 . Esta importância será administrada pelo Instituto e não será depositada a crédito da Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação Industrial (doravante chamada "CBAI" ) .
2. Dentro dos 15 dias seguintes ao registo do crédito brasileiro , o Instituto depositará na conta bancária especial da CBAI (doravante chamada "Conta Bancária da CBAI " ) , no Banco do Brasil, a soma de US$ . . . . . 100,000.00 ou seu equivalente em cruzeiros (a qual, à taxa de câmbio de Cr$ 18,50 por dólar, é igual a Cr$. 1.850.000,00) .
3. O Governo , além do seu orçamento regular para educação industrial, depositará, dentro dos 15 dias seguintes ao registo do crédito brasileiro, na conta bancária da CBAI a soma de Cr$ 7.000.000,00 (a qual, à taxa de câmbio de Cr$ 18,50 por dólar, é igual a US$. 378, 378.38) .
4. Os fundos a serem depositados pelo Instituto , na forma do número 2 desta Cláusula II , estarão disponíveis para o pagamento das despesas da CBAI, empenhadas em 1. de julho de 1948 , ou depois, mas todos os fundos a serem depositados dentro dos 15 dias seguintes ao registo do crédito brasileiro , por qualquer das partes , não estarão disponíveis para retirada ou despesas até que todos os depósitos , devidos e pagáveis pela outra parte , tenham sido feitos . 3. Estando o Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil inteiramente acorde com as alterações feitas às cláusulas I e II do Acôrdo de 30 de outubro de 1948 , que prorrogou o Acôrdo , de 1946 , sôbre Educação Industrial -vocacional, constantes do Têrmo Aditivo de 30 de junho de 1949 , firmado entre o Ministério da Educação e Saúde do Brasil e o "Institute of Inter-American Affairs " , como se acham transcritas acima, muito agradeceria se Vossa Excelência me informasse se o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América dá ao referido Têrmo Aditivo e às cláusulas nas quais está redigido e acima reproduzidas a mesma aprovação definitiva . No caso afirmativo , esta nota, e a resposta de Vossa Excelência , que confirmar essa aprovação definitiva, constituirão um acordo formal entre os dois Governos , sôbre o assunto em questão , acôrdo êsse que entrará em vigor na data do registo, no Tribunal de Contas do Brasil, do Acôrdo de Prorrogação, de 30 de outubro de 1948 , e de seu Têrmo Aditivo , de 30 de junho de 1949 . Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
RAUL FERNANDES
A Sua Excelência o Senhor HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON, Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América.

63 STAT. ] BRAZIL VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION- July 23, Oct. 21, 27, 1948 2859 Aug. 23, Sept. 29, 1949
Translation

DAI/103/542.2 (22) MR. AMBASSADOR ,

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS , RIO DE JANEIRO . August 23, 1949.

The Ministry of Education and Health of Brazil and the Institute

of Inter-American Affairs , through its Educational Division in Brazil,

in accordance with the Additional Amendment signed in Rio de

Janeiro on June 30 , 1949 , [ '] and under the terms specified in such

Additional Amendment, changed the Agreement signed in Rio de Janeiro on October 30 , 1948 , resulting from the notes exchanged

Post, p. 2869.

between the Government of the United States of Brazil and the

Government of the United States of America in Rio de Janeiro on
Post, pp. 2861, 2863, July 23 and October 21 and 27 , 1948 , all envisaging an extension 2868.

of the Agreement on Vocational Education signed in Rio de Janeiro

on January 3 , 1946 , between the Ministry of Education and Health

of Brazil and the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , now the Educational Division of the said Institute.

60 Stat. 1768.

2. According to the Additional Amendment in question of June 30 , 1949 , clauses I and II of the aforementioned Extension Agreement of October 30 , 1948 , were changed to read as follows :

Post, p. 2869.

CLAUSE I

The cooperative education program provided for in the Basic Agreement is hereby extended for an additional period of two years from June 30, 1948 through June 30 , 1950 . CLAUSE II

In addition to the funds required by the Basic Agreement to be contributed or otherwise made available by the parties thereto with respect to the cooperative education program, which funds heretofore have been contributed or otherwise made available, the parties hereto shall contribute and make available funds for use in continuing the cooperative education program during the period covered by this Extension Agreement, in accordance with the following schedule : 1. The Institute shall make available the funds necessary to pay the salaries and all other expenses of its Education Division field staff in Brazil , during the period covered by this Extension Agreement, provided that the amount of such funds shall not exceed US$ 125,000.00 . This amount shall be administered by the Institute and shall not be deposited to the credit of the Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação Industrial (hereinafter referred to as the "CBAI " ) . 2. Fifteen days after the registration of the Brazilian appropriation the Institute shall deposit , in the CBAI Special bank account (hereinafter referred to as the " CBAI bank account" ) , in the Banco do Brasil , the sum of US $ 100,000.00 or its equivalent in Cruzeiros
¹ Not printed.

2860 Post,p 2869.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
(which, at the exchange rate of Cr$ 18,50 to $ 1.00 equals Cr$ 1.850.000,00) . 3. The Government , in addition to its regular budget for industrial education, shall deposit, fifteen days after the registration of the Brazilian appropriation , in the CBAI bank account, the sum of Cr$7.000.000,00 (which, at the exchange rate of Cr$ 18,50 to $ 1.00 equals US$378,378.38) . 4. The funds to be deposited by the Institute , under sub-paragraph 2 of this Clause II, shall be available for payment of the CBAI expenses incurred on and after July 1st, 1948 , but all funds required to be deposited 15 days after the registration of the Brazilian appropriation, by either party, shall not be available for withdrawal or expenditure until all deposits due and payable from the other party have been made. 3. Since the Government of the United States of Brazil entirely approves of the changes made in clauses I and II of the Agreement of 1946 on Vocational Education , contained in the Additional Amendment of June 30, 1949, signed between the Ministry of Education and Health of Brazil and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , as transcribed hereinabove, I should greatly appreciate it if Your Excellency would inform me whether the Government of the United States of America gives the same definite and final approval to the said Additional Amendment and to the clauses thereof as transcribed above. In case of an affirmative reply, this note, and Your Excellency's reply thereto, confirming such definitive approval, will constitute a formal agreement between our two Governments on the matter in question, which agreement will come into force on the date of registration, with the Accounts Tribunal of Brazil, [' ] of the Extension Agreement of October 30 , 1948 , and its Additional Amendment of June 30 , 1949 . I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
RAUL FERNANDES His Excellency
HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON, Ambassador of the United States of America.

Ante, p. 2857.

The American Ambassador to the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

No. 207 EXCELLENCY :

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Rio de Janeiro, September 29, 1949.

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note (DAI/ 103/

542.2 (22) of August 23 , 1949 relative to the cooperative program of Vocational education in Brazil and to state that my government ap-

proves the Additional Amendment of June 30, 1949 , also clauses I and II thereof as transcribed in the aforementioned note.

1 Oct. 4, 1949.

63 STAT. ] BRAZIL- VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION- July 23, Oct. 21, 27, 1948 2861 Aug. 23, Sept. 29, 1949

Accordingly, this note and Your Excellency's note of August 23 , 1949 will be considered as constituting a formal agreement between our two Governments with respect to the extension of the cooperative program on vocational education and will come into force on the date the Extension Agreement of October 30, 1948 and the Additional Amendment of June 30, 1949 are registered with the Accounts Tribunal of Brazil .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON .

Post, p. 2869.

His Excellency Dr. RAUL FERNANDES,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rio de Janeiro.

The American Ambassador to the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

No. 193 EXCELLENCY :

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Rio de Janeiro, July 23, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Government of the United States of Brazil and the Inter-American

Educational Foundation, Inc. , dated January 3 , 1946 , as amended, which provided for the initiation and execution of the cooperative

program of vocational education in Brazil. I also refer to Foreign Office note (DAI/87/542.2 (22 ) of July 19 , 1948 [ ] suggesting the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.

In accordance with legislation enacted during 1947 by the Congress of the United States of America and approved by the President of my

country all of the property, funds, functions , personnel , liabilities and restrictions of the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc., were transferred to The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate

instrumentality of my Government created by such legislative action. Consequently, the participation by my Government in the cooperative program of vocational education is now being effectuated through The Institute of Inter-American Affairs.

As Your Excellency knows , the Basic Agreement of January 3, 1946,

as amended , provided that the cooperative program of vocational education terminate on June 30, 1948. However, considering the

mutual benefits which both governments have derived from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Brazil that an

extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised

by the Department of State in Washington, D. C. that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the

60 Stat. 1768. 60 Stat. 1768.

1 Not printed.

2862

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
cooperative program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1948 through June 30, 1949 , upon the condition that a formal agreement, providing for the extension of the cooperative program , is signed by authorized representatives of our two governments not later than September 30 , 1948. It would be understood that during such period of extension, namely, from June 30 , 1948 through June 30, 1949, the Institute would make a contribution of $ 100,000.00 U. S. Cy. to the credit of Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute to the same organization for the same purpose the sum of Cr$7,000,000.00 . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available an amount not exceeding $ 125,000.00 U. S. Cy. to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Comissão BrasileiraAmericana de Educação Industrial, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute, Education Division, Field Staff, who are maintained by the Institute in Brazil . The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government , I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the ex-
tension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Education and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
In accordance with the desire of your Government that the cooperative work of Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial be continued pending the signing of the formal agreement to extend the cooperative education program, and in order to assure continuity of the program , my Government is willing to continue to maintain in Brazil the staff of specialists in vocational education of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs which was provided for in the Basic Agreement for such time as it may be reasonably necessary to reach an agreement on the technical details of the extension agreement. Your Excellency will appreciate, however, that no funds can be deposited to the account of Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs until the formal agreement, extending the cooperative education program in Brazil , is signed by authorized representatives of our two governments.
The Special Representative of The Institute in Brazil has been authorized to enter into a written agreement with the Superintendent of Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial to provide for the use of Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial funds remaining unexpended at the close of June 30 , 1948 , for financing only existing projects being undertaken by Comissão BrasileiraAmericana de Educação Industrial pending the signing, on or before September 30 , 1948 , of a formal extension agreement .
It is understood that your Government will extend the same recognition to The Institute of Inter-American Affairs which was extended

63 STAT. ] BRAZIL- VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION- July 23, Oct. 21, 27, 1948 2863 Aug. 23, Sept. 29, 1949

to The Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. by Clause XVIII of the Basic Agreement and that The Institute and its person-

nel in Brazil , who are citizens of the United States of America, will be extended the same exemptions and immunities extended to The Foundation and its personnel pursuant to such Clause XVIII of the Basic Agreement.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two governments , which shall come into

force on the date of the signature of an agreement by the Minister of Education and Health of Brazil and the Special Representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs [ '] embodying the above mentioned technical details .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

His Excellency RAUL FERNANDES ,

HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON .

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rio de Janeiro.

60 Stat. 1773. Post, p. 2873.

The Brazilian Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DAS RELAÇÕES EXTERIORES , RIO DE JANEIRO .

DAI/136/542.2(22)

Em 21 de outubro de 1948 .

SENHOR EMBAIXADOR ,

Tenho a honra de acusar o recebimento da nota nº 193 , de 23 de julho último, na qual Vossa Excelência se refere à prorrogação do Acôrdo Básico, tal como foi emendado, destinado à execução de um programa de cooperação sobre educação industrial-vocacional no Brasil, firmado no Rio de Janeiro , a 3 de janeiro de 1946 , entre o Ministério da Educação e Saúde do Govêrno dos Estados Unidos do Brasil e a " Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.", hoje "Education Division" do "Institute of Inter-American Affairs".

2. Informou-me Vossa Excelência , na referida nota, de que o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, considerando os benefícios mútuos auferidos com o programa de cooperação sobre educação industrialvocacional, cujo prazo terminou, nos têrmos do Acôrdo Básico de 3 de janeiro de 1946 , a 30 de junho último, concordava com o Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil quanto à conveniência de sua prorrogação .

3. Comunicou-me, assim, Vossa Excelência, que o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América considerava que um ajuste poderia ser feito, a fim de que o " Institute of Inter-American Affairs" , para o qual

1 Oct. 30, 1948.

2864

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
foram transferidos os bens e funções da "Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc.", continuasse sua participação no programa de cooperação mencionado , por um período de mais um ano, ou seja de 30 de junho de 1948 a 30 de junho de 1949 , com a formalidade, entretanto , de que um acordo , para a prorrogação do programa de cooperação, fôsse assinado , na devida forma , pelos representantes autorizados dos dois Governos , até a data de 30 de setembro último .
4. Em virtude, entretanto, do estudo acurado das condições e processos pelos quais se deveria reger a prorrogação do referido programa de cooperação sobre educação industrial-vocacional, objeto do acôrdo em questão , não foi possivel que o mesmo ficasse concluído antes de 30 de setembro último , data fixada na nota de Vossa Excelência. Sugiro, assim, a Vossa Excelência que a data até a qual deva ser concluído o acordo de prorrogação do programa de cooperação sôbre educação industrial-vocacional, entre o Ministério da Educação e Saúde do Brasil e o "Institute of Inter-American Affairs ", seja estendida até 31 de outubro corrente.
5. No acordo de prorrogação ficará estipulado que, durante o período de prorrogação do programa mencionado , ou seja, de 30 de junho de 1948 a 30 de junho de 1949 , o "Institute of Inter-American Affairs" contribuirá com U.S. $ 100,000,00 (cem mil dólares) , moeda corrente, para crédito da Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação Industrial, soma essa destinada à execução das atividades projetadas no programa, devendo o Govêrno dos Estados Unidos do Brasil contribuir para a mesma organização e para os mesmos fins, com a importância de Cr$ 7.000.000,00 (sete milhões de cruzeiros) . 6. O "Institute of Inter-American Affairs" comprometer-se-à ainda a dispor, durante a mesma prorrogação , de uma soma que não excederá de U.S. $ 125,000,00 (cento e vinte e cinco mil dólares ) , moeda corrente, destinada ao pagamento de salários e outras despesas dos membros do Corpo técnico e administrativo de sua "Education Division" no Brasil, soma essa que não será depositada a crédito da referida Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação Industrial e permanecerá na posse do "Institute". As quantias mencionadas serão em acréscimo às somas já exigidas no Acôrdo Básico , como contribuição das partes e destinadas à execução de seu programa.
7. A fim de que o trabalho de cooperação da Comissão BrasileiroAmericana de Educação Industrial não sofra solução de continuidade enquanto não fôr assinado o acordo regular para a prorrogação do programa de cooperação educacional, o corpo de especialistas em educação vocacional do " Institute ofInter-American Affairs" permanecerá no Brasil o tempo necessário para se chegar a um ajuste sôbre os pormenores técnicos do acôrdo de prorrogação . Nenhuma soma, entretanto , será depositada a crédito da Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação Industrial, até que o mencionado acôrdo de prorrogação do programa de cooperação sobre educação industrial-vocacional seja assinado pelos representantes autorizados dos dois Governos. 8. O Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil tem ciência tambem de que o Representante Especial do "Institute of Inter-American Affairs"

63 STAT. ] BRAZIL VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION-- July 23, Oct. 21, 27, 1948 2865 Aug. 23, Sept. 29, 1949
foi autorizado a fazer um acôrdo por escrito com o Superintendente da Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação Industrial, com o fim de determinar o emprego das somas restantes e ainda não gastas pela Comissão, por ocasião da terminação da vigência, a 30 de junho último , do Acôrdo Básico, destinando-as, tão sómente , ao financiamento de projetos já iniciados pela Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação Industrial, e isso enquanto não se assinar, em forma regular, o acordo de prorrogação , o que se deveria fazer, nos termos da nota de Vossa Excelência , até 30 de setembro último , ou nessa data. 9. O Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil estenderá o seu reconhecimento ao "Institute of Inter-American Affairs", da mesma forma pela qual o fazia com relação à "Inter-American Educantional Foundation, Inc. " , nos termos da Cláusula XVIII do Acôrdo Básico, e concederá ao "Institute" e aos seus servidores no Brasil , desde que sejam cidadãos dos Estados Unidos da América , as mesmas isenções e imunidades de que gozavam a " Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc." e seus servidores no Brasil, nos termos da cláusula citada do mesmo Acôrdo Básico .
10. Levo , assim, ao conhecimento de Vossa Excelência que , nos termos acima expressos , e no caso em que o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América concorde com a extensão , para 31 de outubro corrente , da data até a qual deverá ser concluído , na devida forma, o acordo de prorrogação do programa de educação industrial-vocacional , a nota de Vossa Excelência, datada de 23 de julho último , a que a princípio me reporto , esta nota e a nota em que Vossa Excelência me comunique a concordância do Govêrno americano , no tocante à extensão da data até a qual se deverá concluir o mencionado acôrdo de prorrogação , constituirão acordo entre os dois Governos , sôbre êsse assunto, o qual entrará em vigor na data da assinatura, pelo Senhor Ministro de Estado da Educação e Saúde do Brasil e pelo Representante Especial do "Institute of Inter-American Affairs " , do acôrdo de prorrogação , com os pormenores técnicos acima mencionados .
Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
HILDEBRANDO ACCIOLY
A Sua Excelência o Senhor HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON, Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América .

Translation

DAI/136/542.2 (22) MR. AMBASSADOR,

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, RIO DE JANEIRO. October 21 , 1948.

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of note No. 193, of July 23 , 1948 , in which Your Excellency refers to the extension of

the Basic Agreement , as amended, for the execution of a cooperative program of vocational education in Brazil, signed in Rio de Janeiro,

Ante, p. 2861.

2866 60 Stat. 1768. 60 Stat. 1768.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
on January 3 , 1946 , between the Ministry of Education and Health of the Government of the United States of Brazil and the InterAmerican Educational Foundation, Inc. , now the Education Division of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
2. In the said note, Your Excellency informed me that , considering the mutual benefits derived from the cooperative program of vocational education, the period of which, under the terms of the Basic Agreement of January 3, 1946 , terminated on June 30 , 1948 , the Government of the United States of America agrees with the Government of the United States of Brazil as to the desirability of its extension .
3. Your Excellency likewise informed me that the Government of the United States of America has considered that arrangements
might be made for the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, to which the property and functions of the Inter-American Educational
Foundation, Inc. , have been transferred , to continue its participation in the said cooperative program for one year more, or from June 30, 1948 , through June 30 , 1949 , upon the condition , however, that a formal agreement for extension of the cooperative program is signed by authorized representatives of our two Governments not later than September 30, 1948.
4. However, by virtue of a careful study of the conditions and procedures to govern extension of the said cooperative program of vocational education forming the subject of the agreement in question, it was not possible for it to be concluded before September 30 , 1948 , the date set in Your Excellency's note. I therefore suggest to Your Excellency that the date on or before which the agreement for extension of the cooperative program of vocational education must be concluded between the Ministry of Education and Health of Brazil and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , be extended to October 31 , 1948.
5. It shall be stipulated in the extension agreement that , during the period of the extension of the afore-mentioned program, that is , from June 30 , 1948 , to June 30 , 1949 , the Institute of Inter-American Affairs will contribute $ 100,000.00 (one hundred thousand dollars) U.S. Cy. to the credit of the Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial, for use in carrying out project activities of the program, the Government of the United States of Brazil being obligated to contribute to the same organization for the same purpose the sum of Cr$7,000,000.00 (seven million cruzeiros) .
6. The Institute of Inter-American Affairs will also agree to make available, during the same extension period, an amount not exceeding $ 125,000.00 (one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars) U. S. Cy., for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of its Education Division Field Staff in Brazil, which sum is not to be deposited to the account of the said Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial and is to be retained by the Institute . The amounts referred to shall be in addition to the sums already required under the Basic Agreement to be contributed by the parties in furtherance of the program.

63 STAT. ] BRAZIL- VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION- JuAluyg.232,3O, cSte.pt2.1 2, 92,71, 9149948 2867

7. To the end that the cooperative work of the Comissão BrasileiraAmericana de Educação Industrial shall suffer no break in continuity pending the signing of the formal agreement to extend the cooperative education program , the staff of specialists in vocational education of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs will remain in Brazil for the time necessary to reach an agreement on the technical details of the extension agreement . However, no funds will be deposited to the account of the Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial until the afore-mentioned agreement for extension of the cooperative education program is signed by authorized representatives of our two Governments .
8. The Government of the United States of Brazil is also aware that the Special Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs has been authorized to enter into a written agreement with the Superintendent of the Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial to provide for the use of the funds remaining unexpended by the Comissão at the time of termination of the Basic Agreement on June 30, 1948 , devoting them solely to the financing of projects already started by the Comissão Brasileira-Americana de Educação Industrial, pending the formal signature of the extension agreement, which should be done, under the terms of Your Excellency's note, on or before September 30 , 1948.
9. The Government of the United States of Brazil will extend its recognition to the Institute of Inter-American Affairs as it did to the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc., under the terms of Clause XVIII of the Basic Agreement, and will extend to the Institute and to its personnel in Brazil, provided they are citizens of the United States of America, the same exemptions and immunities enjoyed in Brazil by the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , and its personnel, pursuant to the said clause of the Basic Agreement .
10. I thus inform Your Excellency that under the terms set forth above, should the Government of the United States of America agree to extend to October 31 , 1948 the date on or before which the agreement for extension of the cooperative program of vocational education must be formally concluded , Your Excellency's note , dated July 23 , 1948 , to which I refer at the beginning, this note and the note in which Your Excellency may inform me of the agreement of the United States Government to extend the date on or before which the said extension agreement must be concluded, will , with respect to this matter, constitute an agreement between our two Governments , which shall come into force on the date of the signature, by the Minister of Education and Health of Brazil and the Special Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , of the extension agreement embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
HILDEBRANDO ACCIOLY His Excellency
HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON,
Ambassador of the United States of America .

60 Stat. 1773. Ante, p. 2861.

2868

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

The American Ambassador to the Brazilian Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 283 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Rio de Janeiro, October 27, 1948.

Ante, p. 2863.

I have the honor to acknowledge Your Excellency's note DAI/136/ 543.2 (22 ) [ ¹ ] of October 21 , 1948 , relative to the cooperative program of vocational education in Brazil and to express the concurrence of my

Government with Your Excellency's suggestion that the period for the signing of a formal agreement, for the extension of the program by the Minister of Education and Health of Brazil and the Special Represent-

ative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, be extended from September 30 to October 31 , 1948 in view of the circumstances that have made it impossible for Brazil to conclude by September 30 , 1948 a study of the terms and procedures to govern said extension .
This note, Your Excellency's note of October 21 , 1948 and my Ante, pp. 2863, 2861. note of July 23 , 1948 , therefore, will be considered as constituting an

agreement between our two Governments with respect to the extension of the cooperative program of vocational education and will come into force on the date of the signature of an agreement by the Minister of Education and Health of Brazil and the Special Representative of

The Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the technical details of the program, providing the latter is concluded not later than October 31 , 1948.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON.

His Excellency Ambassador HILDEBRANDO P. P. ACCIOLY,

Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rio de Janeiro.

1 Should read 542.2 (22) .

63 STAT. ] BRAZIL-VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION- JuAluyg.23, Oct. 21 , 27,1 23, Sept. 29, 1994498 2869

EXTENSION AGREEMENT OF THE AGREEMENT SIGNED IN RIO DE JANEIRO, ON JANUARY 3, 1946 BY THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND HEALTH OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF BRAZIL AND THE INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC., ON VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION.

The Ministry of Education and Health (hereinafter referred to as the "Ministry") of the Government of the United States of Brazil (hereinafter referred to as the "Government") , represented by Dr. Clemente Mariani Bittencourt , the Minister of Education and Health (hereinafter referred to as the "Minister") , and the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the " Institute") , a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America and successor to the Inter-American Educational Founda-

tion, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the " Foundation" ) , represented by its Special Representative, Education Division , Mr. George S. Sanders (hereinafter referred to as the " Special Representative" ) ,
have agreed, in accordance with the exchange of Notes dated July 23, 1948 , and October 21 and 27 , 1948, between the American Ambassador and the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon the 286A8n.te, pp. 2861, 2863,

following technical details for extending and modifying the Agreement executed by the Ministry and the Foundation on January 3 , 1946 , as amended by Special Resolution signed by the parties on August 26 , 1946 (hereinafter referred to as the "Basic Agreement" ) , providing for a cooperative education program to be carried on in Brazil:

60 Stat. 1768.

CLAUSE I

The cooperative education program provided for in the Basic Agreement is hereby extended for an additional period of one year from June 30, 1948 , through June 30 , 1949.

Period of extension.

CLAUSE II

In addition to the funds required by the Basic Agreement to be contributed or otherwise made available by the parties thereto with respect to the cooperative education program, which funds heretofore have been contributed or otherwise made available , the parties hereto shall contribute and make available funds for use in continuing the cooperative education program during the period covered by this Extension Agreement, in accordance with the following schedule :
1. The Institute shall make available the funds necessary to pay the salaries and all other expenses of its Education Division field staff in Brazil during the period covered by this Agreement, provided that the amount of such funds shall not exceed US$ 125,000.00 . This amount

Funds.

2870

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

shall be administered by the Institute and shall not be deposited to
the credit of the Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação Industrial (hereinafter referred to as the "CBAI" ) . CBAI Bank Account.
2. The Institute shall deposit in the CBAI special bank account (hereinafter referred to as the "CBAI Bank Account" ) , in the Banco
do Brasil, the sum of US$ 100,000.00 or its equivalent in cruzeiros ,
(which, at the exchange rate of Cr$ 18,50 to $ 1.00 equals Cr$ 1.850.000,00) , as follows :

Within 15 days after the registration of the Brazilian appropriation
On or before January 31 , 1949

US$ 50, 000. 00 US$ 50, 000. 00

Total ·

US$100, 000. 00

3. The Government, in addition to its regular budget for industrial education, shall deposit in the CBAI bank account the sum of Cr$ 7,000,000,00 (which, at the exchange rate of Cr$ 18,50 to $ 1.00 equals US$378.378,38) , as follows:

Within 15 days after the registration of the Bra-

zilian appropriation .

CR$3.000.000,00

On or before January 31 , 1949 .

CR$4.000.000,00

Total

CR$7.000.000,00

4. The funds to be deposited by the Institute under sub-paragraph 2 of this Clause II shall be available for the payment of CBAI expenses

incurred on and after July 1 , 1948, but all funds required to be deposited within 15 days after the registration of the Brazilian appropriation, by either party shall not be available for withdrawal or expenditure until all deposits due and payable from the other party have been made.
CLAUSE III

Amendment of schedules for deposit, The parties hereto , by written agreement of the Superintendent of etc.
the CBAI and the Special Representative , may amend the schedules

for making the deposits required by Clause II hereof, may provide for

advance purchase of equipment or materials by either party with

appropriate credit against the payments due under the schedules ,

and may provide for contributions of funds by either or both parties ,

or by third parties, for use in effectuating the cooperative education

60 Stat. 1765.

program in addition to the funds required to be contributed by this Extension Agreement and the Basic Agreement.

CLAUSE IV

Force and effect of

Basic Agreement.

The Basic Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the

purpose of extending the cooperative education program , as provided

herein, and all provisions of the Basic Agreement shall be applicable

to all operations and activities under this Extension Agreement to

the same extent and with the same effect as though expressly set forth

herein ; EXCEPT that the Basic Agreement, in its application to the

period provided for in this Extension Agreement, is hereby amended

July 23, Oct. 21, 27, 1948 2871 63 STAT. ] BRAZIL- VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION-- Aug. 23, Sept. 29 , 1949

and supplemented by the provisions of this Extension Agreement , including the following particulars :

1. Any unobligated balance of funds remaining to the credit of CBAI at the close of June 30 , 1948 shall be available for expenditure during the period covered by this Extension Agreement .
2. Clause II of the Basic Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows :
"The methods of carrying out the said cooperative education program will include such procedures as :

60 Stat. 1768. Methods .

a) The furnishing by the Institute of a field staff of specialists in industrial education to collaborate in the planning, organizing , and conducting of the cooperative education program .
b) In cooperation with various Brazilian authorities :

(1 ) The making of studies and surveys relative to the education requirements of Brazil in the field of industrial education and the formation and conduct of a program to meet these needs.
(2) The organization , development, and conduct of training in Brazil for teachers and administrators of industrial education, including pre-employment training and in-service training of teachers, coordinators, counselors , supervisors and directors.

(3) The planning, organizing, and putting into operation of an effective vocational guidance program .
(4) Providing for the training in the United States of selected Brazilian personnel.
(5) Purchase of materials and equipment for industrial schools and teacher training programs.
(6) Use of such other methods and means as may be mutually agreed upon and appropriate for the realization of this cooperative education program ."
3. The parties hereto agree that any funds of the CBAI which remain unexpended on the termination of this Extension Agreement shall, unless otherwise agreed upon in writing by the parties hereto at that time, be returned to the parties hereto in the proportion of the respective contributions made by the parties under the Basic Agreement and under Clause II of this Extension Agreement.
4. Clause XV of the Basic Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows :

Unexpended funds.
Ante, p. 2869. 60 Stat. 1772.

"a .

The Superintendent of the CBAI and the Special Represent-

Withholding of funds from CBAI Bank

ative may agree to withhold in the United States of America, Account.

from the payments to be made by the Institute into the

CBAI Bank Account, the amounts considered to be necessary

for the program, for the liquidation of obligations payable outside of Brazil , in United States dollars .

b. Such amounts withheld shall be considered as if deposited under the terms of this Agreement. Any funds withheld by the Institute and not expended or obligated shall be deposited in the CBAI Bank Account at any time upon mutual agree-

2872

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

60 Stat. 1773.

ment of the Superintendent of the CBAI and the Special Representative ."
5. Clause XVI of the Basic Agreement is amended to read as follows :

60 Stat. 1773.

"The parties hereto declare their recognition that the Institute , being a corporate instrumentality of the United States of America, wholly owned, directed , and controlled by the Government of the United States of America, is entitled to share fully in the immunity from suit in the courts of Brazil which is enjoyed by the United States of America."
6. Clause XVII of the Basic Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows :

Tax exemption of

funds, etc.

"Any of the funds introduced into Brazil by the Institute for the

purpose of the cooperative education program shall be exempt from

taxes , service charges , investment or deposit requirements, and other currency controls, and shall be converted into cruzeiros at the then

current rate of exchange but in any event at a rate of exchange not less than Cr$ 18,50 per dollar . Similarly, where it may be necessary or advisable to convert cruzeiros into dollars for the financing of grants or for other expenditures in the United States of America, the conversion of cruzeiros into dollars shall be made at the then

60 Stat. 1773.

current rate of exchange but in any event at a rate of exchange not less than Cr$ 18,50 per dollar. "
7. Clause XVIII of the Basic Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:

Rights and privileges of Institute.

"a. All rights and privileges which are enjoyed by governmental and similar official divisions of the Government and by the personnel and employees of the same shall accrue to the

Institute and to all its personnel and employees . Such rights and privileges shall include , but not by way of limitation , free postal, telegraph, and telephone service whenever possible, passes on railroads administered by the Government

and the right to rebates or preferential tariffs allowed to departments of the Government by domestic companies of maritime and river navigation, air travel, telegraph, telephone, etc., and also freedom and immunity from excise, stamp , consular charges, property, and any or all other taxes . The Institute shall be exempted from all imposts , taxes and emoluments .

b. All employees of the Institute engaged in carrying out the objectives of the cooperative education program shall be exempt from all Brazilian income taxes and social security taxes with respect to income on which they are obliged to pay income or social security taxes to the Government of the United States of America and from property taxes on personal property intended for their own use. Said employees shall also be exempt from the payment of customs and import duties on personal effects and equipment and supplies

63 STAT. ] BRAZIL-VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION- July 23, Oct. 21, 27, 1948 2873 Aug. 23, Sept. 29, 1949

imported for their own use or for the personal use of the members of their families."

Funds for additional 8. By mutual agreement between the Superintendent of the CBAI personnel.

and the Special Representative, funds of the CBAI may be used to

reimburse or defray the salaries , living expenses , travel and trans-

portation costs , and other expenses of such additional personnel of the

Education Division of the Institute in Brazil as the parties mentioned may agree are necessary to be employed , in addition to the employees referred to under Clause II hereof. Such funds may be contributed or

Ante, p. 2869.

granted for such purposes by the CBAI to the Institute or to any other organization, but in every case the Superintendent of the CBAI and

the Special Representative will enter into a written project agreement

setting forth the scope and the other necessary terms of such contributions or grants.
9. All references in the Basic Agreement to the Inter-American

60 Stat. 1765.

Educational Foundation, Inc. shall, for the purposes of this Extension Agreement, be deemed to refer to the Institute.

CLAUSE V

The Ministry undertakes to obtain or promulgate such legislation, decrees, orders , or resolutions as may be necessary to effectuate the terms of this Extension Agreement.

Legislation.

CLAUSE VI
This Extension Agreement shall become effective on the date that registration is made by the Tribunal de Contas of Brazil . [' ]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives , in quintuplicate, in the Portuguese and English languages , in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil , this 30th day of October, 1948.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND HEALTH CLEMENTE MARIANI

Effective date.

Dr. Clemente Mariani Bittencourt Minister of State

THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS GEORGE S. SANDERS

Mr. George S. Sanders Special Representative, Education Division

1 Oct. 4, 1949.

2874

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

ACÔRDO DE PRORROGAÇÃO DO ACÔRDO FIRMADO NO RIO DE JANEIRO, A 3 DE JANEIRO DE 1946, ENTRE O MINISTÉRIO DA EDUCAÇÃO E SAÚDE DO GOVÊRNO DOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DO BRASIL E A INTER-AMERICAN EDU. CATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC., SÔBRE EDUCAÇÃO INDUS . TRIAL -VOCACIONAL .
O Ministério da Educação e Saúde (doravante chamado "Ministério") do Govêrno dos Estados Unidos do Brasil (doravante chamado "Govêrno"), representado pelo Dr. Clemente Mariani Bittencourt, Ministro da Educação e Saúde (doravante chamado "Ministro"), e The Institute of Inter-American Affairs (doravante chamado "Instituto " ) , repartição corporativa do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América e sucessor da Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. (doravante chamada "Fundação " ) , representado pelo Representante Especial de sua Education Division, Sr. George S. Sanders, (doravante chamado "Representante Especial" ) , concordaram , na conformidade da troca de Notas datadas de 23 de Julho de 1948 e de 21 e 27 de Outubro de 1948 , entre o Embaixador Americano e o Ministro Brasileiro das Relações Exteriores , nos seguintes pormenores técnicos , para a prorrogação e a modificação do Acôrdo celebrado pelo Ministério e a Fundação em 3 de Janeiro de 1946 e executado na forma da emenda feita pela Resolução Especial assinada pelas partes contratantes em 26 de Agosto de 1946 (doravante chamado "Acôrdo Básico" ) , para a promoção de um programa de cooperação educacional a ser realizado no Brasil :
CLÁUSULA I
O programa de cooperação educacional promovido pelo Acôrdo Básico é prorrogado, por meio dêste, pelo período adicional de um ano, a contar de 30 de Junho de 1948 , até 30 de Junho de 1949 .
CLÁUSULA II
Além dos fundos referidos no Acôrdo Básico a serem depositados ou mobilizados por outra forma, pelas partes contratantes , relativamente ao programa de cooperação educacional, fundos êstes já depositados ou disponíveis , as partes contratantes depositarão e porão à disposição fundos para a continuação do programa de cooperação educacional durante o período abrangido por êste Acôrdo de Prorrogação , na conformidade do seguinte esquema :
1. O Instituto porá à disposição os fundos necessários ao pagamento dos salários e outras despesas do corpo técnico e administrativo de sua Education Division no Brasil , durante o período dêste Acôrdo de Prorrogação , desde que o total dêstes fundos não exceda de US$ 125,000.00 . Esta importância será administrada pelo Instituto e

63 STAT. ] BRAZIL- VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION- July 23, Oct. 21, 27, 1948 2875 Aug. 23, Sept. 29, 1949

não será depositada a crédito da Comissão Brasileiro-Americana de Educação Industrial (doravante chamada "CBAI" ) .
2. O Instituto depositará na conta bancária especial da CBAI (doravante chamada "Conta Bancária da CBAI" ) , no Banco do Brasil , a soma de US$ 100,000.00 ou seu equivalente em cruzeiros (a qual, à taxa de câmbio de Cr$ 18,50 por dólar, é igual a Cr$ 1.850.000,00 ) , da forma seguinte :

Dentro dos 15 dias seguintes ao registo do crédito

brasileiro

US$ 50,000.00

Até 31 de Janeiro de 1949

US$ 50,000.00

Total ·

US$ 100,000.00

3. O Governo, além do seu orçamento regular para educação industrial, depositará na conta bancária da CBAI a soma de

Cr$ 7.000.000,00 (a qual, à taxa de câmbio de Cr$ 18,50 por dólar, é

igual a US$ 378,378.38 ) , da forma seguinte:

Dentro dos 15 dias seguintes ao registo do

crédito brasileiro

CR$3.000. 000, 00

Até 31 de Janeiro de 1949

CR$4.000. 000, 00

Total ·

CR$7. 000. 000, 00

4. Os fundos a serem depositados pelo Instituto , na forma do número 2 dêsta Cláusula II , estarão disponíveis para o pagamento das despesas da CBAI, empenhadas em 1º de Julho de 1948 , ou depois , mas todos os fundos a serem depositados dentro dos 15 dias seguintes ao registo do crédito brasileiro , por qualquer das partes, não estarão disponíveis para retirada ou despesas até que todos os depósitos , devidos e pagáveis pela outra parte, tenham sido feitos .
CLÁUSULA III
As partes contratantes, mediante acôrdo escrito entre o Superintendente da CBAI e o Representante Especial, podem modificar os esquemas para pagamento dos depósitos, estabelecidos na Cláusula II dêste, podem providenciar compras antecipadas de equipamento ou materiais, por qualquer das partes, com crédito apropriado contra os pagamentos devidos, na forma dos esquemas respectivos , e podem determinar a contribuição de fundos, por qualquer das partes ou ambas, ou por terceiros, para uso na efetivação do programa de cooperação educacional, além dos fundos cuja contribuição é exigida por êste Acôrdo de Prorrogação e pelo Acôrdo Básico .
CLÁUSULA IV
O Acôrdo Básico continuará em vigência e terá plena força para o propósito de prorrogar o programa de cooperação educacional, como nêste está estabelecido, e todas as determinações do Acôrdo Básico serão aplicáveis a todas as operações e atividades dêste Acôrdo de Prorrogação , na mesma extensão e com o mesmo efeito como se isto estivesse expressamente estabelecido aqui ; entretanto , o Acôrdo

2876

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
Básico, na sua aplicação ao período abrangido por êste Acôrdo de Prorrogação, é emendado e acrescido nos termos dêste Acôrdo de Prorrogação, inclusive nos seguintes pontos :
1. Qualquer saldo de fundos não comprometidos e que esteja a crédito da CBAI, na data de 30 de Junho de 1948 , será aplicável a despesas realizadas durante o período abrangido por êste Acôrdo de Prorrogação .
2. A Cláusula II do Acôrdo Básico é por êste emendada , da forma seguinte :
"Para ser levado a efeito, o mencionado programa de cooperação educacional incluirá normas tais como :
a) O fornecimento , pelo Instituto , de um corpo técnico de especialistas em ensino industrial, para colaborar no planejamento , organização e direção do programa de cooperação educacional-
b) Em cooperação com as diversas autoridades brasileiras :
(1 ) A realização de estudos e levantamentos relativos às necessidades educacionais do Brasil no campo da educação industrial e à formação e direção de um programa para atender a estas necessidades.
(2 ) A organização , desenvolvimento e direção de treinamento , no Brasil , de professores e administradores de ensino industrial, incluindo formação e aperfeiçoamento de professores , coordenadores , orientadores educacionais , supervisores e diretores .
(3) O planejamento , organização e realização de um programa eficiente de orientação vocacional .
(4) A realização de treinamento nos Estados Unidos do pessoal brasileiro que for escolhido .
(5) A compra de materiais e equipamento para escolas de ensino industrial e para programas de treinamento de professores .
(6) Uso de outros métodos e meios que sejam, por entendimento mútuo, considerados adequados à realização dêste programa de cooperação educacional."
3. As partes contratantes concordam em que quaisquer fundos da CBAI, que sobrem por ocasião da terminação dêste Acôrdo de Prorrogação , a não ser que seja deliberado de modo diferente , por escrito, pelas partes contratantes, serão devolvidos a estas, na proporção das respectivas contribuições, na forma do Acôrdo Básico e da Cláusula II dêste Acôrdo de Prorrogação .
4. A Cláusula XV do Acôrdo Básico é por êste emendada, da forma seguinte:
"a. O Superintendente da CBAI e o Representante Especial podem acordar em reter nos Estados Unidos da América , dos pagamentos a serem feitos pelo Instituto à conta bancária da CBAI, as quantias consideradas necessárias ao programa,

July 23, Oct. 21, 27, 1948 2877 63 STAT. ] BRAZIL- VOCATIONAL INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION- Aug. 23, Sept. 29, 1949
para liquidação de obrigações pagáveis fóra do Brasil, em dólares norte-americanos .
b. Tais quantias retidas serão consideradas como se depositadas estivessem nos têrmos dêste Acôrdo . Quaisquer fundos retidos pelo Instituto , não despendidos nem comprometidos , serão depositados na conta bancária da CBAI , em qualquer tempo , mediante acôrdo mútuo entre o Superintendente da CBAI e o Representante Especial . "
5. A Cláusula XVI do Acôrdo Básico é emendada, da forma seguinte :
"As partes contratantes declaram reconhecer que o Instituto , sendo uma repartição corporativa dos Estados Unidos da América, de propriedade integral do Govêrno dos Estados Unidos da América e por êste totalmente dirigida e controlada, está intitulada a participar por inteiro da imunidade de ser processada nos tribunais do Brasil, imunidade que é desfrutada pelo Govêrno dos Estados Unidos da América . "
6. A Cláusula XVII do Acôrdo Básico é por êste emendada, da forma seguinte:
"Quaisquer dos fundos trazidos ao Brasil pelo Instituto, com o objetivo de aplicá-los no programa de cooperação educacional , serão isentos de taxas, comissões, exigências para inversões ou depósitos e outros contrôles monetários e serão convertidos em cruzeiros à taxa de câmbio então corrente, porém, em qualquer caso , a uma taxa de câmbio não inferior a Cr$ 18,50 por dólar . Semelhantemente, sempre que for necessário ou conveniente converter cruzeiros em dólares, para o financiamento de concessões ou para outras despesas nos Estados Unidos da América, a conversão de cruzeiros em dólares será feita à taxa de câmbio então corrente, porém, em qualquer caso , a uma taxa de câmbio não inferior a Cr $ 18,50 por dólar."
7. A Cláusula XVIII do Acôrdo Básico é por êste emendada, da seguinte forma:
"a. Todos os direitos e privilégios que são desfrutados pelas repartições oficiais, governamentais e semelhantes , do Governo , e pelo pessoal e empregados respectivos , serão outorgados ao Instituto e a todo seu pessoal e empregados . Tais direitos e privilégios incluirão , mas não exclusivamente , serviço postal , telegráfico e telefônico gratuitos , sempre que possível , passe nas estradas de ferro administradas pelo Governo, e o direito aos abatimentos ou tarifas preferenciais concedidas aos departamentos do Governo pelas companhias locais de navegação marítima e fluvial, aviação , telégrafo , telefones etc. e também isenção e imunidade de impostos de consumo , selo, propriedade , taxas consulares , e todo e qualquer outro imposto ou taxa. O Instituto ficará isento de todos os impostos, taxas e emolumentos .
b. Todos os empregados do Instituto , utilizados na promoção dos objetivos do programa de cooperação educacional , ficarão isentos de todos impostos de renda e previdência social brasi-

2878

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
leiros, no que se refere à renda sôbre a qual são obrigados a pagar imposto de renda ou de previdência social ao Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, e de impostos sôbre propriedades móveis , destinadas ao seu próprio uso . Tais empregados ficarão também isentos do pagamento de direitos alfandegários e de importação sôbre bens , equipamento e suprimentos importados para seu próprio uso ou para uso pessoal dos membros de suas famílias ."
8. Por acôrdo mútuo entre o Superintendente da CBAI e o Representante Especial, os fundos da CBAI podem ser utilizados para reembolsar ou custear os salários , despesas de manutenção , de viagem e de transporte e outras despesas do pessoal adicional da Education Division do Instituto no Brasil, que as partes mencionadas tenham concordado ser necessário empregar além dos empregados referidos na Cláusula II dêste. Tais fundos podem ser pagos ou concedidos para êsses fins, pela CBAI, ao Instituto ou a qualquer organização , mas em todos os casos o Superintendente da CBAI e o Representante Especial firmarão um acordo escrito , estabelecendo o escopo e os outros termos de tais contribuições ou concessões.
9. Todas as referências à Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc., constantes do Acôrdo Básico , serão consideradas , para os fins dêste Acôrdo de Prorrogação , como feitas ao Instituto .
CLÁUSULA V
O Ministério toma a si a obtenção ou promulgação das leis , decretos, ordens ou resoluções que sejam necessários para cumprimento dos têrmos dêste Acordo de Prorrogação.
CLÁUSULA VI
Este Acordo de Prorrogação entrará em vigor na data em que for registado pelo Tribunal de Contas do Brasil.
Em fé do que, as partes contratantes , prepararam êste Acôrdo de Prorrogação para ser assinado , em quintuplicata , nas línguas portuguêsa e inglêsa, na cidade do Rio de Janeiro, Brasil, aos 30 dias de Outubro de 1948.
MINISTÉRIO DA EDUCAÇÃO E SAÚDE CLEMENTE MARIANI
Dr. Clemente Mariani Bittencourt Ministro de Estado
THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS GEORGE S. SANDERS
Sr. George S. Sanders Representante Especial, Education Division

63 STAT. ]

Aug. 26, 1949 PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Sept. 1, 1949

2879

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru further extending and modifying the agreement of April 4 , 1944 , respecting a cooperative educational program in Peru. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima August 26 and September 1 , 1949; entered into force September 1 , 1949, operative retroactively July 1 , 1949 .

August 26 and September 1, 1949
[T. I. A. S. 2117]

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 590

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Lima, Perú, August 26, 1949.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Gov-

ernment of Perú and the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc., dated April 4, 1944 , as later modified and extended , providing for the initiation and execution of the cooperative educational

61 p. 3871; 62 Stat. , Pt.3, p. 3866.

program in Perú. I also refer to Your Excellency's note of June 9,

1949 , [ ¹ ] submitting a proposed basis for an extension of that Agree-

ment, and to Your Excellency's note of August 9, 1949 , [ 1 ] in which

it was indicated that the draft of Agreement proposed by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs did not wholly agree with the expectations

of the Minister of Education , together with a copy of a new note which

the Minister had presented to the Special Representative.

The proposal of the Minister of Education was submitted to the

consideration of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. In reply, I

regret to inform Your Excellency that, due to budgetary limita-

tions, the Institute states that it is unable at this time to increase the

proposed contribution for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1950 . I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the

assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

HAROLD H. TITTMANN

His Excellency, Capitán de Navío don ERNESTO RODRÍGUEZ , Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

¹ Not printed.

81939-52- PT. III- -37

2880

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

N°: (D ) -6-3/68 SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

MINISTERIO DE
RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO
LIMA, 1º de setiembre de 1949

Tengo a honra referirme a las notas de esta Cancillería Nos. 6-3/44 y 6-3/60, de 9 de julio [ ¹ ] y 9 de agosto ultimos, respectivamente, por las que se llevaba a conocimiento de Vuestra Excelencia los puntos de vista que el Ministerio de Educación Pública deseaba ver acogidos en el nuevo Convenio de prórroga del Programa Cooperativo de Educación.
El Ministro de Educación Pública ha dirigido al señor Lyle B. Pember, Director del Servicio Cooperativo Peruano-Norteamericano de Educación, una comunicación, cuya copia me es grato adjuntar a Vuestra Excelencia, manifestandole el acuerdo de su Despacho con las bases propuestas, para la prórroga de dicho Convenio, por el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos.

Aprovecho la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
E RODRÍGUEZ
Al Excelentísimo Señor HAROLD H. TITTMANN

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad.-

[ Enclosure]
MINISTERIO DE
RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

Ministerio de Educación Pública.

Señor LYLE B. PEMBER,

LIMA, 1º de setiembre de 1949.

Director Del Servicio Cooperativo Peruano-Norteamericano de Educaciön.

Of. No 1226.

Me es grato dar respuesta a su atenta nota N° .P-4305 del 26 de Agosto, con la que me comunica, de conformidad con la información que ha recibido del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , que será imposible aumentar la asignación de fondos para proyectos cooperativos señalada en el proyecto de prórroga del Convenio que sometió usted a mi consideración en julio pasado.

Deploro vivamente que por las consideraciones que me expone de haberse hecho ya la distribución de los recursos para los Programas

Cooperativos en América Latina, no sea factible incrementar por ahora la cantidad de U. S. $ 50,000.00 fijada por el Instituto de Asun. tos Interamericanos para nuestro Programa Cooperativo durante el

1 Should read "Junio."

63 STAT.]

Aug. 26, 1949 PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Sept. 1, 1949

período del 1º de Julio de 1949 al 30 de Junio de 1950. Abrigo la fundada esperanza que en conocimiento de nuestra realidad educacional y de la necesidad de intensificar debidamente la etapa de los impulsos que vamos a iniciar en nuestro Programa Cooperativo , se considere suma mayor para el Programa a largo plazo que comenzaría el 1º de Julio de 1950 y que es actualmente materia de estudio.
De acuerdo con las posibilidades actuales y confirmando las conversaciones que sobre el particular hemos tenido, mi Despacho halla conforme el proyecto para la prórroga del Convenio que se ha servido usted presentarme, en virtud del cual el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-
americanos contribuirá con la suma de U. S. $ 50,000.00 y el Gobierno del Perú con la suma de S/.1'956,836.35 , por el período del 1° de Julio de 1949 al 30 de Junio de 1950, para la prosecución del Programa, a mas de la cantidad de U. S. $ 129,000.00 que el Instituto aportará para gastos de personal y de los fondos que como en años anteriores el Gobierno del Perú dedicará como aportes indirectos.
Al perticipar a usted la decisión del Gobierno del Perú de continuar con el Programa Cooperativo que felizmente vincula a nuestros dos países en el amplio campo educacional, me complace renovarle las seguridades de mi muy distinguida consideración.

Dios guarde a usted.

Fdo.

Coronel JUAN MENDOZA R. Ministro de Educacion Publica.

Translation

No. (D) 6-3/68

LIMA, September 1, 1949.

MR. AMBASSADOR : I have the honor to refer to this Ministry's notes Nos. 6-3/44 and
6/3/60, of July [ ¹ ] 9 and August 9 last, respectively, in which Your Excellency was informed of the points of view which the Ministry of Public Education wished to see incorporated in the new Agreement on the extension of the Cooperative Education Program.
The Minister of Public Education has addressed to Mr. Lyle B. Pember, Director of the Servicio Cooperativo Peruano-Norteamericano de Educación, a letter, copy of which I attach herewith, setting forth his Ministry's agreement to the bases proposed by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for the extension of the said Agreement.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

E RODRÍGUEZ

His Excellency HAROLD H. TITTMANN Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City. -
' Should read "June."

2881

2882

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
[Enclosure ]
MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP
Ministry of Public Education
LIMA, September 1, 1949. Mr. LYLE B. PEMBER, Director, Servicio Cooperativo Peruano-Norteamericano de Educación. Communication No. 1226.
I take pleasure in replying to your courteous note No. P-4305 of August 26, in which you inform me that, pursuant to information which you have received from the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, it will be impossible to increase the allocation of funds for the cooperative projects indicated in the draft Extension Agreement which you submitted to my consideration last July.
I keenly regret that, because of the fact which you explain, the funds for the Cooperative Programs in Latin America have already been distributed, it will not be possible to increase for the present the sum of $50,000 ( U. S. cy. ) fixed by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for our Cooperative Program during the period from July 1, 1949 to June 30, 1950. I entertain the well-grounded hope that in the knowledge of our educational realities and of the need duly to intensify the impulses that we are going to initiate in our Cooperative Program, a greater sum will be considered for the long-term Program which would start on July 1, 1950 and which is now under study.
In accordance with present possibilities and confirming the conversations that we have had on the subject, my Ministry is agreeable to the extension Agreement which you have submitted to me, under which the Institute of Inter- American Affairs will contribute the sum of $50,000.00 (U. S. cy. ) and the Government of Peru the sum of S/.1'956,836.35, for the period from July 1, 1949 to June 30 , 1950 , for the continuation of the Program, in addition to the amount of $ 129,000.00 ( U. S. cy. ) which the Institute will contribute for personnel expenses, and to the funds which, as in previous years, the Government of Peru will make available as indirect contributions.
On informing you of the Peruvian Government's decision to continue the Cooperative Program which happily links our two countries in the broad educational field, I take pleasure in renewing to you the assurances of my most distinguished consideration .
God keep you. Sgd. Colonel JUAN MENDOZA R. Minister of Public Education.

63 STAT.]

SAeupgt.. 26 , 1949

PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-

1, 1949

2883

EXTENSION AGREEMENT

The REPUBLIC OF PERU (hereinafter referred to as the "Republic") represented by Coronel Juan Mendoza R., the Minister of Public Edu-

cation, (hereinafter referred to as the "Minister") , and THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS (hereinafter referred to as the "Institute") , a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United

States of America, represented by its Special Representative, Education Division, Lyle B. Pember, ( hereinafter referred to as the "Special

Representative") , have agreed , pursuant to the request of the Republic ,

and in accordance with the subsequent exchange of notes dated August 26, 1949, and Sept. 1, 1949, between the American Ambassador and the

Ante, pp. 2879, 2880.

Peruvian Minister of Foreign Affairs, upon the following technical

details for extending and modifying, in the manner hereinafter set

forth, the Agreement executed by the Republic and the predecessor of the Institute in April 1944 , as subsequently modified and extended (hereinafter referred to as the "Basic Agreement" ) , providing for a

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 3871; 62 Stat., Pt. 3, p. 3866.

cooperative education program to be carried on in Perú.

CLAUSE I
The cooperative education program provided for in the Basic Agreement is hereby extended for an additional period of one year from June 30, 1949, through June 30, 1950. The parties hereto hereby express their complete satisfaction with the way the Servicio Cooperativo Peruano- Norteamericano de Educación (hereinafter referred to as the "Servicio") has operated since it was established, and their recognition of the effectiveness and efficiency of the services rendered by the Servicio to the education of Perú.

Period of extension.

CLAUSE II
In addition to the funds required by the Basic Agreement and/or extensions thereto to be contributed or otherwise made available by the parties thereto with respect to the cooperative education program, the parties hereto shall contribute and make available funds for use in continuing the program during the period covered by this Extension Agreement in accordance with the following schedule :
1. The Institute shall make available the funds necessary to pay the salaries and all other expenses of its Education Division field staff in Perú during the period covered by this Extension Agreement, provided that the amount of such funds shall not exceed $ 129,000.00. This amount shall be administered by the Institute and shall not be deposited to the credit of the Servicio.
2. The Institute shall deposit to the credit of the Servicio the sum of $50,000.00, or its equivalent in soles, as follows :

Funds. Deposits.

2884

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

On or before August 15, 1949 . A sum of $4,166.67 on or before the 15th day of each suc-
ceeding month to and including June 15, 1950, which monthly payments will aggregate
Total $

8, 333. 30
41, 666. 70 50,000.00

All cash grants made by the Institute to the Servicio will be deposited to the account of the Servicio in the United States in a commercial bank of recognized standing in international trade in order that exchange will always be available in dollars to meet the needs of approved Servicio projects.
3. The Republic shall deposit to the credit of the Servicio, the sum of S/.1'956,836.35, as follows :

On or before September 15 , 1949

S/. 97, 499. 98

A sum of S/.10,833.34 on or before the 15th day of each suc-

ceeding month to and including December 15, 1949, which monthly payments will aggregate · ·

32, 500. 02

On or before January 15, 1950

304, 472.75

A sum of S/.304,472.74 on or before the 15th day of each

succeeding month to and including June 15, 1950, which

monthly payments will aggregate

1'522, 363. 60

Total S/.1'956, 836. 35

4. The funds to be deposited by the Institute under sub- section 2 of this Clause II on Aug. 15, 1949, shall be available for expenditure from the date on which deposited but all payments to be thereafter deposited by either party shall not be avilable for withdrawal or expenditure until the corresponding deposit due from the other party on the same date has been made.
5. The parties hereto, by written agreement of the Minister and the Special Representative, may amend the schedules for making the deposits required by this Clause II.

CLAUSE III

Force and effect of

Basic Agreement.

The Basic Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the

purpose of extending the cooperative education program, as provided

herein, and all provisions of the Basic Agreement shall be applicable

to all operations and activities under this Extension Agreement ; EXCEPT that the Basic Agreement, (including any extensions and

amendments thereto ) in its application to the period provided for in

this Extension Agreement, shall be deemed to be amended and supplemented by the provisions of this Extension Agreement , including the

following particulars : Unobligated funds.
1. The parties hereto agree that any funds which remain in the

Servicio unexpended and unobligated on the termination of the co-

operative education program, shall, as agreed upon in writing by the parties hereto at that time, either be turned over to the Republic to be devoted by it to activities which will further advance the purposes of

63 STAT. ]

PERU- COOPERATIVE

EDUCATION-

Aug. 26, 1949 Sept. 1, 1949

the program, or be returned to the parties hereto in the proportion of the respective contributions made by the parties under the Basic Agreement (including any extensions and amendments thereof) .
2. Sub-section 2 of Clause IV of the Extension Agreement signed by the parties hereto on July 6, 1948 is hereby amended to read as follows :

2885

"2. Any of the funds introduced into Perú by the Institute for the purpose of the cooperative education program shall be exempt from taxes, service charges, investment or deposit requirements, and other currency controls. Any of the funds deposited by the Institute to the credit of the Servicio shall be exchanged at the highest rate which, on the day the exchange is made, is available to the Government of the United States for its diplomatic and other official expenditures in Perú, but in any event, at a rate of exchange of not less than S/.6.485 per dollar. "
CLAUSE IV
The Republic undertakes to obtain or promulgate such legislation, decrees, orders or resolutions as may be necessary to effectuate the terms of this Extension Agreement.

Legislation.

CLAUSE V

This Extension Agreement shall become effective as of the first of

July on the date it is signed.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension

Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized Representatives, in

quintuplicate, in the Spanish and English languages, in Lima, Perú, this 1° day of September, 1949.

FOR THE REPUBLIC OF PERU

FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTER AMERICAN AFFAIRS

MENDOZA. BY
Juan Mendoza R.

LYLE B PEMBER BY
Lyle B. Pember

Minister of Public Education

Special Representative

Effective date.

2886

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

CONVENIO DE PRORROGA
El GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA DEL PERU (que en adelante será llamado "el Gobierno" ) , representado por el Coronel Juan Mendoza R., Ministro de Educación Pública, ( al que en adelante se referirá como el "Ministro" ) y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , ( que en adelante será llamado "Instituto " ) , corporación que depende del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, representado por el Sr. Lyle B. Pember, Representante Especial del Departamento de Educación del Instituto ( al que en adelante se referirá como el "Representante Especial" ) , han convenido, de conformidad con la solicitud. formulada por el Gobierno del Perú, y de acuerdo con los términos de las notas cambiadas con fechas 26 de agosto de 1949 y 1º de setiembre de 1949 entre el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores del Perú y el Embajador de los Estados Unidos sobre los detalles técnicos para la extensión y modificación-de acuerdo con las cláusulas que se establecen en el presente convenio del Contrato que estableció el programa cooperativo educacional para llevarse a cabo en el Perú, (que en adelante será llamado "Contrato Básico " ) y que con fecha 4 de abril de 1944 se celebrara entre el Gobierno del Perú y la Fundación Interamericana de Educación Inc., organismo del cual es sucesor el Instituto , así como de su modificación y prórrogas.
CLAUSULA I
El programa cooperativo de educación, establecido por el Contrato Básico queda prorrogado por un período adicional de un año, desde el 30 de junio de 1949 hasta el 30 de junio de 1950. Las partes contratantes declaran su completa satisfacción acerca de la forma como ha funcionado hasta el presente el Servicio Cooperativo PeruanoNorteamericano de Educación (que en adelante será llamado el "Servicio" ) y expresan su reconocimiento por la eficacia de los servicios prestados por el Servicio a la educación en el Perú.
CLAUSULA II
Además de los fondos que el Contrato Básico y sus prórrogas requiere que se proporcionen o sean aportados de alguna otra manera por las partes contratantes con respecto al programa cooperativo de educación, las partes contratantes del presente, contribuirán y aportarán fondos para ser empleados en la prosecución del programa durante el período comprendido por este Convenio de Prórroga de acuerdo con el siguiente plan :
1. El Instituto aportará los fondos necesarios para pagar los sueldos y todos los gastos del personal del Departamento de Educación en el Perú, durante el período comprendido en este Convenio de Prórroga,

63 STAT. ]

Aug. 26, 1949 PERU- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Sept. 1, 1949

siempre y cuando la suma total de dichos fondos no exceda la cantidad de $129,000.00. Esta cantidad será administrada por el Instituto y no será depositada en la cuenta del Servicio.
2. El Instituto depositará en la cuenta del Servicio la suma de $50,000.00, o su equivalente en soles, de la manera siguiente :

En o antes del 15 de agosto de 1949 Una suma de $4,166.67 en o antes del decimoquinto día de
cada mes subsiguiente hasta el 15 de junio de 1950, inclusive, pagos mensuales que sumarán

$8, 333. 30 41 , 666. 70

Total $50, 000. 00

Todas las contribuciones en efectivo que haga el Instituto al Servicio serán depositadas en los Estados Unidos, en un banco comercial de reconocido prestigio en el comercio internacional, a la orden del Servicio, a fin de poder contar con un fondo en dólares para atender a las necesidades de los proyectos debidamente aprobados del Servicio.
3. El Gobierno del Perú depositará a la cuenta del Servicio, la suma de S/.1'956,836.35, de la manera siguiente :

En o antes del 15 de setiembre de 1949 Una suma de S/.10,833.34 en o antes del decimoquinto día
de cada mes subsiguiente hasta el 15 de diciembre de 1949, inclusive, pagos mensuales que sumarán En o antes del 15 de enero de 1950 Una suma de S/.304,472.74 en o antes del decimoquinto día de cada mes subsiguiente hasta el 15 de junio de 1950 inclusive, pagos mensuales que sumarán

S/.97, 499. 98
32, 500. 02 304, 472. 75
1'522, 363. 60

Total S/.1'956, 836. 35

4. Los fondos que serán depositados por el Instituto conforme a la sub-sección 2 de la Cláusula II, el 15 de agosto de 1949, estarán disponibles para ser gastados desde la fecha en que sean depositados, pero todo depósito subsiguiente que efectuara cualquiera de las partes no quedará disponible para ser retirado o gastado mientras que el depósito correspondiente en la misma fecha a la otra parte no sea efectuado .
5. Las partes contratantes, por acuerdo escrito entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial, pueden modificar las fechas para efectuar los depósitos establecidos en la Cláusula II.
CLAUSULA III
El Contrato Básico permanecerá en vigor y en todo su efecto para los fines de la extensión del programa cooperativo de educación , según se establece en el presente, y todas las disposiciones del mismo se aplicarán a todas las operaciones y actividades bajo este Convenio de Prórroga, EXCEPTO que se considerará que el Contrato Básico ( incluyendo extensiones y reformas del mismo ) en su aplicación al período establecido en este Convenio de Prórroga, queda modificado y completado por las disposiciones de este Convenio de Prórroga, incluyendo los siguientes pormenores :
81939-52- PT. III- 38

2887

2888

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

1. Las partes contratantes acuerdan que cualquier fondo que quedara en el Servicio sin invertir y sin obligaciones a la expiración del Programa Cooperativo de Educación, podrá ser, según acuerden entonces por escrito las partes contratantes, restituído al Gobierno del Perú para ser dedicado a actividades que continúen los propósitos de este Convenio ; o también podrá ser restituído a las partes contratantes en proporción a las respectivas contribuciones hechas por cada una de ellas según el Contrato Básico ( incluyendo cualquier prórroga y reforma del mismo) .
2. La sub-sección 2 de la Cláusula IV del Convenio de Prórroga firmado por las partes contratantes el 6 de julio de 1948, se reforma de la siguiente manera :
"2. Cualquiera de los fondos aportados al Perú por el Instituto a beneficio del programa cooperativo de educación, estarán exonerados de impuestos, comisiones, requisitos para efectuar depósitos o inversiones y otras restricciones. Cualquiera de los fondos depositados por el Instituto a la cuenta del Servicio serán convertidos a soles al tipo de cambio más alto que esté a disposición del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos para atender a sus gastos diplómaticos y de otra índole oficial en el Perú el día en que se efectúe la conversión , y en todo caso a un tipo de cambio no menor de S/.6.485 por dólar."
CLAUSULA IV

El Gobierno del Perú se encargará de obtener o promulgar la legislación, decretos , órdenes o resoluciones necesarias para llevar a efecto el presente Convenio de Prórroga.

CLAUSULA V

Este Convenio de Prórroga firmado en la fecha regirá desde el 1º de julio de 1949.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes contratantes celebran este Convenio de Prórroga por intermedio de sus Representantes debidamente autorizados, en quintuplicado, y en los idiomas Castellano e Inglés, en Lima, Perú el 1º de Setiembre de 1949.

POR EL GOBIERNO DEL PERU MENDOZA

POR EL INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTERAMERICANOS LYLE B PEMBER

Juan Mendoza R. Ministro de Educación Pública

Lyle B. Pember Representante Especial

63 STAT] PARAGUAY--AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM-

Jan. 20, Mar. 3, 1947

2889

June 30, 1948, July 22, Aug. 11, 1949

Agreements between the United States of America and Paraguay respecting a cooperative agricultural program in Paraguay, modifying and extending the agreement of December 31 , 1942, as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Asunción July 22

Ja1n9u4a7r,yJu2n0,eM3a0r, c1h9488, July 22, August 11, 1949.
[T. I. A. 8. 2118]

and August 11 , 1949; entered into force September 2, 1949, operative

retroactively from June 30, 1949. And exchange of notes signed at Asunción June 30, 1948; entered into force July 16, 1948, operative

retroactively from June 30, 1948. And exchange of notes signed at

Asunción January 20 and March 3, 1947; entered into force March

3, 1947, operative from December 31 , 1947.

The American Ambassador to the Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship

No. 102 EXCELLENCY :

ASUNCIÓN, July 22, 1949.

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended, entered into in December 1942 between the Republic of Paraguay and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, [1 ] providing for the existing cooperative agricultural program in Paraguay. I also refer to Your Excellency's note number D.A.E. y C. 466 of July 20, 1949 [ 1 ] suggesting the consideration by our respective governments of a further extension of that Agreement.
Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Paraguay that an extension of the program beyond its present termination date of June 30, 1949 would be desirable. Accordingly, I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1949 through June 30, 1950. It would be understood that, during this period of extension , the Institute would make a contribution of $100,000 in the currency of the United States, to the Servicio Técnico

Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola , for use in carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of

Guaraní 1,103,400. The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Food

Supply Division Field Staff who are maintained by the Institute in Paraguay. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums

already required under the present Basic Agreement, as amended, to

' Not printed.

Period of extension. Contributions.

2890

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Entry into force.

be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature of an agreement by the Minister of Economy and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs [ 1 ] embodying the above-mentioned technical details.
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible, in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Economy and The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
FLETCHER WARREN American Ambassador
His Excellency BERNARDO OCAMPOS,
Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship, Asunción.

The Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

D.A.E. y C. Nº 525.SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

ASUNCIÓN, 11 de Agosto de 1.949.-

Tengo el honor de dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia para hacer referencia a su nota N° 102, de fecha 22 de Julio ppdo. , y con relación al contenido de la misma , me es grato poner a su conocimiento el texto de la comunicación S/nº 202, del 10 del corriente mes, del Ministerio de Economia, que es como sigue :

"Señor Ministro : Me es grato dirigirme a V.E. con el objeto de acusar recibo de su oficio D.A.E. y C. Nº 488 , del 27 de Julio ppdo., remitiendo a este Ministerio copia del texto de la nota Nº 102, del 22 del mismo mes, recibida de la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América en esta Capital, conteniendo la conformidad del Departamento de Estado de Washington para la prórroga del Convenio suscrito entre nuestro Gobierno y el Servicio Técnico Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola ( STICA) . Sobre el particular, cábeme recordar a V.E. que en Consejo de Ministros ya se ha resuelto aceptar dicha prórroga en las condiciones mencionadas en la nota de referencia.- Al rogarle quiera tener a bien transmitir la presente comunicación a la Embajada Americana en nuestro

' Sept. 2, 1949.

Jan. 20, Mar. 3, 1947

2891

63 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM- June 30, 1948, July 22, Aug. 11, 1949

país me complazco en saludar a V.E. con mi mejor consideración. Fdo : Fabio DA Silva. Ministro".-

Al dejar así expresado la afirmación de mi Gobierno a los términos de la precitada nota de Vuestra Excelencia , me complazco en reiterarle las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.-

[SEAL ]

B. OCAMPOS

A su Excelencia El Enviado Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Hon. Don FLETCHER WARREN.Presente.-

Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP

D.A.E. y C. No. 525. MR. AMBASSADOR :

ASUNCIÓN, August 11, 1949.

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note No. 102 dated July 22 last, and with respect thereto I am pleased to inform you of the text of communication S/No. 202 of the 10th of this month from the Ministry of Economy, which reads as follows :

"Mr. Minister : I am pleased to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's note D.A.E. y C. No. 488 of July 27 last, transmitting to this Ministry a copy of Note No. 102 dated July 22, from the Embassy of the United States of America in this capital, expressing the acceptance of the Department of State of Washington of the extension of the Agreement concluded between our Government and the Servicio Técnico Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola (STICA) . With respect to this matter, I recall to Your Excellency that it has been resolved by the Council of Ministers to accept the said extension under the terms mentioned in the aforesaid note. Requesting you to be good enough to transmit this communication to the American Embassy in our country, I renew to you the assurances of my highest consideration.

Signed: Fabio da Silva, Minister. "

Expressing thus my Government's acceptance of the terms of the above-mentioned note of Your Excellency, I renew to you the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

[ SEAL ]

B. OCAMPOS

His Excellency Envoy Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, FLETCHER WARREN. City. -

2892

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

The American Ambassador to the Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship

No. 56 EXCELLENCY :

ASUNCIÓN, June 30, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Government of Paraguay and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, dated December 31 , 1942, as later modified and extended, [ ¹ ] which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative agricultural program in Paraguay. I also refer to the telegram , dated June 14, 1948, from His Excellency the Provisional President of Paraguay, Doctor Juan Manuel Frutos, to President Harry S. Truman [ ¹ ] suggesting the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.

As Your Excellency knows, the agreement of December 31 , 1942,

as amended, provides that the cooperative agricultural program will

terminate on June 30, 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my

Government agrees with the Government of Paraguay that an exten-

Period of extension.

sion of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative

Contributions.

program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1948 through June 30, 1949. It would be understood that, during such period of extension

the Institute would make a contribution of $100,000 U. S. Cy. to the

Servicio Técnico Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola for use in

carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the

sum of Guarani 1,103,400. The Institute would also be willing during

the same extension period to make available an amount not exceeding

$160,000 U. S. Cy. to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other ex-

penses of the members of the Institute Food Supply Field Staff who

are maintained by the Institute in Paraguay. The amounts referred

to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present

Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the exten-

Entry into force.

sion may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Economy and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature of an agreement by the Minister of

¹Not printed.

63 STAT. ] PARAGUAY--AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM- June 30,Jan. 20, Mar. 3, 1947

2893

1948, July 22, Aug. 11, 1949

Economy and by a representative of the Institute of Inter- American

Affairs[ 1 ] embodying the above mentioned technical details.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.

FLETCHER WARREN American Ambassador
His Excellency VICTOR MORÍNIGO, Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship, Asunción.

The Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

D.P. y D.No 666.-

ASUNCIÓN, 30 de Junio de 1948.-

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo el honor de dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia, acusando recibo de la nota N° 56, fechada el día de hoy en la que al hacer referencia al Acuerdo Básico celebrado entre el Gobierno del Paraguay y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos fechado el 31 de Diciembre de 1942 , y las modificaciones y prórroga subsecuente, que se estipula para el establecimiento y ejecución de un programa cooperativo de agricultura en el Paraguay y al telegrama fechado el 14 de Junio de 1948 de Su Excelencia el Presidente Provisional del Paraguay, Doctor Juan Manuel Frutos, al Presidente Harry S. Truman sugiriendo la deliberación por nuestros Gobiernos respectivos de una prórroga adicional de ese Acuerdo, Vuestra Excelencia expresa que considerando los beneficios mútuos que ambos gobiernos obtienen del programa, su Gobierno concuerda con el Gobierno del Paraguay que una prórroga de tal programa sería deseable.-

Al respecto, me es grato llevar a conocimiento de Vuestra Excelencia que transmitida la citada nota al Ministerio de Economía, esa Secretaría de Estado ha comunicado a esta Cancillería que está conforme en prorrogar el citado Acuerdo Básico.-

Aprovecho la oportunidad para saludar a Vuestra Excelencia con mi consideración distinguida.-
VICTOR MORÍNIGO

A Su Excelencia El Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América Hon. FLETCHER WARREN Presente.-

[ SEAL ]

' July 16, 1948.

2894 Ante, p. 2892.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.
Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP

D.P. & D.No. 666.-

ASUNCIÓN, June 30, 1948.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to address Your Excellency to acknowledge receipt of your Note No. 56 of this date, in which, with reference to the Basic Agreement concluded between the Government of Paraguay and the Institute of Inter- American Affairs, dated December 31 , 1942, and the amendments and subsequent extension concluded for the establishment and execution of a cooperative agricultural program in Paraguay, and to the telegram dated June 14, 1948 , from His Excellency the Provisional President of Paraguay, Dr. Juan Manuel Frutos, to President Harry S. Truman, suggesting a discussion by our respective Governments of a further extension of this Agreement, Your Excellency states that, considering the mutual benefits derived by both Governments from the program, your Government agrees with the Government of Paraguay that an extension of such a program would be desirable.

In this connection, I have the pleasure of informing Your Excel-

lency that the said note having been transmitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that department of state has informed this Ministry

that it is agreeable to extending the aforementioned Basic Agreement. I avail myself of this opportunity to convey to Your Excellency the
expression of my distinguished consideration.

VICTOR MORÍNIGO

His Excellency Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America FLETCHER WARREN City. -

[ SEAL ]

The Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO
D.A.E. y C. N° 24.-
SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

ASUNCIÓN, 20 de enero de 1947.-

Tengo el agrado de dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia con el objeto de transcribirle el texto de la nota S/N° 13, del 16 de corriente mes, del Ministerio de Agricultura, que dice así :
"Señor Ministro : Hace cuatro años que viene prestando servicio en el Paraguay el STICA ( Servicio Técnico Interamericano de Co-

63 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM-

Jan. 20, Mar. 3, 1947

2895

June 30, 1948, July 22, Aug. 11 , 1949

operación Agrícola ) , entidad especial creada por un convenio sus-

crito por el Gobierno del Paraguay y el Instituto de Asuntos

Interamericanos de EE.UU. ( institución ésta ya ampliamente conocida por sus esfuerzos de colaboración dentro del espíritu de buena vecindad ) . El convenio que creó el STICA lo dota de facultades

para colaborar con este Ministerio en el aumento de la producción agropecuaria y el mejoramiento del standard de vida de la masa campesina, propendiendo así a la intensificación del intercambio

comercial y cultural entre los dos países.- Los resultados de los

trabajos del STICA recien empeizan a hacerse sentir en la economía

nacional, pues es sabido que todo progreso en materia agropecuaria

es por su naturaleza lento. Es así, opinión de este Ministerio, que

los trabajos del STICA deben continuar sin interrupción unos años más, para que las inversiones y esfuerzos hechos por los dos gobier-

nos se vean coronados por un éxito ampliamente justificativo.Por las circunstancias brevemente expuestas, me dirijo a V.E. para

rogarle se sirva hacer llegar al Excmo. Señor Embajador de los EE.UU. de Norteamérica, Honorable Willard Beaulac, los deseos

de nuestro Gobierno de prorrogar los trabajos cooperativos del STICA por cinco años más (desde el vencimiento del contrato actual ,

el 31 de diciembre de 1947 ) .- En el caso de ser imposible por el

momento prorrogar el STICA por cinco años, es deseo de nuestro

Gobierno que se firme una prórroga hasta el 30 de junio de 1948 , reforzando al mismo tiempo el presupuesto actual, que es insuficiente para asegurar el éxito de los trabajos emprendidos.- En este

sentido el Gobierno del Paraguay está dispuesto a firmar un nuevo contrato con el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos que regiría hasta el 30 de Junio de 1948, contribuyendo el Paraguay CIEN MIL

DOLARES Y EE . UU. CINCUENTA MIL DOLARES, con cuotas y fechas de

pago de las mismas a establecerse de común acuerdo.- Se sugiere que la firma del nuevo convenio se haga antes del 15 de Marzo de 1947,

para que la marcha de los trabajos emprendidos no se interrumpa.-

Aprovecho esta oportunidad para saludar al Señor Ministro con mi

mejor consideración.Ministro.-"

FDO : GUILLERMO ENCISO VELLOSO.-

Al transmitir a V.E. los deseos de mi Gobierno expresados en la transcripta comunicación , lo hago en la seguridad de que V.E. interpondrá sus mejores oficios ante Vuestro Gobierno en el sentido expresado en la misma.
Válgome de esta oportunidad para renovar al Señor Embajador las seguridades de mi consideración más distinguida.-
FEDERICO CHAVES

A Su Excelencia

[SEAL ]

el Señor Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América,

Hon. WILLARD L. BEAULAC. Presente.-

2896

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP

D.A.E. y C. No. 24.
MR. AMBASSADOR :

ASUNCIÓN, January 20, 1947.

I take pleasure in addressing Your Excellency in order to provide you with the text of note S/No. 13 of January 16 from the Ministry of Agriculture, which reads as follows :
"Mr. Minister : For four years services have been rendered in Paraguay by STICA ( Servicio Técnico Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola ) , a special agency created under an agreement signed by the Government of Paraguay and the Institute of Inter- American Affairs of the United States [ 1] (which institution is already widely known for its cooperative efforts within the spirit of the Good Neighbor Policy ) . The agreement which created STICA vests in it powers to collaborate with this Ministry in increasing agricultural and livestock production and improving the living standards of the farm population, thereby furthering the intensification of commercial and cultural exchange between the two countries. The results of the work of STICA are just beginning to be felt in the national economy, for it is well known that all progress in agricultural and livestock matters is by nature slow. Hence it is the opinion of this Ministry that the work of STICA should be continued without interruption for several more years, in order that the investments and efforts made by the two Governments may be crowned with fully justified success. In view of the circumstances briefly set forth above, I request that Your Excellency be good enough to communicate to His Excellency Willard Beaulac, Ambassador of the United States of America, our Government's wish to extend STICA'S COOperative work for five more years (from the expiration of the present contract on December 31 , 1947 ) . Should it not be possible for the time being to extend STICA for five years, it is our Government's desire to subscribe to an extension until June 30, 1948, at the same time increasing the present budget, which is not sufficient to insure the success of the projects undertaken. To this end the Government of Paraguay is prepared to sign a new contract with the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, which would be in force until June 30, 1948, Paraguay contributing ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS and the United States, FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS,
the quotas and dates of payment thereof to be established by mutual agreement. It is suggested that the new agreement be signed before March 15 , 1947, so that the work undertaken may not be interrupted. I avail myself of this opportunity to express to you, Mr. Minister, my highest consideration. SIGNED : GUILLERMO ENCISO VELLOSO. Minister."

' Not printed.

63 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-- AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM June 30,Jan. 20, Mar. 3, 1947

2897

1948, July 22 , Aug. 11, 1949

In communicating to Your Excellency my Government's wishes as expressed in the communication transcribed above, I do so with the assurance that Your Excellency will interpose your good offices with your Government in accordance with the terms of the said communication.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
FEDERICO CHAVES

[ SEAL ] His Excellency
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, WILLARD L. BEAULAC. City . -

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship

No. 397 EXCELLENCY :

ASUNCIÓN, March 3, 1947

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's

note no. 24 of January 20, 1947 transcribing the text of a communica-

tion (S. N. 13 ) dated January 16, 1947 addressed to Your Excellency by the Minister of Agriculture, with regard to the extension of the contract with STICA, or Servicio Técnico Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola.

My Government, apprised of the desire of Your Excellency's Government to continue this useful program through an extension of the present contract, has instructed me to agree to such an extension, from December 31 , 1947 to June 30, 1948 , with financial contributions in the new contract to be in the amount of 100,000 dollars for Your Excellency's Government and 50,000 dollars from the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. The Institute will also make a separate allocation of funds necessary to pay the salaries, living expenses, travel and transportation costs, and other administrative expenses of the members of the Institute Field Party in Paraguay and other Institute employees incurred after execution of the new agreement. The

estimated sum of approximately 85,000 dollars will be allocated for these purposes separately and apart from the funds to be deposited to the account of STICA by the Institute.
The texts in English and Spanish of the new contract are enclosed

herewith. They will be signed at the convenience of Your Excellency's Government on behalf of the Institute by Mr. William Brister, Vice-President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate

instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America. It is a source of sincere gratification to my Government to learn
that the cooperative program which our two Governments have undertaken in accordance with inter-American agreements to implement

Ante, p. 2894.
Period of extension. Contributions.

2898

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
the Good Neighbor Policy is making a definite contribution to the national economy of Paraguay and that it will now be continued until June 30, 1948 on the terms provided in the aforementioned contract.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
EDWARD G. TRUEBLOOD
Enclosure : ['] English and Spanish texts of Extension Agreement between the Government of Paraguay and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
His Excellency Doctor FEDERICO CHAVES, Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship, Asunción.
'Not printed.

63 STAT.]

Mar. 16, 1949

PANAMA- PASSPORT

VISASJune

14,

1949

2899

Agreement between the United States of America and Panama respecting passport visas. Effected by exchange of notes dated at Panamá March 16 and June 14 , 1949; entered into force June 14, 1949.

March 16 and June 14, 1949
[T. I. A. 8. 2134]

The American Embassy to the Panamanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to refer to the issuance of diplomatic and official visas by the Governments of the United States and Panama. As the Ministry is aware, the Government of the United States issues diplomatic and official visas to diplomatic and career consular officers and other Panamanian Government officials entitled to those visas valid for any number of entries during a period of one year provided , of course, that the passports remain valid for that period of time.
Inasmuch as it has been noted that the Government of Panama
issues diplomatic and official visas valid for only one entry this Embassy takes the liberty of submitting for the Ministry's consideration the suggestion that the Government of Panama issue visas in these categories to bearers of United States diplomatic and special passports valid for any number of entries during a period of one year, provided that the passports remain valid for that period of time.
Should the Government of Panama express agreement to the Embassy's suggestion as indicated above, it would tend to place the issuance of visas in these categories on a basis of reciprocity.
C. C. H. PANAMA, March 16, 1949

The Panamanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

REPUBLICA DE PANAMA
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES SECCION PRIMERA
DEEPPAARTAMENTO DE CEREMONIAL O PROTOCOLO

D. C. o P. Në

El Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores saluda atentamente a la H. Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América y tiene a honra referirse a la nota verbal de la Embajada, de 16 de marzo último , relacionada con las visas diplomáticas y visas oficiales que el Gobierno de Panamá expide a los funcionarios diplomáticos y oficiales del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , las cuales la Embajada solicita sean válidas para entrar al país las veces necesarias, por el período de un año , si los pasaportes son válidos también por este período .
El Ministerio considera que en el caso de que trata la Embajada debe aplicarse la reciprocidad , y por lo tanto , está en un todo de

2900

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.

acuerdo de conceder a los diplomáticos y funcionarios del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, visa para entrar a Panamá en las mismas

condiciones en que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos otorga visa a

los diplomáticos y funcionarios oficiales del Gobierno de Panamá para entrar a los Estados Unidos.

Al efecto, el Ministerio se ha dirigido a todas las representaciones

diplomáticas de Panamá, instruyéndolas en el sentido de que a partir del 1 ° de julio próximo, las visas que se otorgan a diplomáticos y funcionarios oficiales norteamericanos deben llevar una leyenda que

diga que estas visas son válidas para entrar a Panamá las veces

necesarias , por el período de un año, si los pasaportes son también

válidos por este mismo período de tiempo .

I M.

PANAMÁ, 14 de junio de 1949.

Translation
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
DIVISIONI DEPARTMENT OF CEREMONIAL AND PROTOCOL

D. O. o P. No.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and has the honor to refer to the Embassy's note verbale of March 16 , 1949 , relating to the diplomatic visas and official visas that the Government of Panama issues to diplomatic functionaries and officials of the Government of the United States . The Embassy requests that those visas be valid for entering the country as often as necessary, for the period of one year, provided the passports are valid also for such period .
The Ministry considers that in the case contemplated by the Embassy reciprocity should be applied and, therefore, is entirely agreeable to granting the diplomats and functionaries of the Government of the United States a visa to enter Panama subject to the same conditions under which the Government of the United States grants a visa to the diplomats and official functionaries of the Government of Panama to enter the United States .
The Ministry has therefore addressed all diplomatic representations of Panama, instructing them to the effect that, beginning with July 1 , 1949 , the visas granted to United States diplomats and official functionaries must bear a statement to the effect that such visas are valid for entering Panama as often as necessary, for the period of one year, provided the passports are also valid for such period . I M. PANAMÁ, June 14, 1949.

63 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN INDUSTRIAL PLANTS-MAR. 31 , 1949

2901

Agreement between the United States of America, the United Kingdom, and France respecting retention in Germany or removal as reparations of German industrial plants . Signed at London March 31 , 1949; entered into force April 8, 1949.
GERMANY REPARATIONS RECOMMENDATION
concerning the retention in Germany or removal as reparations of the German
industrial plants listed by the Humphrey Committee

March 31, 1949 [T. I. A. 8. 2142]

We, the undersigned , recommend to our respective Governments that the United States, French, and United Kingdom Military Governors be instructed in accordance with the terms of the attached statement , ['] which is drawn up in the English and French languages.

L. W. DOUGLAS United States Delegation

R MASSIGLI French
Delegation

I. KIRKPATRICK United Kingdom
Delegation 31st March, 1949

1 Entered into force Apr. 8, 1949, upon confirmation and approval by the Foreign Ministers of the French Republic, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America. See Treaties and Other International Acts Series 2066, ante, p . 2817.

2902
Infra. Supra.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT. STATEMENT
concerning the retention in Germany or removal as reparations of the German
industrial plants listed by the Humphrey Committee
The Governments of France, the United Kingdom and the United States agree that of the 167 plants reviewed and to which reference is made in the Note of the United States Government of 25th January, 1949,[ ] the following plants shall be dismantled and removed for reparations, and all others shall be retained in Germany on the grounds that in their present location they will more effectively contribute to European Recovery.
STEEL 1. CIND 1320 Bochumer Verein Gusstahlfabrik Bochum . 2. CIND 1324 August Thyssenhütte, Hamborn. (The facilities for
ore sintering and power generation where not dependent on blast furnace gas are, however, to be retained in Germany) . 3. CIND 1327 Deutsche Edelstahlwerke (Tiegelstahl) , Bochum. 4. CIND 1342 Klöckner Werke A.G. Düsseldorf. 5. CIND 1344 August Thyssen Hütte, A.G. Niederrheinische, Duisburg. 6. CIND 1663 Hoesch A.G. , Hohenlimburg. CHEMICALS
7. CIND 2062 I. G. Farben, Ludwigshafen . 8. CIND 2076 I. G. Farben, Oppau . 9. CIND 2042 I. G. Farben, Ludwigshafen.
AMENDMENT .
Under CHEMICALS Serial 7 Delete CIND 2062 etc. Insert part of CIND 2062 I. G. Farben, RHEINFELDEN
and part of CIND 2062 (b) I. G. Farben , LUDWIGSHAFEN. 22nd June, 1949
1 Not printed.

63 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- GERMAN INDUSTRIAL PLANTS -MAR. 31 , 1949
REPARATIONS ALLEMANDES RECOMMANDATIONS
au sujet du maintien en Allemagne ou de l'enlèvement au titre des réparations des usines allemandes figurant dans la liste
rédigée par le Comité Humphrey

Nous, soussignés , recommandons à nos Gouvernements respectifs d'envoyer aux Commandants en Chef américain , britannique et français des instructions conformes aux termes de la déclaration ci-jointe, rédigée en langues anglaise et française.

L. W. DOUGLAS Délégation des Etats - Unis

R. MASSIGLI Délégation de la République Française

I. KIRKPATRICK Délégation
du Royaume-Uni 31 mars, 1949

DECLARATION au sujet du maintien en Allemagne ou de l'enlèvement au titre des réparations des usines allemandes figurant dans la liste rédigée par le Comité Humphrey

Les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis, de la République Française et du Royaume-Uni sont d'accord pour que les usines anumérées ci-dessous , comprises dans la liste des 167 usines soumises à examen, et auxquelles se réfèrait la note du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis en date du 25 janvier 1949 , soient démontées et enlevées au titre des réparations et pour que toutes les autres usines comprises dans la même liste soient laissées en Allemagne en raison du fait que, maintenues sur place, elles contribueront plus efficacement à la Reconstruction Européenne.
ACIER
1. CIND 1320 Bochumer Verein Gusstahlfabrik Bochum. 2. CIND 1324 August Thyssenhütte, Hamborn (les installations pour l'enrichissement du minerai et la production d'énergie électrique seront cependant maintenues en Allemagne dans la mesure où elles ne sont pas approvisionnées en gaz de haut-fourneau ) . 3. CIND 1327 Deutsche Edelstahlwerke (Tiegelstahl) , Bochum . 4. CIND 1342 Klöckner Werke A.G. Düsseldorf. 5. CIND 1344 August Thyssen Hütte, A.G. Niederrheinische ,
Duisburg .
6. CIND 1663 Hoesch A.G. , Hohenlimburg. CHIMIE
7. CIND 2063 I. G. Farben, Ludwigshafen 8. CIND 2076 I. G. Farben, Oppau 9. CIND 2042 I. G. Farben, Ludwigshafen .

2903

2904

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES AMENDMENT.

[63 STAT.

Sous CHIME numero d'ordre 7 Rayer CIND 2063 etc. Inserer
Partie de CIND 2062 I. G. Farben RHEINFELDEN. Partie de CIND 2062 (b) I. G. Farben LUDWIGSHAFEN.
22nd June, 1949.

63 STAT. ] GREECE-PASSPORT VISA FEES - JAN. 7, 29, 1949

2905

Agreement between the United States of America and Greece respecting passport visa fees . Effected by exchange of notes dated at Athens January 7 and 29, 1949; entered into force January 29, 1949.

January 7, 29, 1949 (T. I. A. 8. 2144]

The American Embassy to the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs
No. 11 -
The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to refer to its Note Verbale No. 1483 of December 13, 1948 [ 1 ] and to the conversation held on October 23, 1948, between Nr. Nicholas Anissas, of the Ministry, and Mr. Oliver S. Crosby, of the Embassy, concerning the desirability of effecting a mutual reduction of certain non-immigrant passport visa fees and an extension of the period of validity of such visas.
The Embassy is pleased to report that on and after the fifteenth day of February, 1949 , the Government ofthe United States will grant non-immigrant passport visas to qualified bearers of valid Greek passports at a fee of $5.00 for each visa granted ( no fee will be charged for the execution of a non-immigrant passport visa application form ) , if the Government of Greece will accord a similar courtesy to American citizens in a like category desiring to enter Greece or its possessions.
The Ministry is advised further that the aforesaid non-immigrant visas shall be valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States and its possessions within a period of twenty-four (24) months, provided the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period. All other non-immigrant passport visas (except diplomatic, official, and international organization visas, which are of course gratis) , granted to qualified Greek nationals, will be at a fee of $5.00 and valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States during a period of twelve ( 12 ) months, provided the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period and provided the Greek Government will accord a similar courtesy to American citizens in a like category.
The period of validity of a visa relates only to the period within which it may be used in connection with an application for admission at a port of entry into the United States and its possessions, and not to the length of stay in the United States which may be permitted the bearer after he is admitted. The period of time an alien may be permitted to stay in the United States is determined by the Immigration authorities at the time the alien is admitted.
It should be understood that a non-immigrant passport visa becomes invalid if the passport to which it is affixed expires prior to the normal

' Not printed.

2906

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

expiry date of the visa . However , should the validity of the passport

be extended prior to the expiry date, the visa remains valid for the

period for which it was granted.

The fee for an immigration visa and application therefor, to permit

an alien to apply for admission into the United States and its posses-

43 Stat. 153. 8 U. 8S. C. 201 note.

sions with the privilege of residing permanently therein , is $10.00. The amount of this fee is prescribed by the Immigration Act of 1924, and it may not be changed on the basis of a reciprocal arrangement.
The Embassy of the United States of America avails itself of this

occasion to renew to the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs the assurances of its highest consideration.

ATHENS, January 7, 1949.
To the ROYAL HELLENIC MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS , Athens.

RBM

The Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

ROYAUME DE GRÈCE

MINISTÈRE DES AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

No 1155 E/9

Note -Verbale

Le Ministère Royal des Affaires Etrangères présente ses compliments à l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et a l'honneur d'accuser réception de sa Note sub Nº 11 du 11 de ce mois, concernant la réduction et l'unification des taxes à percevoir par les Autorités Consulaires américaines et helléniques au sujet des visas.
Selon l'accord ainsi conclu les Autorités Consulaires helléniques per-
cevront à partir du Ier février 1949, les taxes suivantes sur les visas des passeports américains :

Visa pour émigrants valable 1 année Visa valable jusqu'à 2 ans et pour plusieurs voyages Visa pour touristes et de transit

$ 10 $5 $5

Le Ministère Royal des Affaires Etrangères saisit cette occasion pour renouveler à l'Ambassade des Etats Unis d'Amérique les assurances de sa très haute considération.

ATHÈNES, le 29 janvier 1949

S

AFFAIRES

ISTER DE

TRANGERES

MIN

AMBASSADE DES ETATS- UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE En Ville

63 STAT. ] GREECE-PASSPORT VISA FEES-JAN. 7, 29, 1949 Translation
KINGDOM OF GREECE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS No. 1155 E/9
Note -Verbale

The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and has the honor to acknowledge receipt of its note No. 11 of the eleventh instant concerning the reduction and standardization of the visa fees to be collected by the American and Greek consular authorities.
In accordance with the agreement thus concluded, the Greek consular authorities will, beginning February 1 , 1949 , collect the following fees for visas on American passports :

Emigrant visa, valid for 1 year Visa valid up to 2 years and for several trips Tourist and transient visa

$10.00 5.00 5.00

The Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs avails itself of this occasion to renew to the Embassy of the United States of America the assurances of its highest consideration.

ATHENS, January 29, 1949

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA City

2907

2908

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

July 23 and September 2, 1949
IT. I. A. 8. 2149]

Agreement between the United States of America and Panama respecting a cooperative educational program in Panama, extending the program providedfor by the agreement of November 13 and 14 , 1944, as extended by the agreement of September 23 and 24, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Panamá July 23 and September 2, 1949; entered intoforce September 2, 1949, operative retroactivelyfrom June 30, 1949.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Panamanian Minister for Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 209 EXCELLENCY :

PANAMÁ, PANAMÁ, July 23, 1949

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended , entered into in February 1946 between the Republic of Panamá and pp6.2408S4t, a4t0.9,4. Pt . 3 , the predecessor of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, providing for the existing cooperative educational program in Panamá . I also refer to Your Excellency's note of July 1 , 1949 , ['] suggesting

Period of extension.

the consideration by our respective governments of a further extension of that Agreement.
Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are

deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Govern-

ment of Panamá that an extension of the program beyond its present

termination date of June 30 , 1949 would be desirable. Accordingly,

I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue

Contributions.

its participation in the program for a period of one year , from June 30, 1949 through June 30 , 1950. It would be understood that, during this period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution not to exceed the sum of $20,000 in the currency of the United States , to the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Educacion, for use in

carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose a

sum not less than B/ 101,000 . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Education Division field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Panamá . The amounts referred to would be in addition to

the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement , as
amended, to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.

1 Not printed.

July 23, 1949 63 STAT. ] PANAMA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Sept. 2, 1949

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible, in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Education and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

His Excellency IGNACIO MOLINE, Jr. Minister for Foreign Affairs Panamá, Panamá

CARLOS C. HALL

The Panamanian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

D. P. No 1472.

PANAMÁ, Septiembre 2 de 1949.

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS : Tengo el honor de referirme a la correspondencia cruzada entre esa
Embajada y este Ministerio relacionada con la prórroga solicitada por el Ministerio de Educación de Panamá, del Convenio celebrado entre ese Ministerio y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericano de Educación, a cuyo cuidado se ha confiado la organización e intensificación de un programa de educación vocacional en la República.
Sobre el particular, tengo el agrado de informar a Vuestra Señoría, que por nota recibida de parte del Ministro de Educación, Don Ernesto Méndez , se me ha comunicado que ese Ministerio está conforme con la prórroga del referido Convenio y se encuentra de acuerdo con los detalles y cifras especificadas en la nota número 209 , de fecha 23 de julio del presente año y recibida en este Despacho de parte de Vuestra Señoría .

Agradeciendo la atención brindada por Vuestra Señoría en este asunto, aprovecho la oportunidad para testimoniarle las seguridades de mi más distinguida consideración .
GMO. MÉNDEZ P

Gmo . Méndez P. ,

Su Señoría CARLOS C. HALL,

Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores.

Encargado de Negocios de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad.-

2909

2910

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [63 STAT.

Translation

MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS

D. P. No. 1472.

PANAMÁ, September 2, 1949. MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :
I have the honor to refer to the correspondence exchanged between your Embassy and this Ministry relating to the extension requested by the Ministry of Education of Panama of the Education Agreement concluded between the said Ministry and the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs , which has been charged with the organization and intensification of a vocational education program in the Republic .
With reference to this matter, I have the pleasure of informing you that a note received from Mr. Ernesto Méndez , Minister of Education, has informed me that the Ministry of Education is in accord with the extension of the aforesaid Agreement and with the details and figures given in your note No. 209 of July 23 of this year, received in this office .
Thanking you for the attention that you have given this matter, I avail myself of the opportunity to assure you of my most distinguished consideration.
GMO. MENDEZ P
Gmo . Méndez P., Minister for Foreign Affairs . Mr. CARLOS C. HALL,
Chargé d'Affaires of the United States of America, City.-

63 STAT. ] HAITI FOOD PRODUCTION PROGRAM-JUNE 30, 1949

2911

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting a cooperative food production program in Haiti, modifying and extending the agreement of August 28, 1944 , as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Port-au-Prince June 30, 1949; entered
into force June 30, 1949.

June 30, 1949 [T. I. A. S. 2153]

The American Ambassador to the Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY,

No. 306 EXCELLENCY :

Port-au-Prince, June 30, 1949.

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended, entered into in August 1944 between the Republic of Haiti and The
Institute of Inter-American Affairs, providing for the existing cooperative program of agriculture in Haiti. I also refer to Your

62 Stat . , Pt . 3, pp. 3950, 4029.

Excellency's note of June 20, 1949, [ 1 ] suggesting the consideration

by our respective governments of a further extension of that

Agreement . Considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are de-
riving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Haiti that an extension of the program beyond its present termination date of June 30, 1949 would be desirable. Accordingly, I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1949 through June 30, 1950. It would be understood that, during this period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $100,000 in the currency of the United States, to the Service Cooperatif Inter-Americain de Production Agricole, for use in carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Service for the same purpose the sum of 1,500,000 Gourdes. The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be administered by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Service, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Food Supply Division field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Haiti. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums
already required under the present Basic Agreement, as amended, to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .
The Government of the United States of America will consider

Period of extension. Contributions.
Entry into force.

the present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature of an agreement by the Secretary

¹Not printed. 81939-52 - PT. III- -39

2912

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 63 STAT.
of State for Agriculture and a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs [ ¹ ] embodying the above-mentioned technical details.
If the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's assurance to that effect as soon as may be possible, in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and The Institute of Inter- American Affairs.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest consideration.
WILLIAM E. DECOURCY His Excellency
TIMOLEON C. BRUTUS,
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Port-au-Prince.

The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American

Ambassador

SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT

DES RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES

RÉPUBLIQUE D' HAÏTI

No. SG/A-3 : 1.681 (bis)

Port-au-Prince, le 30 Juin 1949.

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR, J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception à Votre Excellence de sa lettre
en date du 30 courant, No. 306 , relative au renouvellement de l'accord du 28 Août 1944, amendé, pour une période d'une année finissant le 30 Août 1950.
J'ai noté que les détails techniques dudit accord à conclure entre l'Institut des Affaires Inter-américaines et le Gouvernement haitien devront être discutés par les fonctionnaires compétents des deux organismes.
Il m'est agréable d'informer Votre Excellence que les bases ci-dessous énumérées :

a) contribution du Gouvernement haitien : $300.000

b)

66

de l'Institut

: 100.000

outre une valeur destinée au paiement des salaires et autres frais des membres du personnel de la Food Supply sont acceptées par le Gouvernement de la République.
Je saisis cette occasion pour renouveler à Votre Excellence , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, l'assurance de ma haute considération.

Son Excellence

TIMOLÉON C. BRUTUS.

Monsieur WILLIAM EARL DECOURCY,

Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire des Etats- Unis d'Amérique,

Port-au-Prince.

' June 30, 1949.

63 STAT. ] HAITI-FOOD PRODUCTION PROGRAM-JUNE 30, 1949

2913

MINISTRY OF STATE FOR
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
No. SG/A-3 : 1.681 (bis)

Translation
REPUBLIC OF HAITI Port-au-Prince, June 30, 1949.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's letter

No. 306, dated the 30th of this month, relating to the renewal of the Agreement of August 28, 1944, as amended, for a period of one year ending August 30, 1950.
I have noted that the technical details of the aforesaid Agreement to be concluded between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and

62 Stat . , Pt . 3, pp. 3950, 4029.

the Government of Haiti are to be discussed by the appropriate officials of the two entities.

I am pleased to inform Your Excellency that the bases enumerated below :

(a) contribution by the Government of Haiti : $300,000

66 (b)

the Institute

: $100,000

in addition to an amount intended for the payment of salaries and other expenses of the personnel of the Food Supply, have been accepted by the Government of the Republic.
I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my high consideration.
TIMOLÉON C. BRUTUS. His Excellency
Mr. WILLIAM EARL DECOURCY, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Port-au-Prince.

L **
LGBT 1 162 V 1873

INDEX

A
Accounts and Claims, Financial, agreement with France ..
Agricultural Program, Cooperative, Paraguay...
Aid, Economic. See Economic Aid ; Economic Cooperation ; Mutual Aid Settlement Agreements.
Air Bases, Missions, Services, Etc. See under Aviation.
Alcohol, exclusion from relief goods, provisions in agreement with Free Territory of Trieste, British/U. S. Zone____

Page

2507

Aripo River, Trinidad, impounding, use, exploitation of waters for naval and air bases, provisions in agreement with United Kingdom -----

2889 Aripo Road, Waller Field, Trinidad, maintenance and use, provisions in

agreement with United Kingdom .... Armed Forces, U. S., occupation of tempo-

rary quarters and installations in

Philippines ....

Army Missions. See also Military Mission.

Colombia

2710 Peru.....

Pago
2727 2725 2670 2334 2522

Alcoholic Liquors, Exclusion From Relief Goods:
Provisions in agreements withAustria ...
Germany, French Zone of Occupation ..
Greece ... Netherlands ..
Trieste, Free Territory of, British/ U. S. Zone.
Algeria, passport visas, agreement with France ...

Assistance, Economic. See Economic Aid ;

Economic Cooperation ; Mutual Aid Settlement Agreements .

2420 Austria :

2803 2362 2322

Passport visa fees ..... Publications , official, exchange of-----Relief supplies and packages, duty-free
entry, payment of transportation charges on....

2710 Aviation :

Air force liaison officers, U. S. , agree-

2737

ment with Mexico ....

2740 2434 2420
2584

Allied High Commission, Western Ger-

man Zones of Occupation, establish-

ment, functions ..

2818, 2821

Occupation Statute, declaration con-

cerning entry into force ..

2836

Amazon Road. See Aripo Road.

American Dead in World War II, Inter-

ment or Removal, modification of

agreement of June 6, July 23, 1947 ,

Belgium....

2674

American Voluntary Relief Agencies, op-

erations under Foreign Assistance Act

of 1948, Greece . __

2380-2384

Andorra, passport visas, agreement with

France....

2737

Anthropological Programs :
Mexico .. Peru .....

Research,

Cooperative

2642 2634

Argentia, Newfoundland, Military Air Base at, use by civil aircraft, agreement with Canada.......

2486

Air force missions, agreements withColombia...

2345

Ecuador. Haiti ...

2543 2311

Air search and rescue operations,

Canada

2328

Air transport services, agreements

with-

Burma...

2716

Canada

2489

Dominican Republic ..

2615

Finland ---

2550,

Korea, provisional agreement .. Panama...

2713 2450

Switzerland____

2437

Albrook Air Force Base, utilization of, agreement with Panama.... 2468, 2471

Leased Naval and Air Base Agreement,

Mar. 27, 1941, modification re-

specting Trinidad, agreement with

United Kingdom ....

2723

CXCVII

CXCVIII

INDEX

Aviation-Continued

Page Brazil :

Page

Military air bases in Newfoundland, use by civil aircraft, agreement with Canada___.

2486

Cooperative programsHealth and sanitation ...--Vocational industrial education ...

2777 2857

Aviation Mission, Civil, provisions in

agreement with Panama respect-

ing..

2458, 2478

"Awa Maru" Claim, Settlement of, agree-

ment with Japan ...

2397

Trade, most-favored-nation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin.......
Burma : Air transport services .. Educational Foundation, U. S. , amend-

2795 2716

ment of agreement of Dec. 22,

B

1947

2704

Baden. See Wuerttemberg - Baden Plebiscite.

International Rice Commission, con-

stitution___ .

2533

Bases : C
Albrook air force base, utilization of,

agreement with Panama_____ 2468, 2471 Cable, Communications, for use in air

Newfoundland, military air bases in, use by civil aircraft, agreement with Canada__

transport service, provisions in agree-

ment with Panama ..

2459, 2471

2486 Cables, Trinidad and Tobago, Easements

Philippines, military bases agreement, 1947, extension of period for occupation of temporary quarters and installations____
Trinidad, modification of Base Lease

2670

for, provisions in agreement with United Kingdom .... Canada :
Air search and rescue operations____ Air transport services ...

2727
2328 2489

Agreement, Mar. 27, 1941 , agreement with United Kingdom ..... 2723

Joint Industrial Mobilization Com-

mittee ...

2331

Belgium : American dead in World War II, inter-

Military air bases in Newfoundland,

use by civil aircraft....

2486

ment or removal, modification of agreement of June 6, July 23, 1947...

2674

Trade, most-favored-nation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin......
War accounts and claims, settlement of.

2795 2432

Surplus property settlement, amendment of agreement of Sept. 24, 1946____
Trade, most-favored-nation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin ...

Canal Zone, Panama, utilization of Tocumen National Airport.---.
2837 Canpay Program, settlement respecting, provisions in agreement with Canada.
2795 Carlsen Field, Trinidad , use of, provisions

2450 2432

Berlin, Agreements Respecting : Blockade, termination of, multilateral. Western sectors-

2410

Trade, application of most-favored-

nation treatment to..

2795

Tripartite controls, provisions respecting...
Beverages, Alcoholic (See also Alcoholic

2823

Liquors) , exclusion from relief goods, provisions in agreement with Free Territory of Trieste, British/U. S. Zone____

2710

Bizonal Area of Germany, agreements

respecting economic fusion, United

Kingdom....

2630, 2654

Blanchisseuse, Tobago, lease for com-

munication site, provisions in air

base agreement, United Kingdom ... 2727

Bogata Road. See Guanapo Road. Bolivia, health and sanitation program... 2787

Bonn Parliamentary Council, Germany,

in air base agreement with United

Kingdom.....

2727

Cemeteries for American War Dead,

modification of agreement of June 6,

July 23, 1947, Belgium ....

2674

Ceylon : International Rice Commission, stitution____

con-

2533

Publications, official, exchange of...

2356

Chacachacare Island, Trinidad, use for

naval and air bases, provisions in

agreement with United Kingdom. 2727, 2728

Chemicals, German industrial plants,

disposition of.

2902

China:

Economic aid agreement of July 3, 1948, amendment ..
Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruc-

2425

tion in China, extension of agree-

ment of Aug. 5, 1948 ...

2702

message from Foreign Ministers, U. S., U. K., France, respecting policy decisions ..

Churchill-Roosevelt Highway, Trinidad,

maintenance and use, provisions in

2825

agreement with United Kingdom...

2725

INDEX

CXCIX

Cigarettes, Cigars, Exclusion From Re- Pago Costa Rica, food production program, co-

lief Goods: Provisions in agreements with-
Austria ...

operative .....

Crete, training exercises in, marine units ,

2420

U. S. fleet in Mediterranean, agree-

Germany, French Zone of Occupation___
Greece ... Netherlands ..

ment with Greece ...

2803 Cuba, International Rice Commission,

2362

constitution___

2322 Cultural Cooperation, United States-

Trieste, Free Territory of, British/

U. S. Zone _-_ - _.

2710

Mexican Commission on, establishment, Mexico_____

Civil Aeronautics Board :

Cultural Exchange, U. S. Commission

Aeronautical authority provisions in agreements with--

for, establishment, agreement with Iran .

Burma... Canada Finland ... Panama...

2716 2489 2550 2463

Customs Formalities, Exemption From, provisions in air search and rescue operations agreement, Canada .......

Rate agreements, approval-- Canada Finland ..

2495 2556

Switzerland____.

2442

Civil Aviation Mission, provisions in

agreement with Panama respecting-- 2458, 2478

Civil Aviation Organization, International. See International Civil Aviation Organization.
Claims, Settlement of:

Agreements with-

Belgium, amendment of agreement

of Sept. 24, 1946

2837

Canada ..

2432

Ethiopia France Italy-
Italian prisoners of war .

2446 2499, 2507
2602

Property of U. S. nationals , appli-

cation of Treaty of Peace . 2415, 2416

Japan, Awa Maru____

2397

Trinidad and Tobago, leased naval and air bases in, provisions in agreement with United Kingdom____.

2727

D
Defence, Permanent Joint Board, U. S.Canada, Cooperation With :
Air search and rescue operations . Joint Industrial Mobilization Com-
mittee ... Demerara Road , Trinidad, maintenance as
public main road , provisions in agreement with United Kingdom .. Denmark, publications, official, exchange of... Dominican Republic : Air transport services___. Trade, most-favored-nation treatment
to Western sectors of Berlin______ Duty-Free Entry, Relief Supplies and
Packages : Agreements with--
Austria
Germany, French Zone of Occupation Greece.. Netherlands__ Trieste, Free Territory of, British/
U. S. Zone____

Western Zones in Germany, claims against, multilateral agreement ...
Clothing, Luxury, exclusion from relief goods, provisions in agreement with Free Territory of Trieste , British/ U. S. Zone..........

2823 2710

E
Eastern Main Road, Waller Field, Trinidad, control of, provisions in agreement with United Kingdom ...
ECA. See Economic Cooperation Ad-

Colombia:

ministration .

Air force mission

2345 Economic Aid Agreement, July 3, 1948,

Army mission____

2334

amendment, China ..

Health and sanitation program , CO-

Economic and Financial Relations, inter-

operative. ___ Publications , official, exchange of...

2760 2799

pretation of agreement Aug. 14, 1947, Italy..

"Colombie", Hospital Equipment In-

Economic Cooperation Administration,

stalled in, waiver of claims , provi-

Qualified Agencies Under, Shipment

visions in agreement with France . Commodity Credit Corporation, U. S.,
claims and accounts, settlement of, provisions in agreement with France .

2510 2511

of Relief Supplies and Packages to: Austria..
Germany, French Zone of Occupation . Greece

Page 2757 2683 2533 2842 2685 2328
2328 2331 2725 2680 2615 2795
2420 2802 2359 2322 2709
2725
2425 2415
2420 2802 2359

CC

INDEX

Economic Cooperation Administration, Etc. -Continued
Netherlands ..........

Trieste, Free Territory of, British/U. S. Zone___.

Economic Cooperation Agreements, Effectuation :
Austria___

Germany, French Zone of Occupation . Greece... Netherlands ... Ecuador : Air force mission___ Health and sanitation program...-------International Rice Commission, con-
stitution ... Naval mission___

Education, Cooperative Program of: Brazil, vocational industrial_ Guatemala Panama..

Paraguay ... Peru____.

Educational Commission, U. S. , estab-

lishment, United Kingdom . - Educational Foundation, Inc., Inter-
American. See Institute of InterAmerican Affairs.

Educational Foundation, U. S., Establishment :
Burma ..

Netherlands . New Zealand ..

Norway... Egypt, International
constitution .. Eire. See Ireland.

Rice

Commission,

Ethiopia, mutual aid settlement ..

F
Federal Republic of Germany. See under Germany.
Ferrous Scrap for Export, allocation of, amendment of agreement of Sept. 30, 1948, United Kingdom____
Financial and Economic Relations, interpretation of agreement of Aug. 14, 1947, Italy...--
Financial Claims and Accounts, agreement with France ..
Finland, air transport services .... Flagstaff Hill, Tobago, lease for communi-
cation site, provisions in air base agreement, United Kingdom_____ Fleet, U. S., in Mediterranean, Marine Units, Training Exercises, agreement with Greece ...

Page | Food and Agriculture Organization, United Page Nations, constitution of Interna-

2322

tional Rice Commission _...

2533

2709

Food Production Costa Rica_ Haiti... Peru ....

Program,

Cooperative :

2757 2911 2747

2420 2802 2359 2322

Foreign Assistance Act of 1948, opera-

tions of American Voluntary Relief

Agencies, provisions in agreement

with Greece ___

2380-2384

Foster, Dr. George M., Jr., detailed by

2543

Smithsonian Institution for anthro-

2790

pological research in Mexico____.

France :

2533 Claims, settlement of-

2547

Financial claims and accounts .-----

2857 2838

Maritime claims and litigation .......... -Germany, agreements respecting-
Berlin blockade, removal of restric-

2908

tions on communications, trans-

2744

portation, trade ..........

2879

German industrial plants, disposition.

Gold, monetary, restitution to Po-

2413

land ..

Trade, most-favored-nation treat-

ment to Western sectors of

Berlin.....

2650
2507 2499
2410 2901 2677
2795

Trizonal fusion, Western Zones of

2704 2559 2407

Occupation, basic principles ---International Rice Commission, con-
stitution Passport visa fees ..

2817
2533 2737

2764 Free Territory of Trieste. See Trieste, Free Territory of.

2533 French Zone of Occupation of Germany. See Germany.

2446 Frigates and Icebreakers, return to U. S., agreement with Union of Soviet Socialist Republics .............

2810

Fulbright Act. See Surplus Property Act of 1944.

Furs, Clothes Made With Furs and Skins,

exclusion from relief goods, provi-

2628

sions in agreement with Free Territory of Trieste, British/U. S. Zone. 2710

Fusion, Economic, Western German

2415

Zones of Occupation : Bizonal, U. S., U. K. , extension of

2507 2550

agreement of Dec. 2, 1946. 2630, 2654

Trizonal, U. S. , U. K. , French, basic

principles ...

2817

2727 2683

G
Gander Airfield, Newfoundland, use of base at Stephenville in lieu of, agreement with Canada...

2486

INDEX

CCI

Germany :

Page

H

Page

Berlin blockade, removal of restrictions on communications, transportation, trade, multilateral...

2410

Federal Republic of GermanyOccupation Statute__

2819, 2836

Powers, U. S., U. K. , French govern-

ments, principles governing ex-

ercise of....

2818

Ferrous scrap exports, allocation of, de-

cisions by U. S. and U. K. Military

Governors

2628

Fusion, Western Zones of OccupationBizonal, U. S., U. K. , extension of agreement of Dec. 2, 1946. 2630, 2654

Trizonal, basic principles, U. S., U. K., France_-_-
Gold, monetary, restitution to Poland. Industrial plants, German, disposition
of, multilateral.. Confirmation and approval of agree-
ment, U. S., U. K., French For-

2817 2677
2901

Haiti :

Air force mission ..

2311

Cooperative programs Food production .. Health and sanitation___
Naval mission_____

2911 2706 J 2386

Health and Sanitation, Cooperative

Programs : Bolivia..

2787

Brazil.

2777

Colombia ..

2760

Ecuador..

2790

Haiti ..

2706

Honduras

2729

Mexico ...

2848

Peru___.

2855

Venezuela ..

2695, 2781

Honduras, health and sanitation program,

cooperative _.--

2729

Humphrey Committee, German industrial

plants listed by, disposition of... ...... 2902

eign Ministers ..

2817

I

Relief supplies and packages for French Zone of Occupation, duty-free entry, payment of transportation charges on...
Trade, application of most-favorednation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin, multilateral___.
Gloves, Exclusion From Relief Goods, provisions in agreement with Free Territory of Trieste, British/U.S. Zone_____
Gold, Monetary, restitution to Poland, multilateral_
Great Britain. See United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Greece : Marine units, U. S. fleet in Mediterranean, training exercises.

ICAO. See International Civil Aviation

Organization .

2802 Icebreakers and Frigates, return to U. S., agreement with Union of Soviet Socialist Republics - - -

2795 Immigration Formalities, Exemption From, provisions in air search and rescue operations agreement, Canada___

Import Restrictions, Quantitative, and

2710 2677

Deferment of of agreement Sweden ... India:

Payments, extension of June 24, 1947,

International Rice Commission, constitution ...

Trade, most-favored-nation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin ...............
2683 Industrial Education, Vocational, Co-

2810 2328
2612 2533 2795

Passport visa fees ....

2905

operative program, Brazil ..

2857

Relief supplies and packages, duty-free entry, payment of transportation charges on....
Guadeloupe, passport visas, agreement with France__.

Industrial Mobilization Committee, Joint,

Canada____

2331

2359 Industrial Plants, German, disposition of,

multilateral____

2901, 2817

2737 Institute of Inter-American Affairs:

Guanapo Road, Waller Field, Trinidad, maintenance and use, provisions in
agreement with United Kingdom.. Guatemala, educational program, coop-
erative _.__.
Guiana, passport visas, agreement with France ...

2725 2838 2737

Agricultural program, cooperative , Paraguay ...
Educational program, cooperativeBrazil , vocational industrial _ . Guatemala . Panama
Paraguay .. Peru ...

2889
2857 2838 2908 2744 2879



INDEX

Institute of Inter-American Affairs- Con. Page Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction Page

Food production program, cooperativeCosta Rica.. Haiti ... Peru.....
Health and sanitation program, cooperation with-

2757 2911 2747

in China, extension of agreement of
Aug. 5, 1948 . Joint Export Import Agency (United States-
United Kingdom) , functions respecting economic fusion of American and British Zones of Occupation......

2702 2656

Bolivia..

2787 Joint Industrial Mobilization Committee,

Brazil..

2777

Canada..

2331

Colombia.. Ecuador..

2760

2790

K

Haiti Honduras .. Mexico... Peru ..... Venezuela .. Institute of Social Anthropology. under Smithsonian Institution.

2706
2729 2848 2855 2695, 2781 See

Kehl, Germany, administration of, multilateral agreement respecting ---
Knock-for-Knock Claims, Settlement of, provisions in agreement with France.
Korea, air transport services, provisional agreement ...

2823 2510 2713

Inter-American Affairs, Institute of. See

L

Institute of Inter-American Affairs. Inter-American Educational Foundation,
Inc. See Institute of Inter-American Affairs.

International Civil Aviation Organization:

Agreements, registrationBurma.. Canada.. Dominican Republic.. Finland .. Panama...

2718 2491 2620 2552 2455

Council, settlement of disputes, ad-

visory reportBurma...

2719

Canada ..

2492, 2496

Dominican Republic ...

2621

Finland ...

2553, 2557

Panama.. Switzerland ..

2456 2437, 2443

International Rice Commission, con-

stitution.___.

2533

Iran:

Cultural Exchange, U. S. Commission

for.....

2685

Military mission to, extension of agreement of Oct. 6, 1947-
Ireland, passport visa fees ... Italy:
Claims of Italian prisoners of war ----Financial and economic relations, in-

2430 2807
2602

terpretation of agreement of Aug.

14, 1947 .

2415

La Lune, Tobago, lease for communication

site, provisions in air base agreement, United Kingdom ... Leased Bases in Newfoundland, use by

2727

civil aircraft, agreement with Canada. 2486

Leased Naval and Air Base Agreement, Mar. 27, 1941, modification of application to Trinidad, agreement with United Kingdom ..

2723

Lend-Lease, Settlement for:

Agreements with-

Canada, refund to..

2432

Ethiopia..

2446

France....

2499, 2507

Soviet Socialist Republics, Union of,

return of icebreakers and frigates to U. S ... Library of Congress, Receiving Office for Official Publications :

2810

Provisions in agreements withAustria

2434

Ceylon.... Colombia...

2356 2799

Denmark..

2680

Liquors, Alcoholic. See Alcoholic Liquors. Litigation, Maritime Claims, agreement
with France ..

2499

Luxury Clothing, Etc., Exclusion From Relief Goods, provisions in agreement

with Free Territory of Trieste, Brit-

ish/U. S. Zone ..

2710

Treaty of Peace, application of...... 2416

M

International Rice Commission, con-

stitution_ .

2533 Maritime Claims and Litigation, France .

2499, 2507

Maritime Commission, U. S., claims and

Japan, Awa Maru claim, settlement of... 2397

accounts, settlement of, provisions in agreement with France ..... 2509, 2511

JEIA. See Joint Export Import Agency (United States-United Kingdom) .

Martinique, passport visas, agreement

with France ...

2737

INDEX

CCIII

Meteorological Observation Program, Cooperative, Mexico ...
Mexico :
Air force liaison officers , U. S .. Cooperative programs--
Anthropological research Health and sanitation .. Weather stations___
Cultural Cooperation, United StatesMexican Commission on ....
International Rice Commission, constitution
Military Air Bases in Newfoundland, use by civil aircraft, agreement with Canada
Military Aviation Mission. See Air force missions under Aviation.
Military Bases Agreement, Philippines, 1947, extension of period for occupation of temporary quarters and installations__
Military Governors, Western German Zones of Occupation :
Message from Foreign Ministers , U. S., U. K., France, views on Basic Law
U. S. and U. K. , functions respecting allocation of ferrous scrap exports .
Military Mission to Iran, Oct. 6, 1947, extension of agreement ----
Military Reservations, Transfer to Philippines ...
Missions. See Air force missions under
Aviation ; Army Mission ; Civil Aviation Mission ; Military Mission ; Naval Missions. Mobilization Committee, Joint Industrial, Canada
Monetary Gold, restitution to Poland, multilateral___
Monos and Chacachacare Islands, Trinidad, docksite to, easements for cables, provisions in agreement with United Kingdom -----
Morocco, passport visas, agreement with France...
Multilateral Agreements, Etc.: Berlin blockade, removal of restrictions on communications, transportation , trade . German industrial plants, disposition of. Gold, monetary, restitution to Poland . International Rice Commission, constitution __ Trade, most-favored-nation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin_____ Trizonal fusion, Western German Zones of Occupation, basic principles .
Munitions Board, Chairman, service on Joint Industrial Mobilization Committee, agreement with Canada____

Page | Mutual Aid, Office of, sale of U. S. surplus

2750

property in Belgium ....

Mutual Aid Settlement Agreements:

2584 Belgium, amendment of agreement of

2642 2848 2750

Sept. 24, 1946 .. Ethiopia .
N

National Security Resources Board, Chair-

2842

man, service on Joint Industrial

2533

Mobilization Committee, agreement with Canada..

2486

Naval and Air Bases, Leased, Trinidad, modification of agreement of Mar. 27, 1941 , United Kingdom ....
Naval Missions :

Ecuador ... Haiti____

Netherlands :

2670

Educational Foundation, U. S. , establishment ... ...... .

2824

Netherlands West Indies, participation in program.......
International Rice Commission , constitution__

2628 2430

Relief supplies and packages , duty-free entry and payment of transportation charges on ...
Trade, most-favored-nation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin .....

2660 New Zealand :

Educational Foundation, U. S. , amend-

ment of Sept. 14, 1948, agreement . Passport visa fees__ New Zealand Island Territories, passport

visas for U. S. citizens traveling to ..

2331 Newfoundland, military air bases in , use

2677

by civil aircraft, agreement with Canada ....

"Normandie", lien against, for damage to

cargo of S. S. Paris, waiver of claims ,

provisions in agreement with France .

2727 "North Wind" , return to U. S. , agreement

with Union of Soviet Socialist Re-

2737

publics ...

Norway :

Educational Foundation, U. S., estab-

lishment ...

2410 Trade, most-favored-nation treatment

2901

to Western sectors of Berlin______

2677 Nylon or Silk Textiles, Exclusion From

Relief Goods, provisions in agreement

2533

with Free Territory of Trieste,

2795

British/U. S. Zone____. 0

2817 Occupation Statute, Western German Zones, principles governing exercise of powers, multilateral_
2331 Entry into force, declaration concerning.

Page 2837 2837 2446
2331 2723 2547 2386 2559 2564 2533 2322 2795
2407 2538 2538 2486
2510 2810 2764 2795
2710
2819 2836

CCIV

INDEX

Occupation Zones in Germany. See Page

Page

Germany. OMA. See Mutual Aid , Office of.

Quinine Hydrochloride, Quinine Sulfate, limitation on inclusion in relief

P
Pakistan, International Rice Commission, constitution ........
Panama :
Air transport services___. Educational program, cooperative _ - _ t Passport visas___. Paraguay : Agricultural program, cooperative ............ Educational program, cooperative . Passport Visa Fees : Austria .... France_ Greece .. Ireland ... New Zealand____ Passport Visas, Panama... Patent Claims, Settlement of, provisions in
agreement with France ...Persia. See Iran. Peru :
Army mission____ Cooperative programs--
Anthropological research Education .... Food production --Health and sanitation _... Philippines : Hospitals, medical care, for Philippine
veterans .. International Rice Commission, con-
stitution _ - _Military reservations, transfer to -----
Executive orders, Torrens certificates of title, list of.......
Properties, list of___ Temporary quarters and installations,
occupation by U. S. armed forces_ Piarce Airport, Trinidad, easements for
cables, provisions in agreement with United Kingdom___ Poland, gold, monetary, restitution to---Pondikonisi, Island of, use for training exercises, marine units, U. S. fleet in Mediterranean, agreement with Greece ___ Prisoners of War, Italian, claims of.......... Publications, Official, Exchange of: Austria.. Ceylon ..... Colombia___. Denmark____

packages, provisions in agreement with Netherlands ....

2533

R

2450 Radiosonde Observation Stations, coop-

2908

erative program, Mexico_..

2899 Reciprocal Aid, Settlement for, agreement with Ethiopia.....

2889 Reconstruction Finance Corporation, U. S.,

2744

claims and accounts, settlement of,

provisions in agreement with France .

2740 2737 2905 2807 2538

Relief Supplies and Packages, Duty-Free Entry, Payment of Transportation Charges :
Agreements withAustria ...

2899

Germany, French Zone of Occupation ..

2510

Greece.. Netherlands ...

Trieste, Free Territory of, British/

2522

U. S. Zone_____

Reparations :

2634 2879 2747 2855

Gold, monetary, restitution to Poland, multilateral ...
Industrial plants, German, disposition of, multilateral____
Rescue Operations, Air Search, Canada__

2593
2533 2660
2663 2662

Réunion, passport visas , agreement with France..
Rice Commission, International, constitution.___.
Ruhr Authority, Establishment of, confirmation and approval of foreign ministers, U. S. , U. K., France -
Rural Reconstruction in China, Joint Commission on, extension of agree-

2670

ment of Aug. 5, 1948, China____.

Russia. See Soviet Socialist Republics ,

Union of.

2727

S

2677 Samoa, Western, Trust Territory of, pass-

port visas for U. S. citizens traveling to, agreement with New Zealand ....

2683 Sanitation. See Health and Sanitation,

2602

Cooperative Programs.

Scrap, Ferrous, for Export, allocation of,

2434

amendment of agreement of Sept.

2356

30, 1948, United Kingdom------

2799 Scrap and Salvage, U. S. surplus property

2680

in Belgium, sale of..........

2323
2750 2446 2511
2420 2802 2359 2322 2709 2677 2901 2328 2737 2533 2817 2702
2538
2628 2837

INDEX

CCV

Siam, International Rice Commission, Page Syria, trade, most-favored-nation treat- Page

constitution ...

2533

ment to Western sectors of Berlin ... 2795

Silk or Nylon Textiles, Exclusion From

Relief Goods, provisions in agreement

T

with Free Territory of Trieste, British/U. S. Zone_ Sino-American Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China, extension of agreement of Aug. 5, 1948-.-Smithsonian Institution:

2710 2702

Textiles, Silk or Nylon, Exclusion From Relief Goods, provisions in agree- 1

ment with Free Territory of Trieste,

British/U. S. Zone..

2710

Thailand. See Siam .

Exchange office for U. S. Government

Tobacco, Exclusion From Relief Goods :

publications, provisions in agree-

ments withAustria ...

.850 2 2434

Ceylon____ Colombia..

2356 2799

Provisions in agreements withAustria
Germany, French Zone of Occupation__
Greece ....

2420
2803 2362

Denmark..

2680

Netherlands . - -.

2322

Institute of Social Anthropology, co-

operative research programs withMexico .... Peru ....

2642 2634

Social Anthropology, Institute of. See under Smithsonian Institution.
"South Wind", return to U. S. , agreement with Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics Soviet Socialist Republics, Union of:
Berlin blockade, removal of restrictions on communications, transportation, trade...

2810 2410

Icebreakers and frigates, return to U.S.. 2810

Steel, German industrial plants, disposi-

tion of, multilateral___

__7_2902

Stephenville, Newfoundland, Military Air

Base at, use by civil aircraft, agree-

ment with Canada..

2486

Trieste, Free Territory of, British/ U. S. Zone_____
Tocumen National Airport, Panama, utilization for air transport services ...
Torbay Airfield, Newfoundland, use of base at Argentia in lieu of, agreement with Canada..........
Trade, Most- Favored- Nation Treatment, application to Western sectors of Berlin, multilateral___
Trieste, Free Territory of, British/U. S. Zone, relief supplies and packages, duty-free entry, payment of transportation charges on...
Trinidad and Tobago, provisions respecting, modification of Leased Naval and Air Base Agreement, Mar. 27, 1941 , United Kingdom ....

2710 2450 2487 2795
2709 > 2723

Streptomycin, limitation on inclusion in

relief packages, provisions in agree- 12

ment with Netherlands ..

2323

I

Surinam, Educational Foundation, U. S.,

participation in program, agreement

with Netherlands _-_.

2564

Tripartite Controls. See Allied High Commission, Western German Zones of Occupation.
Trizonal Fusion of Western German Zones of Occupation, basic principles for, France, United Kingdom__

2817

Surplus Property Act of 1944 : Educational activities, use of funds for Iran, cultural exchange..

Tunisia, passport visas, agreement with

France...

2737

2685

Netherlands .

2559

U

NorwaySurplus War Property, Settlement for :
Agreements with--

2764 Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. See
Soviet Socialist Republics, Union of.

Belgium, amendment of agreement of Sept. 24, 1946 ----
France ... Sweden, quantitative import restrictions

United Kingdom of Great Britain and

2837

Northern Ireland :

2512 Educational Commission, U. S. , es-

tablishment______

2413

and deferment of payments, extension of agreement of June 24, 1947____ Switzerland, air transport services__.

2612 2437

Ferrous scrap for export, allocation of, amendment of agreement of Sept. 30, 1948_

2628

CCVI

INDEX

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland- Continued
Germany, agreements respectingBerlin blockade, removal of restrictions on communications, trans-

Page

Vessels, icebreakers and frigates, return to U. S., agreement with Union of Soviet Socialist Republics .
Veterans, Philippine, hospitals and medical care.

Page 2810 2593

portation, trade ..........

2410

Fusion, economic, Western Zones of

OccupationBizonal, U. S. , U. K. , extension of

agreement of Dec. 2, 1946- 2630, 2654

Veterans' Administration, U. S.: Inspection and approval of hospital sites in Philippines - - Officers, etc. , in Philippines , privileges granted to.. .........

2595 2598

Trizonal, U. S. , U. K. , French, basic principles ----
German industrial plants, disposition of_---
Gold, monetary, restitution to Poland ...

2817 2901

Visas, Passport. See Passport Visa Fees ; Passport Visas.
Vocational Industrial Education, cooperative program, Brazil

2677

W

2857

Trade, most-favored-nation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin .........
International Rice Commission, constitution___.
Trinidad, leased naval and air bases in, modification of agreement of Mar. 27, 1941___
United Nations : Food and Agriculture Organization, constitution of International Rice Commission___
Trade, most-favored-nation treatment to Western sectors of Berlin, deposit of memorandum ..........
United States Commission for Cultural Exchange, establishment, Iran ...............

2795 2533 2723
2533 2796 2685

Waller Field, Trinidad, Use of, Provisions in Air Base Agreement With United Kingdom :
Easements for cables ..... Roads, maintenance and control of____ War Accounts and Claims, Settlement of,
agreement with Canada.........
War Shipping Administration, U. S., claims and accounts , settlement of, provisions in agreement with France.
War Supplies, Ltd., Program of, settlement of claims, provisions in agreement with Canada..
Weather Stations Program, Cooperative, Mexico ...
"West Wind", return to U. S. , agreement

2727 2725 2432
2511
2432 2750

United States Educational Commission,

with Union of Soviet Socialist Re-

establishment, United Kingdom_____ 2413

publics___

2810

United States Educational Foundation. See Educational Foundation, U. S. , Establishment .

Western German Zones of Occupation. See Germany.
Western Sectors of Berlin. See under

United States-Mexican Commission on Cultural Cooperation, establishment_

Berlin . 2842 World War II, Interment or Removal of
American Dead, modification of agree-

V

Venezuela, health and sanitation program,

cooperative ....- - .

2695, 2781

ment of June 6, July 23, 1947, Belgium..... Wuerttemberg-Baden Plebiscite, status of, multilateral agreement respecting.

2674 2823

86805385608680)

THE OSU COLLEGE OF LAW LIBRARY 3 2437 01094 0134

