This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

NNIS & CO., INC. aw Book Publishers 1 MAIN STP BUFFALO
BLLEITETNERCE KANGORIWCLULETDUGREE
LIBRARY ofthe OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY

UNITED STATES STATUTES AT LARGE
CONTAINING THE LAWS AND CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS ENACTED DURING THE SECOND SESSION OF THE
EIGHTIETH CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1948 AND
PROCLAMATIONS, TREATIES, AND INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES
COMPILED, EDITED, INDEXED, AND PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF LAW UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE
VOLUME 62 IN THREE PARTS
PART 3 INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS
OTHER THAN TREATIES
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1949

ER R v.62 pt.3 4 62
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents U. S. Government Printing Office , Washington 25, D. C.
Price $8.50 (Buckram)

CONTENTS

Page

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES_

V

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES¹

2613

INDEX_

CCIII

1 International agreements other than treaties are contained also in Part 2 of this Volume.
iii

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES CONTAINED IN PART 3 OF THIS VOLUME 1

Multilateral. German reparations, apportionment between India and Pakistan Multilateral. Caribbean Commission . Sweden. Quantitative import restrictions and deferment of payments.. Haiti. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Haiti .. Canada. Radio broadcastingYugoslavia. Claims .......... Venezuela. Civil aviation mission_. Multilateral. Restitution of gold looted by Germany and transferred to the Bank for Inter-
national Settlements ..
Multilateral. World Health Organization__. Brazil. Supplementing the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of Oct. 30, 1947 .. New Zealand. U. S. Educational Foundation in New Zealand
Argentina. Military advisory mission___ Philippines. War damages in the Philippines.. Paraguay. Cooperative education program in Paraguay. France and Australia. Marechal Joffre claims .. Portugal. Trade . Czechoslovakia. Mutual aid settlement .
Portugal. Economic cooperation Austria. Trade ...
Belgium. Trade . Denmark. Trade . France. Trade. Germany: French Zone of Occupation . Trade . Germany: U. S. and U. K. Zones of Occupation. Trade . Greece. Trade .. Iceland. Trade ,
Ireland. Trade_
Italy. Trade .. Lurembourg. Trade . Netherlands. Trade .
Norway. Trade. Sweden. Trade . Turkey. Trade .. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Trade China. Economic cooperation . China, Trade .
Philippines. Copyright___ France. Distribution and exhibition of American motion picture films in the French Union .
Ecuador. Military mission .. Philippines. Air transport services .. Trieste, British/ U. S. Zone. Economic cooperation Multilateral. Constitution of the International Refugee Organization_ Cuba. Cooperative program for weather stations in Cuba China, Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China_
Multilateral. Universal Postal Union ---
Korea. Initial financial and property settlement Paraguay. Cooperative education program in Paraguay. Belgium and Luxembourg. U. S. Educational Foundation in Belgium.
Philippines. Patents .. Italy. American Commission for Cultural Exchange with Italy .
Peru . Agricultural experiment station at Tingo María...... Italy. Passport visas .. Multilateral. Constitution of the International Labor Organization Instrument of Amend-
ment, 1946.

2

IN

Page
2613 2618 2647 2649 2652 2658 2666
2672 2679 2799 2802 2808 2819 2824 2841 2845 2850 2856 2876 2880 2883 2887 2891 2895 2899 2903 2910 2913 2917 2921 2924 2930 2934 2941 2945 2982 2996 3001 3018 3023 3026 3037 3134 3139 3157 3422 3447 3451 3461 3465 3474 3480
3485

IInternational agreements other than treaties are contained also in Part 2 of this Volume. V

vi

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

Mexico. Fisheries mission.. United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. U. S. Educational Commission in

the United Kingdom .... Peru. Cooperative food production program in Peru . France. Relief supplies and packages for France ... United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Allocations of ferrous scrap for

export ... Ecuador. Agricultural experiment station in Ecuador__
France. Military obligations of certain persons having dual nationality France. U. S. Educational Commission for France_.

Brazil. United

KiCnoogpdeormatoifveGrmeianterBrailtraeisnouarncdesNosrutrhveerynpIrroeglraandm.

inEBcroanziolm.ic

fusion

of

American

and

British zones of occupation in Germany .. Norway. Waiver of passport visas for American citizens proceeding to Spitsbergen, Jan
Mayen, and certain Norwegian dependencies .. Italy. Assistance to the people of Italy .. Multilateral. Application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas of Western Germany
under occupation or control__ Multilateral. Protocol for the accession of signatories of the Final Act of Oct. 30, 1947, Gen-
eral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade____.

Multilateral. Second protocol of rectifications to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of Oct. 30, 1947 ..
Multilateral. Protocol modifying part II and article XXVI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of Oct. 30, 1947--
Belgium. Passport visas_. Multilateral. Establishment of the Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council. Canada. Control of exports of potatoes from Canada to the United States . France. Economic cooperation___. United Nations. Loan for construction and furnishing of the headquarters of the United
Nations__

Italy. Air transport services_.
Luxembourg. Economic cooperation .... Denmark. Economic cooperation ... Chile. Air transport services ..
Belgium. Economic cooperation . Korea. Economic cooperation .

031

!!!!!!!! 1140

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Relief supplies and packages for the United Kingdom ..

Philippines. U. S. Educational Foundation in the Philippines_ Italy. Relief supplies and packages for Italy . Italy. Economic cooperation .. Korea. Military and security measures_
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Passport visa fees.. France. Mutual aid settlement .. Brazil. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Brazil .
Iran. U. S. military mission with the Imperial Iranian Gendarmerie Panama. Passport visa fees ....

Italy. Procedure for final settlement of claims of Italian prisoners-of-war. U.S./U. K. Occupied Areas in Germany. Relief supplies and packages for U. S./U. K. occu-
pied areas in Germany .. Peru. Cooperative educational program in Peru ...
Philippines. Naval charter for lease of vessels to the Philippines .. Colombia. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia.. Canada . Communication system..

Mexico. Temporary migration of Mexican agricultural workersHonduras. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras Canada. Transfer of defense installations and equipment . - -

Costa Rica. Cooperative food production program in Costa Rica..

Bolivia. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Bolivia .. Guatemala. Inter-American Highway..
Ecuador. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Ecuador . Liberia. Passport visas___ Panama. Colón Corridor .

Iceland. Passport visas .. Canada. Flights of military aircraft . Haiti. Cooperative food production program in Haiti . Mexico. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Mexico . Belgium. Mutual aid settlement -...
Luxembourg. Mutual aid settlement..
Luxembourg. Waiver of certain claims .. Guatemala . Cooperative educational program in Guatemala . Haiti. Cooperative food production program in Haiti __Guatemala. Cooperative education program in Guatemala. Multilateral. Machinery of control in Austria.....

Page 3575
3577 3584 3587
3598 3605 3621 3625 3636
3645
3649 3650
3653
3663
3671
3679 3707 3711 3717 3720
3725 3729 3750 3753 3755 3776 3780
3798 3805 3809 3815 3817 3824 3826 3831 3843 3848 3853
3860 3866 3870 3880 3883 3887 3904 3912 3916 3920 3923 3927 3930 3933 3941 3943 3950 3978 3984 4003 4006 4008 4029 4032 4036

LIST OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES
France. Coal exports from the three Western Zones of Germany. Denmark. Passport visa fees . _ _. Spain. Restitution of monetary gold looted by Germany. Italy. Air service facilities in Italy. Spain. Air transport services.. Spain. Air transport services.. Panama. Cooperative education program in Panama.. France. Air service facilities_____ Uruguay. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Uruguay. Uruguay. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Uruguay . Uruguay. Cooperative health and sanitation program in Uruguay

vii
Page 4064 4068 4071 4074 4078 4081 4084 4102 4108 4117 4128

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES
68706-52- PT. III- -1

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

SECOND SESSION OF THE EIGHTIETH CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, January 6 , 1948 , and adjourned sine die on Friday, December 31 , 1948
HARRY S. TRUMAN , President ; ARTHUR H. VANDENBERG , President of the Senate pro tempore; JOSEPH W. MARTIN, Jr. , Speaker of the House of Representatives.

Protocol between the United States of America and other governments respecting the apportionment of shares between India and Pakistan under the Paris agreement of January 14 , 1946, on distribution of reparation from Germany, the establishment of an Inter-Allied Reparation Agency, and the restitution of monetary gold . Signed at Brussels March 15, 1948; effective from January 24, 1946.

March 15,1948 [T. I. A. S. 1797]

PROTOCOLE ADDITIONNEL À L'ACCORD DE PARIS DU 14 JANVIER 1946 CONCERNANT
LES RÉPARATIONS À RECEVOIR DE L'ALLEMAGNE , L'INSTITUTION D'UNE AGENCE INTERALLIÉE ET LA RESTITUTION DE L'OR MONÉTAIRE .
PROTOCOL ATTACHED TO THE PARIS AGREEMENT OF 14 JANUARY 1946 ON
REPARATION FROM GERMANY, ON THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF AN INTER ALLIED REPARATION AGENCY AND ON THE RESTITUTION OF MONETARY GOLD
2613

2614

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Les Gouvernements de l'Albanie, des États-Unis d'Amérique , de

l'Australie, de la Belgique , du Canada, du Danemark, de l'Égypte, de

la France, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord ,

de la Grèce, de l'Inde , du Luxembourg, de la Norvège, de la Nouvelle-

Zélande, des Pays-Bas, de la Tchécoslovaquie , de l'Union de l'Afrique

du Sud, de la Yougoslavie, ayant pris note de l'arrangement du 22 janvier 1948 par lequel les Gouvernements du Dominion de l'Inde et du

Dominion du Pakistan se sont entendus sur la répartition suivante des quotes-parts de réparations attribuées au Gouvernement de l'Inde en

vertu de l'article 1 B de l'Accord de Paris du 14 janvier 1946 :

INDE PAKISTAN

· Catégorie A : 1.65 Catégorie A : 0.35

Catégorie B : 2.39 Catégorie B : 0.51

Ayant pris note de l'Accord intervenu entre le Gouvernement du Dominion de l'Inde et le Gouvernement du Dominion du Pakistan, aux

termes duquel le montant des biens de réparation de la catégorie B attribués au Gouvernement de l'Inde jusqu'à la date du 14 août incluse, et évalués, sous réserve de modifications d'ordre comptable par l'Agence

Interalliée des Réparations, qui pourraient devenir nécessaires , à RM

10.900.000, sera considéré comme réparti de la manière suivante :

DOMINION DE L'INDE . DOMINION DU PAKISTAN

RM 8.983. 000 1. 917.000

étant entendu que la répartition ci -dessus pourra faire l'objet d'ajustements décidés par accord mutuel entre les Gouvernements des Dominions de l'Inde et du Pakistan ;
Ayant pris note de l'accord intervenu entre le Gouvernement du Dominion de l'Inde et le Gouvernement du Dominion du Pakistan, aux termes duquel le montant des biens de réparation de la catégorie B attribués au Gouvernement de l'Inde entre le 15 août 1947 et le 22

janvier 1948 , et évalués, sous réserve de modifications d'ordre comptable par l'Agence Interalliée des Réparations, qui pourraient devenir nécessaires , à RM 1.068.000 , sera considéré comme ayant été attribué au Gouvernement du Dominion de l'Inde , étant entendu que l'attribution ci-dessus pourra faire l'objet d'ajustements décidés par accord mutuel entre les Gouvernements des Dominions de l'Inde et du Pakistan,
Sont convenus de ce qui suit :

DU FAIT DE LA SIGNATURE DU PRÉSENT PROTOCOLE PAR LES GOUVERNEMENTS SIGNATAIRES DE L'ACCORD DE PARIS ET PAR LE GOUVERNEMENT

DU DOMINION DU PAKISTAN , LA QUALITÉ DE GOUVERNEMENT SIGNATAIRE DE L'ACCORD DE PARIS, AVEC TOUS LES DROITS ET OBLIGATIONS Y AFFÉRENTS, EST RECONNUE, A COMPTER DE LA DATE D'ENTRÉE EN VIGUEUR

DUDIT ACCORD, AU GOUVERNEMENT DU PAKISTAN, QUI EST ÉGALEMENT CONSIDÉRÉ COMME AYANT ADHÉRÉ AUX RÉSOLUTIONS UNANIMES DE LA CONFÉRENCE DE PARIS SUR LES RÉPARATIONS. LES GOUVERNEMENTS DU DOMINION DE L'INDE ET DU DOMINION DU PAKISTAN ONT RESPECTIVE-

MENT DROIT AUX QUOTES-PARTS DE RÉPARATION SUIVANTES :

INDE

CATÉGORIE A : 1,65

PAKISTAN · · · CATÉGORIE A : 0,35

CATÉGORIE B : 2,39 CATÉGORIE B : 0,51

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- REPARATION TO INDIA AND PAKISTAN-MAR. 15, 1948 2615

The Governments of Albania, United States of America, Australia, repAaprpaotritoinopnemrecnetntagoef

Belgium , Canada, Denmark, Egypt, France, United Kingdom of Great shares. Britain and Northern Ireland , Greece, India, Luxemburg, Norway,

New Zealand, Netherlands, Czechoslowakia, Union of South Africa

and Yugoslavia, having taken note of the Arrangement of 22 January 1948 under which the Governments of the Dominion of India and the

Dominion of Pakistan have agreed to the apportionment between them,

in the following manner, of the reparation percentage shares allotted

to the Governments of India under Article 1 B of the Paris Agreement 61 Stat . Pt . 3

of 14 January 1946 :

p. 3158.

INDIA PAKISTAN

Category A: 1.65 Category A: 0.35

Category B : 2.39 Category B : 0.51

Having noted that the Government of the Dominion of India and the Government of the Dominion of Pakistan have agreed that the value of Reparation assets in Category B allocated to the Government of

Valuation ofreparation assets in Cate-
gory B.

India up to and including 14 August 1947, and amounting, subject to

such accounting adjustments by the Inter Allied Reparation Agency as may become necessary , to RM 10.900.000 will be considered to have

been apportioned in the following manner :

DOMINION OF INDIA .. DOMINION OF PAKISTAN ·

RM 8.983 . 000 1. 917. 000

it being understood that the above apportionment is susceptible of adjustment by mutual agreement between the Governments of the Dominions of India and Pakistan ;
Having noted that the Government of the Dominion of India and the Government of the Dominion of Pakistan have agreed that the value of Reparation Assets in Category B allocated to the Government of India between 15 August 1947 and 22 January 1948 and amounting, subject to such accounting adjustments by the Inter Allied Reparations Agency as may become necessary, to RM 1.068.000, will be considered to have been allocated to the Government of the Dominion of India, it being understood that the above allocation is susceptible of adjustment by mutual agreement between the Governments of the Dominions of India and Pakistan,

Have agreed as follows :

UPON THE SIGNATURE OF THE PRESENT PROTOCOL BY THE GOVERN-

Pakistan deemed a government signatory

MENTS SIGNATORIES OF THE PARIS AGREEMENT AND BY THE GOVERNMENT of Paris Agreement.

OFTHE DOMINION OF PAKISTAN, THE DOMINION OF PAKISTAN SHALL BE

DEEMED TO HAVE BEEN A GOVERNMENT SIGNATORY OF THE PARIS AGREEMENT, AS FROM THE DATE OF THE ENTRY INTO FORCE OF THE SAID AGREE-

Entry into force.

MENT, [ 1 ] WITH CORRESPONDING RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS, AND TO HAVE

ADHERED TO THE UNANIMOUS RESOLUTIONS OF THE PARIS CONFERENCE

ON REPARATION . THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE DOMINION OF INDIA AND

THE DOMINION OF PAKISTAN SHALL RESPECTIVELY BE ENTITLED TO

RECEIVE THE FOLLOWING REPARATION SHARES :

INDIA

· CATEGORY A : 1.65

·

PAKISTAN ... CATEGORY A : 0.35

CATEGORY B : 2.39 CATEGORY B : 0.51

'Entered into force Jan. 24, 1946.

2616

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES  [62 STAT.
En foi de quoi , les soussignés, dûment habilités par leurs Gouvernements respectifs, ont signé le 15 mars 1948 à Bruxelles le présent Protocole, en langue anglaise et française, les deux textes faisant également foi, en un seul exemplaire qui sera annexé à l'Accord de Paris et déposé dans les Archives du Gouvernement de la République française, lequel Gouvernement remettra à chacun des Gouvernements signataires une copie certifiée conforme de ce texte, et au Dominion du Pakistan une copie certifiée conforme de l'Accord de Paris.

Authentic texts.

In witness thereof, the undersigned, duly authorised by their respective Governments , have signed on March 15th 1948 in Brussels the present Protocol, in the English and French languages, the two texts being equally authentic, in a single original which shall be annexed to the Paris Agreement and deposited in the Archives of the Government of the French Republic , a certified copy thereof being furnished by that Government to each Signatory Government, and a certified copy of the Paris Agreement to the Government of the Dominion of Pakistan.

Pour l'Albanie, For Albania,
Pour les États-Unis d'Amérique, For United States of America, Pour l'Australie, For Australia,
Pour la Belgique, For Belgium, Pour le Canada, For Canada, Pour le Danemark, For Denmark,
Pour l'Égypte, For Egypt, Pour la France, For France,
Pour le Royaume-Uni de GrandeBretagne et d'Irlande du Nord,
For United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Pour la Grèce, For Greece, Pour l'Inde, For India, Pour le Luxembourg, For Luxemburg,

L. JOANIDHI . RUSSEL H. DORR. RONALD WALKER. RENÉ DIDISHEIM.
VICTOR DORE. BENT FALKENSTJERNE.
SEDDIK PACHA. JACQUES RUEFF.
DESMOND MORTON.
T. TRIANTAFYLLAKOS. R.-S. MANI. N. HOMMEL.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-REPARATION TO INDIA AND PAKISTAN-MAR. 15 , 1948 2617

Pour la Norvège, For Norway, Pour la Nouvelle -Zélande , For New Zealand , Pour le Pakistan, For Pakistan,
Pour les Pays-Bas, For Netherlands,
Pour la Tchécoslovaquie, For Czechoslovaquia, Pour l'Union de l'Afrique du Sud, For the Union of South Africa , Pour la Yougoslavie, For Yugoslavia,

THORE BOYE. DESMOND MORTON. HABIB I. RAHIMTOOLA. E.-A. LIEFRINCK.
CÉLESTIN SMIR. J.-K. CHRISTIE.
S. ORLIC.

La présente copie est certifiée conforme à l'exemplaire unique du Protocole Additionnel à l'Accord de Paris du 14 janvier 1946, con-

cernant les Réparations à recevoir de l'Allemagne, l'institution d'une

Agence Interalliée des Réparations et la restitution de l'Or monétaire. Rédigé en langue française et anglaise, signé à Bruxelles le 15 mars

1948 et déposé dans les Archives de la République française.

Le Ministre plénipotentiaire,

Chefdu Service du Protocole,

e

Js ACQUES DUMAINE. n

e

i

m

a

y

m

a

u

J

J

,

' Translation : The present copy is certified to conform to the single copy of the Protocol attached to the Paris Agreement of Jan. 14, 1946 on reparation from Germany, on the establishment of an Inter-Allied Reparation Agency, and on the restitution of monetary gold.
Written in the French and English languages , signed at Brussels on Mar. 15 , 1948, and deposited in the Archives of the French Republic.
Minister Plenipotentiary, Chief of the Protocol Service.
JACQUES DUMAINE. JACQUES DUMAINE.

2618

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

October 30, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1799]

Agreement between the United States of America, France, Netherlands, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting a Caribbean Commission . Opened for signature at Washington and signed on behalf of the member governments October 30, 1946; entered into force August 6, 1948.
AN AGREEMENT
FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CARIBBEAN COMMISSION

Principles of agreement.

The GOVERNMENTS of the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, the FRENCH

REPUBLIC , the KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS, and the UNITED

KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND, whose duly

authorized representatives have subscribed hereto, Being desirous of encouraging and strengthening cooperation among

themselves and their territories with a view toward improving the

economic and social well-being of the peoples of those territories, and

Being desirous of promoting scientific, technological, and economic

development in the Caribbean area and facilitating the use of re-

sources and concerted treatment of mutual problems, avoiding duplication in the work of existing research agencies, surveying needs, as-

certaining what research has been done, facilitating research on a

cooperative basis, and recommending further research , and

Having decided to associate themselves in the work heretofore

undertaken by the Anglo-American Caribbean Commission , and

59 Stat. 1031.

Having agreed that the objectives herein set forth are in accord with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations
Hereby agree as follows:

Article I

Establishment of the Caribbean Commission and Auxiliary Bodies
There are hereby established the Caribbean Commission (hereinafter referred to as "the Commission " ) and, as auxiliary bodies of the Commission , the Caribbean Research Council and the West Indian Conference (hereinafter referred to as "the Research Council" and "the Conference" respectively) .

Article II

Composition of the Commission
1. The Commission shall consist of not more than sixteen Commissioners appointed by the Governments signatory hereto (hereinafter referred to as the "Member Governments") . Each Member Government may appoint four Commissioners and such alternates as it may deem necessary. Each such group of Commissioners shall form a national section of the Commission .

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION-OCT. 30, 1946
2. Each Member Government shall designate one of its Commissioners to be the Chairman of its national section . Each such Chairman, or in his absence, the Commissioner designated by him from his national section as his alternate, shall be a Co-Chairman of the Commission and shall preside over meetings of the Commission in rotation according to English alphabetical order of the Member Governments, irrespective of where a meeting of the Commission may be held.
Article III
Powers of the Commission
The Commission shall be a consultative and advisory body and shall have such legal capacity as may be necessary for the exercise of its functions and the fulfilment of its purposes .
Article IV
Functions of the Commission
The functions of the Commission shall be as follows:
(1 ) To concern itself with economic and social matters of common interest to the Caribbean area particularly agriculture, communications, education, fisheries, health, housing, industry, labor , social welfare and trade.
(2) To study, formulate and recommend on its own initiative, or as may be proposed by any of the Member or territorial Governments, by the Research Council or the Conference, measures , programs and policies with respect to social and economic problems designed to contribute to the well-being of the Caribbean area . It shall advise the Member and territorial Governments on all such matters, and make recommendations for the carrying into effect of all action necessary or desirable in this connection.
(3) To assist in co-ordinating local projects which have regional significance and to provide technical guidance from a wide field not otherwise available.
(4) To direct and review the activities of the Research Council and to formulate its rules of procedure.
(5) To provide for the convening of the sessions of the Conference, to formulate its rules of procedure, and to report to the Member Governments on Conference resolutions and recommendations .
Article V
Meetings of the Commission
1. The Commission shall hold not less than two Commission meetings each year. It is empowered to convene and hold meetings at any time and at any place it may decide.
2. At all such meetings the four Co-Chairmen , or their designated alternates, shall constitute a quorum .
68706-52- PT. III-------2


2619

2620

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article VI

Method of Arriving at Decisions
The Commission shall be empowered to determine the method of arriving at its decisions, providing that decisions other than those relating to procedure shall not be taken without the concurrence of the respective Co -Chairmen or their designated alternates.
Article VII

The Research Council

The Research Council, together with such Research Committees as the Commission may establish, shall serve as an auxiliary body of the Commission with respect to scientific , technological, social and economic research for the benefit of the peoples of the Caribbean area .
Article VIII

Composition of the Research Council

1. The Research Council shall consist of not less than seven and

not more than fifteen members who shall be appointed by the Com-

mission having special regard to their scientific competence. At least one member of each Research Committee shall be a member of the Research Council.
2. The Research Council shall elect a Chairman from among its

members . A Deputy Chairman of the Research Council shall be

appointed by the Commission and shall serve on the Central

Secretariat.

Effective date of

Council.

3. The present composition of the Research Council and of its

Research Committees shall be deemed to be effective from the 1st

day of January, 1946 .

Article IX

Functions of the Research Council
The functions of the Research Council shall be:
(a) To recommend to the Commission the number and functions of the technical Research Committees necessary to provide specialized scientific consideration of Caribbean research problems.
(b) In the interest of the Caribbean area to ascertain what research has been done, to survey needs, to advise concerning desirable research projects, to arrange and facilitate cooperative research , to undertake research assignments of a special nature which no other agency is able and willing to carry out, and to collect and disseminate information concerning research.
(c) To recommend to the Commission the holding of Research Council and Committee meetings and also of meetings of scientific, specialist and extension workers, and to facilitate an interchange of experience among the research workers of the Caribbean.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION--OCT. 30, 1946

2621

Article X

The Conference

The Conference shall be an auxiliary body of the Commission .
The continuity of its existence shall be ensured by means of regular sessions.
Article XI

Composition of the Conference

1. Each territorial government shall be entitled to send to each session of the Conference not more than two delegates and as many

advisers as it may consider necessary .

2. Delegates to the Conference shall be appointed for each territory in accordance with its constitutional procedure. The duration of their appointments shall be determined by the appointing governments.
Article XII

Duration of appoint ments.

Functions of the Conference

The sessions of the Conference shall provide a regular means of

consultation with and between the delegates from the territories on matters of common interest within the terms of reference of the Com-

mission as described in Article IV hereof, and shall afford the oppor-

tunity to present to the Commission recommendations on such

matters.

Article XIII

Ante, p. 2619.

Meetings of the Conference

1. The Commission shall convene the Conference at least biennially, on such date as the Commission shall decide . The location of each session of the Conference, which shall be in one of the territories, shall be selected in rotation according to English alphabetical order of the Member Governments .
2. The Chairman of each session of the Conference shall be the Chairman of the national section of the Commission in whose territory the session is held.
Article XIV

Chairman.

Central Secretariat

1. The Commission shall establish, at a place within the Caribbean

area to be agreed upon by the Member Governments, a Central

Secretariat to serve the Commission and its auxiliary bodies. 2. A Secretary-General and a Deputy Secretary-General shall be
appointed by the Commission under such terms and conditions as it

Appointment of Sec retary- General, etc.

shall prescribe. On the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of Sec-

retary-General the position shall not be filled, except for special

reasons approved by the Commission, by a candidate of the same

nationality as the outgoing Secretary-General, regard being had to

the desirability of continuity in the administration of the Commission's business. It shall, however, be open to the Commission at its

2622

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

discretion to reappoint any Secretary-General for a further term . The Secretary-General shall be the chief administrative officer of the

Commission and shall carry out all directives of the Commission .

Responsibilities of

Secretary- General.

3. The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the proper func-

tioning of the Central Secretariat and shall be empowered , subject to

such directions as he may receive from the Commission , to appoint and dismiss such staff as may be deemed necessary to ensure efficient conduct of Commission business, provided that the appointment and

dismissal of the Assistants to the Secretary-General shall be subject to approval by the Commission.

4. In the appointment of the Secretary-General, officers and staff

of the Central Secretariat, primary consideration shall be given to the technical qualifications and personal integrity of candidates and, to the extent possible consistent with this consideration, such officers and staff shall be recruited within the Caribbean area and with a

view to obtaining a balanced national representation.

5. In the performance of their duties, the Secretary-General and the staff shall not seek, receive or observe instructions from any government or from any other authority external to the Commission .

They shall refrain from any action which might reflect on their position as international officials responsible only to the Commission.

6. Each Member Government undertakes to respect the exclusively international character of the responsibilities of the Secretary-General

and the staff and not to seek to influence them in the discharge of their

responsibilities .

Privileges and im-

munities.

7. Each Member Government undertakes so far as possible under

its constitutional procedure to accord to the Secretary-General and

appropriate personnel of the Central Secretariat such privileges and

immunities as are necessary for the independent exercise of their functions, including inviolability of premises and archives of the Central Secretariat. The Commission shall make recommendations

with a view to determining the details of the application of this paragraph, or may propose conventions to the Member Governments for this purpose.
Article XV

Finances

1. The salaries , allowances and miscellaneous expenditures of the Commissioners and their staffs, and of delegates and advisers to conferences, shall be determined and paid by the respective governments appointing them. Annual budget, etc. 2. The Secretary-General shall prepare and submit to the Commission an annual budget and such supplementary budgets as may be required covering all other expenditures of the Commission , including those of the Research Council , the Conference, the Central Secretariat, special research projects, conferences, surveys and other similar activities under Commission auspices . Upon approval of the budget by the Commission, the total amount thereof shall be allocated among the Member Governments in proportions to be determined by agreeCoJmominitssfiunodn.for use of ment . A joint fund shall be established by the Member Governments for the use of the Commission in meeting the expenditures estimated

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - CARIBBEAN COMMISSION--OCT. 30, 1946

2623

in the said annual or supplementary budgets . Each Member Government shall undertake, subject to the requirements of its constitutional procedure, to contribute promptly to this fund such annual and supplementary sums as may be charged to each as agreed .
3. The fiscal year of the Commission shall be the calendar year. The first budget of the Commission shall cover the period from the date of the entry into force of this Agreement to and including the 31st day of December, 1946 .
4. The Secretary-General shall hold and administer the joint fund of the Commission and shall keep proper accounts thereof. The Commission shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Member Governments for the audit of its accounts . The audited statements shall be forwarded annually to each Member Government.

Budgetary period. Audit ofaccounts.

Article XVI

Authority to Appoint Committees and Make Regulations

The Commission is hereby empowered to appoint committees, and subject to the provisions of this Agreement, to promulgate rules of procedure and regulations governing the operations of the Commission, its auxiliary bodies, the Central Secretariat, and such committees as it shall establish , and generally for the purpose of carrying into effect the terms of this Agreement.

Article XVII

Relationship with Non-Member Governments in the Area

The Commission and Research Council in their research projects and in the formulation of recommendations shall bear in mind the desirability of cooperation in social and economic matters with other governments of the Caribbean area, not members of the Commission . The issuance of invitations to such governments to participate in conferences or other meetings sponsored by the Commission shall be subject to approval by the Member Governments.
Article XVIII

Relationship with United Nations and Specialized Agencies
1. The Commission and its auxiliary bodies, while having no present connection with the United Nations, shall cooperate as fully as possible with the United Nations and with appropriate specialized agencies on matters of mutual concern within the terms of reference of the Commission.
2. The Member Governments undertake to consult with the United Nations and the appropriate specialized agencies, at such times and in such manner as may be considered desirable, with a view to defining the relationship which shall exist and to ensuring effective cooperation between the Commission and its auxiliary bodies and the appropriate

2624

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

organs of the United Nations and specialized agencies, dealing with economic and social matters.

Article XIX

Saving Clause
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to conflict with the existing or future constitutional relations between any Member Government and its territories or in any way to affect the constitutional authority and responsibility of the territorial governments.
Article XX

Definitions
In this Agreement the expressions "territories " or "territorial governments " shall be deemed to relate to the territories, possessions, colonies, or groups of colonies of the Member Governments in the Caribbean area or to the administrations or governments thereof.

Article XXI

Entry into Force

Duration.

1. This Agreement shall enter into force when notices of approval [ ] thereof shall have been deposited by all four signatory governments with the Government of the United States of America which shall notify the other signatory governments of each such deposit and of the date of entry into force of the Agreement.
2. This Agreement shall have indefinite duration , provided that after an initial period of five years any Member Government may give notice at any time of withdrawal from the Commission . Such notice shall take effect one year after the date of its formal communication to the other Member Governments , but this Agreement shall continue in force with respect to the other Member Governments .

In witness whereof the duly authorized representatives of the re-

spective Member Governments have signed this Agreement on the

dates appearing opposite their signatures . [2]

Authentic lan-

guages.

Opened for signature in Washington, on October 30, 1946 , and

done in quadruplicate, in the English, French, and Netherlands

languages, each of which shall be equally authentic.

¹ Entered into force Aug. 6, 1948, notice of approval having been deposited in behalf of: the United States, Mar. 8, 1948 ; France , Dec. 11 , 1946 ; Netherlands, Aug. 6, 1948 ; and the United Kingdom, Mar. 4, 1947.
' The agreement was signed on behalf of the Member Governments on Oct. 30, 1946.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION-OCT. 30, 1946

2625

CONVENTION
PORTANT CREATION D'UNE COMMISSION DES CARAIBES
Les GOUVERNEMENTS des ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE , de la REPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE, du ROYAUME DES PAYS-BAS , et du ROYAUMEUNI DE GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET D'IRLANDE DU NORD , dont les Représentants dûment autorisés ont apposé ci-dessous leur signature ,
Désireux d'encourager et de renforcer la coopération entre euxmêmes et leurs territoires en vue d'améliorer les conditions sociales et économiques du bien-être des populations desdits territoires , et
Désireux de promouvoir le développement scientifique, technologique et économique de la zone des Caraïbes , de faciliter l'utilisation des ressources et l'application de solutions concertées aux problèmes communs, d'éviter le double emploi dans le travail des organismes existants de recherches , de contrôler les besoins, de s'assurer des recherches qui ont été faites , de faciliter les recherches sur une base de coopération et de recommander des recherches ultérieures , et
Ayant décidé de s'associer à l'oeuvre entreprise jusqu'à présent par la Commission Anglo-Américaine des Caraïbes , et
Etant convenus que les buts que se propose la présente Convention sont en harmonie avec les principes de la Charte des Nations Unies ,
Par les présentes conviennent de ce qui suit:
Article I
Création de la Commission des Caraïbes et des organismes auxiliaires
Par les présentes est établie la Commission des Caraïbes (ci-après désignée sous le terme de "la Commission" ) et , comme organismes auxiliaires de la Commission , le Conseil de Recherches des Caraïbes et la Conférence des Indes Occidentales (ci-après désignés respectivement sous les termes de "le Conseil de Recherches" et "la Conférence").
Article II
Composition de la Commission
1. La Commission sera composée au plus de seize Commissaires nommés par les Gouvernements signataires (désignés ci-après sous le terme de "Gouvernements- membres " ) . Chaque Gouvernementmembre aura la faculté de nommer quatre Commissaires et autant de suppléants qu'il le jugera nécessaire . Chaque groupe de Commissaires ainsi constitué formera une section nationale de la Commission .
2. Chaque Gouvernement-membre désignera l'un de ses Commissaires comme Président de sa section nationale. Chaque Président ainsi désigné, ou , en son absence, le Commissaire désigné par lui , parmi les membres de sa section nationale, comme son suppléant,

2626

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
sera Co-président de la Commission et présidera les séances de la Commission suivant un roulement établi d'après l'ordre alphabétique anglais des Gouvernements-membres , sans égard au lieu où la séance de la Commission pourra se tenir.
Article III
Pouvoirs de la Commission
La Commission sera un organisme consultatif qui formulera des avis , et sera dotée de toute capacité juridique qui sera nécessaire pour lui permettre d'exercer ses fonctions et d'atteindre ses buts.
Article IV
Attributions de la Commission
Les attributions de la Commission seront les suivantes:
(1 ) Elle s'intéressera aux affaires économiques et sociales d'intérêt commun dans la zone des Caraïbes , en particulier à l'agriculture , aux communications , à l'éducation , aux pêcheries, à l'hygiène, à l'habitation , à l'industrie, au travail, au bien-être social et au commerce .
(2) Elle étudiera, formulera et recommandera , de sa propre initiative ou sur la proposition de tout Gouvernement-membre ou Gouvernement territorial, du Conseil de Recherches ou de la Conférence , des mesures, programmes et directives relatifs aux problèmes sociaux et économiques , destinés à contribuer au bien-être de la zone des Caraïbes . Elle conseillera les Gouvernements-membres et les Gouvernements territoriaux sur tous les sujets précités et formulera des recommandations en vue de l'exécution de toute action nécessaire ou désirable dans ces domaines .
(3 ) Elle aidera à réaliser la coordination de projets locaux ayant une portée régionale et fournira des directives techniques tirées de l'expérience des quatre Nations signataires , qu'il eût été impossible d'obtenir par ailleurs .
(4) Elle dirigera et contrôlera les activités du Conseil de Recherches et formulera ses règles de procédure .
(5) Elle se chargera des convocations pour les sessions de la Conférence, formulera ses règles de procédure et rendra compte aux Gouvernements-membres des résolutions et recommandations de la Conférence .
Article V
Réunions de la Commission
1. La Commission ne tiendra pas moins de deux réunions de Commission chaque année. Elle aura la faculté de se réunir et de tenir des séances à toute époque et en tout lieu qu'elle pourra décider.
2. Lors de toutes ces réunions , le quorum sera atteint lorsque les quatre Co -présidents, ou leur suppléant désigné, seront présents.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION- OCT. 30, 1946
Article VI
Méthode pour aboutir aux décisions
La Commission aura le pouvoir de déterminer la méthode qui lui permettra d'aboutir à des décisions , étant entendu que les décisions autres que celles qui ont trait à la procédure ne seront pas prises sans l'assentiment des quatre Co-présidents respectifs ou de leur suppléant désigné.
Article VII
Le Conseil de Recherches
Le Conseil de Recherches , conjointement avec tous les Comités de Recherches que la Commission pourra créer , remplira les fonctions d'un organisme auxiliaire de la Commission , ayant compétence en matière de recherches scientifiques, technologiques , sociales et économiques dans l'intérêt des populations de la zone des Caraïbes .
Article VIII
Composition du Conseil de Recherches
1. Le Conseil de Recherches se composera de sept membres au moins et de quinze membres au plus , que la Commission nommera en tenant le plus grand compte de leur compétence scientifique . L'un au moins des membres de chaque Comité de Recherches devra être membre du Conseil de Recherches.
2. Le Conseil de Recherches élira un Président dans son sein . Un Vice-Président du Conseil de Recherches sera nommé par la Commission et fera partie du Secrétariat Général .
3. Les membres actuels du Conseil de Recherches et de ses Comités de Recherches seront réputés être entrés en fonctions à la date du 1er janvier 1946.
Article IX
Attributions du Conseil de Recherches
Les attributions du Conseil de Recherches seront les suivantes: (a) Il fera des recommandations à la Commission en ce qui concerne le nombre et les attributions des Comités de Recherches techniques nécessaires pour procéder à des études scientifiques spécialisées relativement aux problèmes de recherches aux Caraïbes . (b) Dans l'intérêt de la zone des Caraïbes , il s'assurera des recherches qui ont été faites , contrôlera les besoins , émettra des avis en ce qui concerne les projets de recherches désirables , organisera et facilitera la recherche sur une base coopérative, entreprendra les recherches proposées d'une nature spéciale , que nul autre organisme n'est en mesure d'entreprendre ou disposé à effectuer , et recueillera et diffusera les renseignements relatifs aux recherches . (c) Il fera des recommandations à la Commission en vue de convoquer des réunions du Conseil de Recherches et des Comités , et également des réunions de chercheurs scientifiques spécialisés et de con-

2627

2628

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
seillers sociaux auprès de la population locale , et il facilitera un échange des résultats obtenus entre les chercheurs de la zone des Caraïbes .
Article X
La Conférence
La Conférence sera un organisme auxiliaire de la Commission . La permanence de son existence sera assurée au moyen de sessions régulières .
Article XI
Composition de la Conférence
1. Chaque Gouvernement territorial aura la faculté de déléguer à chaque session de la Conférence deux délégués au plus , et autant de conseillers qu'il le jugera nécessaire.
2. Les délégués à la Conférence seront nommés pour chaque territoire conformément à sa procédure constitutionnelle. La durée de leur mandat sera déterminée par le Gouvernement responsable.
Article XII
Attributions de la Conférence
Les sessions de la Conférence constitueront un moyen régulier de consultation avec et entre les délégués des territoires , sur les affaires d'intérêt commun , dans le cadre des attributions de la Commission visées à l'Article IV de la présente Convention, et elles fourniront l'occasion de faire des recommandations à la Commission au sujet de ces affaires .
Article XIII
Réunions de la Conférence
1. La Commission convoquera la Conférence en session au moins une fois tous les deux ans, à une date au choix de la Commission . Le lieu de réunion de chaque session de la Conférence, qui sera situé dans l'un des territoires, sera choisi à tour de rôle, selon l'ordre alphabétique anglais des Gouvernements-membres.
2. Le Président de chaque session de la Conférence sera le Président de la section nationale de la Commission sur le territoire de laquelle se tiendra la session.
Article XIV
Secrétariat Général
1. La Commission établira, dans un endroit situé à l'intérieur de la zone des Caraïbes et qui sera fixé par accord entre les Gouvernements-membres, un Secrétariat Général destiné à assister la Commission et ses organismes auxiliaires.
2. Un Secrétaire Général et un Secrétaire Général Adjoint seront nommés par la Commission conformément aux dispositions et aux

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION- OCT. 30, 1946
conditions qui seront prescrites par cette dernière. En cas de vacance du poste de Secrétaire Général, ce poste ne sera pas pourvu , sauf pour des raisons spéciales approuvées par la Commission, par un candidat de la même nationalité que le Secrétaire Général sortant, compte tenu du souci d'assurer la continuité dans l'administration des affaires de la Commission . La Commission aura cependant la faculté discrétionnaire de renouveler le mandat d'un Secrétaire Général pour une nouvelle période. Le Secrétaire Général sera le fonctionnaire administratif supérieur de la Commission et exécutera toutes les directives de la Commission.
3. Le Secrétaire Général sera responsable du bon fonctionnement du Secrétariat Général et sera habilité, conformément aux instructions qu'il pourra recevoir de la Commission, à nommer et à révoquer le personnel dont la nomination ou le renvoi seront jugés nécessaires pour assurer la bonne marche des travaux de la Commission, étant entendu que la nomination et le renvoi des Assistants du Secrétaire Général seront soumis à l'approbation de la Commission .
4. Dans le choix du Secrétaire Général, des cadres et du personnel subalterne du Secrétariat Général, il y aura lieu d'attacher une importance primordiale aux aptitudes techniques et à l'intégrité personnelle des candidats ; et, dans la mesure compatible avec ces exigences, on recrutera lesdits cadres et personnel subalterne dans la zone des Caraïbes , en visant à obtenir une représentation équitable des diverses nationalités .
5. Dans l'exercice de leurs fonctions , le Secrétaire Général et le personnel ne solliciteront, ne recevront, ni n'observeront aucune instruction émanant d'un Gouvernement ou de toute autre autorité étrangère à la Commission . Ils s'abstiendront de toute action susceptible d'affecter leur position de fonctionnaires internationaux responsables seulement devant la Commission.
6. Chacun des Gouvernements-membres s'engage à respecter le caractère exclusivement international des responsabilités incombant au Secrétaire Général et au personnel , et à ne pas chercher à les influencer dans l'exercice de leurs fonctions .
7. Chaque Gouvernement-membre s'engage, dans la mesure compatible avec sa procédure constitutionnelle, à accorder au Secrétaire Général et au personnel approprié du Secrétariat Général tous privilèges et immunités nécessaires pour leur assurer l'indépendance dans l'exercice de leurs fonctions, y compris l'inviolabilité des locaux et des archives du Secrétariat Général. La Commission formulera des recommandations en vue de fixer les détails d'application du présent paragraphe, et aura la faculté de proposer des conventions à cet effet, à l'agrément des Gouvernements-membres.
Article XV
Finances
1. Les traitements , allocations et frais divers pour les Commissaires et le personnel placé sous leurs ordres ainsi que pour les délégués et conseillers aux Conférences, seront fixés et payés par les Gouvernements respectifs qui auront nommé les intéressés.

2629

2630

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
2. Le Secrétaire Général préparera et soumettra à la Commission un budget annuel et tous budgets additionnels qui seraient nécessaires pour couvrir toutes autres dépenses de la Commission, y compris celles du Conseil de Recherches, de la Conférence, du Secrétariat Général, les dépenses afférentes aux projets spéciaux de recherches , aux conférences, aux contrôles et autres activités similaires placés sous les auspices de la Commission. Après l'adoption du budget par la Commission, le montant total en sera réparti entre les Gouvernements-membres selon des proportions qui devront être déterminées par accord. Un fonds commun sera créé par les Gouvernementsmembres pour permettre à la Commission de couvrir les dépenses évaluées dans ledit budget annuel ou les budgets additionnels . Chaque Gouvernement-membre s'engagera, sous réserve des exigences de sa procédure constitutionnelle, à verser promptement à ce fonds les contributions annuelles et supplémentaires qui pourront lui être demandées aux termes de l'accord.
3. L'exercice budgétaire de la Commission coïncidera avec l'année de calendrier. Le premier budget de la Commission couvrira la période s'étendant de la date d'entrée en vigueur de la présente Convention jusqu'au 31 décembre 1946 inclus .
4. Le Secrétaire Général détiendra et administrera le fonds commun de la Commission et en tiendra une comptabilité adéquate. La Commission prendra, en vue de l'apurement des comptes, des mesures susceptibles de donner satisfaction aux Gouvernements-membres. Les rapports relatifs à l'apurement des comptes seront communiqués chaque année à chacun des Gouvernements-membres.
Article XVI
Autorité habilitée à créer des Comités et à édicter des réglements
Par les présentes , la Commission est habilitée à créer des Comités et, sous réserve des dispositions de la présente Convention , à édicter des règles de procédure et des réglements applicables aux activités de la Commission, de ses organismes auxiliaires , du Secrétariat Général et de tous Comités qu'elle sera susceptible de créer, et, d'une manière générale, à prendre toutes mesures tendant à la mise en application des dispositions de la présente Convention.
Article XVII
Relations avec les Gouvernements qui ne sont pas membres de la Commission dans la zone des Caraïbes
Pour leurs projets de recherches et les recommandations qu'ils formuleront, la Commission et le Conseil de Recherches ne devront pas perdre de vue les avantages de la coopération en matière sociale et économique avec d'autres Gouvernements de la zone des Caraïbes qui ne sont pas membres de la Commission . L'envoi à ces Gouvernements d'invitations à participer à des conférences ou à d'autres réunions tenues sous les auspices de la Commission sera soumis à l'agrément des Gouvernements-membres.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION-OCT. 30, 1946
Article XVIII
Relations avec les Nations Unies et les organismes spécialisés
1. La Commission et ses organismes auxiliaires , tout en n'ayant actuellement aucune attache avec les Nations Unies, coopéreront dans la plus large mesure possible avec les Nations Unies et avec les organismes spécialisés appropriés , dans les affaires d'intérêt commun , dans le cadre des attributions de la Commission.
2. Les Gouvernements-membres s'engagent à se concerter avec les Nations Unies et les organismes spécialisés appropriés , à toute époque et sous toute forme qui pourront être jugées désirables, en vue de définir les relations qui existeront, et d'assurer une coopération. effective entre la Commission et ses organismes auxiliaires d'une part et les organes appropriés des Nations Unies et des organismes spécialisés d'autre part, en matière économique et sociale .
Article XIX
Clause de garantie
Rien dans l'interprétation des termes de la présente Convention n'ira à l'encontre des règles constitutionnelles présentes ou futures qui définissent les relations entre les Gouvernements-membres et leurs territoires , ni ne portera atteinte en aucune façon à l'autorité et aux responsabilités constitutionnelles des Gouvernements territoriaux.
Article XX
Définitions
Dans la présente Convention , les expressions "territoires" ou "Gouvernements territoriaux" s'appliqueront aux territoires , possessions, colonies ou groupes de colonies des Gouvernements-membres dans la zone des Caraïbes ou aux administrations ou gouvernements desdits territoires, possessions, colonies ou groupes de colonies .
Article XXI
Entrée en vigueur
1 La présente Convention entrera en vigueur lorsque les avis d'approbation de ladite Convention auront été déposés par les quatre Gouvernements signataires auprès du Gouvernement des EtatsUnis d'Amérique qui avisera les autres Gouvernements signataires de chacun de ces dépôts et de la date d'entrée en vigueur de la Convention.
2. La présente Convention aura une durée illimitée , étant entendu qu'à l'issue d'une période initiale de cinq années , tout Gouvernementmembre aura la faculté, à une époque quelconque, de donner avis de son retrait de la Commission. Ce retrait prendra effet une année après la date de la communication officielle dudit avis aux autres Gouvernements-membres, mais la présente Convention restera en vigueur en ce qui concerne les autres Gouvernements-membres .

2631

2632

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
En foi de quoi les Représentants dûment autorisés des Gouvernements-membres respectifs ont signé la présente Convention à la date figurant en regard de leur signature .
Ouvert à la signature à Washington , à la date du 30 octobre 1946 et établi en quadruple exemplaires, dans les langues anglaise, française et hollandaise, chacune d'elles faisant également foi .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION- OCT. 30, 1946

2633

OVEREENKOMST VOOR DE OPRICHTING VAN DE CARAIBISCHE COMMISSIE .
De Regeeringen van de VEREENIGDE STATEN VAN AMERIKA , de FRANSCHE REPUBLIEK , het KONINKRIJK DER NEDERLANDEN en het VEREENIGD KONINKRIJK VAN GROOT BRITTANNIE EN NOORD IERLAND , welker vertegenwoordigers , behoorlijk hiertoe gemachtigd , zich met het onderstaande hebben vereenigd ,
Verlangende de samenwerking onderling en tusschen hunne gebiedsdeelen aan te moedigen en te versterken met de bedoeling het economisch en sociaal welzijn van de volkeren van deze gebiedsdeelen te verhoogen , en
Verlangende de wetenschappelijke , technologische en economische ontwikkeling in het gebied der Caraïbische Zee te bevorderen en het gebruik van hulpbronnen en de behandeling van gemeenschappelijke vraagstukken in gezamenlijk overleg te vergemakkelijken en daarbij dubbel werk van bestaande onderzoekinstellingen te vermijden , een overzicht te verkrijgen van behoeften, vast te stellen welk onderzoekingswerk is geschied , onderzoekingswerk op een grondslag van samenwerking te vergemakkelijken en verder onderzoek aan te bevelen , en
Besloten hebbende zich aan te sluiten bij den arbeid tot dusverre verricht door de Anglo- American Caribbean Commission, en
Vaststellende , dat de hier gestelde doeleinden in overeenstemming zijn met de beginselen van het Handvest der Vereenigde Naties

2634

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Komen bij deze het volgende overeen :
Artikel I. Oprichting van de Caraïbische Commissie en bijbe-
hoorende instellingen . Bij deze worden opgericht de Caraïbische Commissie (hierna te noemen " de Commissie " ) en , als bijbehoorende instellingen van de Commissie , de Caraïbische Raad van Onderzoek en de West Indische Conferentie ( hierna onderscheidenlijk te noemen " de Raad van Onderzoek" en " de Conferentie " ) .
Artikel II . Samenstelling van de Commissie . 1. De Commissie zal bestaan uit niet meer dan zestien Commissarissen , die benoemd zullen worden door de Regeeringen , die deze overeenkomst onderteekend hebben (hierna te noemen " Leden " ) . Elk Lid heeft het recht vier Commissarissen te benoemen en die plaatsvervangers , welke noodig geoordeeld worden . Elke zoodanige groep van Commissarissen zal een nationale afdeeling van de Commissie vormen . 2. Elk Lid zal een van zijn Commissarissen aanwijzen als Voorzitter van zijn nationale afdeeling . Elke zoodanige Voorzitter , of in zijne afwezigheid , de Commissaris door hem uit zijn nationale afdeeling aangewezen als zijn plaatsvervanger , zal Mede - Voorzitter van de Commissie zijn en zal de vergaderingen van de Commissie presideeren bij toerbeurt , overeenkomstig de Engelsche alphabetische volgorde van de Leden , ongeacht de plaats , waar een vergadering van de Commissie wordt gehouden .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION- OCT. 30, 1946
Artikel III . Bevoegdheden van de Commissie . De Commissie zal een raadplegend en adviseerend lichaam zijn en zal zoodanige wettelijke bevoegdheid hebben als noodzakelijk zal zijn voor de vervulling van haar taak , en het bereiken van hare doeleinden .
Artikel IV . Taak van de Commissie . De taak van de Commissie zal zijn als volgt : 1. Zich bezig te houden met economische en sociale aangelegenheden van gemeenschappelijk belang voor het gebied der Caraïbische Zee , in het bijzonder landbouw , verkeer , opvoeding , visscherij , gezondheid , huisvesting , industrie , arbeid , sociaal welzijn en handel . 2. Op eigen initiatief , of op voorstel van een der Leden of van de plaatselijke regeeringen , van den Raad van Onderzoek of de Conferentie , te bestudeeren , te formuleeren en aan te bevelen , die maatregelen , programma's en richtlijnen met be trekking tot sociale en economische vraagstukken , welke ten doel hebben tot het welzijn van het gebied der Caraïbische Zee bij te dragen . Zij zal den Leden en de plaatselijke regeeringen ter zake van al zulke aangelegenheden raad geven een aanbevelingen doen teneinde te geraken tot de uitvoering van iedere , in dit verband noodzakelijke of wenschelijke actie . 3. Behulpzaam te zijn in het coördineeren van plaatselijke plannen , welke van regionaal belang zijn en vanuit een ruimer gezichtsveld technische voorlichting , welke anders niet beschikbaar zou zijn , te verschaffen .

2635

2636

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
4. Leiding te geven aan en toezicht te houden op den arbeid van den Raad van Onderzoek en het reglement van orde van den Raad vast te stellen .
5. Maatregelen te treffen tot het bijeenroepen van de zittingen der Conferentie , haar reglement van orde vast te stellen , en aan de Leden over besluiten en aanbevelingen van de Conferentie verslag uit te brengen .
Artikel V. Vergaderingen van de Commissie . 1. De Commissie zal ieder jaar niet minder dan twee vergaderingen houden . Zij is gemachtigd vergaderingen bijeen te roepen en te houden op elken tijd en op elke plaats , welke zij daartoe zal aanwijzen . 2. Op al zulke vergaderingen zullen de vier Lede - Voorzitters of de door een ieder van hen aangewezen plaatsvervangers een quorum vormen .
Artikel VI . Wijze , waarop beslissingen genomen zullen worden .
De Commissie heeft de bevoegdheid te bepalen op welke wijze hare beslissingen genomen zullen worden , met dien verstande dat beslissingen , welke niet betrekking hebben op de procedure , niet genomen kunnen worden zonder de instemming van de onderscheidene Mede - Voorzitters of de door een ieder van hen aangewezen plaatsvervangers .
Artikel VII . De Raad van Onderzoek . De Raad van Onderzoek zal , tezamen met die Comité's van Onderzoek , welke de Commissie zal instellen , werkzaam zijn als een bij de Commissie behoorende instelling voor

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION-OCT. 30, 1946
wetenschappelijk , technologisch , sociaal en economisch onderzoek tot het welzijn van de volkeren van het gebied der CaraIbische Zee .
Artikel VII1 . Samenstelling van den Raad van Onderzoek . 1. De Raad van Onderzoek zal bestaan uit niet minder dan zeven en niet meer dan vijftien leden te benoemen door de Commissie met bijzondere inachtneming van hunne wetenschappelijke bekwaamheid . Ten minste één lid van ieder Comité van Onderzoek zal lid zijn van den Raad van Onderzoek . 2. De Raad van Onderzoek zal een Voorzitter kiezen uit zijn leden . Een Vice - Voorzitter van den Raad van Onderzoek zal worden benoemd door de Commissie en zal als ambtenaar van het Centraal Secretariaat werkzaam zijn . 3. De tegenwoordige samenstelling van den Raad van Onderzoek en van zijne Comité's van Onderzoek zal geacht worden van kracht te zijn van den eersten dag van Januari 1946 af .
Artikel IX . Taak van den Raad van Onderzoek . De taak van den Raad van Onderzoek zal zijn als volgt : a . Aan de Commissie aan te bevelen het aantal en de werkzaamheden van de technische Comité's van Onderzoek , noodig om gespecialiseerde wetenschappelijke beschouwing van Caraïbische onderzoekvraagstukken te verschaffen . b . In het belang van het gebied der Caraïbische Zee vast te stellen welk onderzoekingswerk is verricht , een overzicht te verkrijgen van behoeften , advies uit te brengen betreffende de wenschelijkheid van plannen tot onderzoek , gemeenschappelijk onderzoek te regelen en te vergemakkelijken , opdrachten tot

2637

2638

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
onderzoek van specialen aard uit te voeren , welke geen andere instelling in staat en bereid is uit te voeren , en inlichtingen betreffende onderzoekingswerk te verzamelen en te verspreiden .
c . Aan de Commissie aanbevelingen te doen ter zake van het houden van vergaderingen van den Raad van Onderzoek en van Comité's van Onderzoek en eveneens van vergaderingen van personen , die werkzaam zijn op het gebied van de wetenschap of zich met speciale onderwerpen en algemeene zakelijke voorlichting bezig houden , en de uitwisseling van opgedane ervaringen tusschen de personen , die zich in het gebied der Caraïbische Zee met onderzoekingswerk bezig houden , te vergemakkelijken .
Artikel X. De Conferentie . De Conferentie is een bij de Commissie behoorende instelling. De continuïteit van haar bestaan zal verzekerd zijn door middel van regelmatig te houden zittingen .
Artikel XI . Samenstelling van de Conferentie . 1. Elke plaatselijke Regeering zal het recht hebben naar elke zitting van de Conferentie ten hoogste twee afgevaardigden en zoovele adviseurs als zij noodig zal oordeelen , te zenden . 2. Afgevaardigden naar de Conferentie zullen worden benoemd voor elk gebiedsdeel in overeenstemming met zijn grondwettelijke voorschriften . De duur van hunne benoemingen zal worden vastgesteld door de regeeringen , die hen benoemen .
Artikel XII . Taak van de Conferentie .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION- OCT. 30, 1946
De zittingen van de Conferentie zullen een regelmatig middel van overleg vormen met en tusschen de afgevaardigden van de gebiedsdeelen in zaken van gemeenschappelijk belang binnen de grenzen van de bevoegdheden van de Commissie , zooals deze zijn omschreven in Artikel IV van deze overeenkomst ; zij verschaffen de gelegenheid om aan de Commissie in zake zulke onderwerpen aanbevelingen te doen .
Artikel XIII . Vergaderingen van de Conferentie . 1. De Commissie zal de Conferentie ten minste eenmaal in de twee jaar bijeenroepen op een door de Commissie te bepalen datum. De plaats van elke zitting van de Conferentie zal in een der gebiedsdeelen gelegen zijn en zal worden gekozen bij toerbeurt overeenkomstig de Engelsche alphabetische volgorde van de Leden . 2. De Voorzitter van elke zitting der Conferentie zal zijn de Voorzitter van de nationale afdeeling der Commissie in welker gebiedsdeel de zitting wordt gehouden .
Artikel XIV . Centraal Secretariaat . 1. De Commissie zal , ten dienste van haarzelve en hare bijbehoorende instellingen , een Centraal Secretariaat instellen, dat gevestigd zal zijn op een plaats , gelegen binnen het gebied der Caraïbische Zee en nader door de Leden overeen te komen . 2. De Commissie zal een Secretaris- Generaal en een plaatsvervangend Secretaris - Generaal benoemen op door haarzelve vast te stellen voorwaarden . In geval zich een vacature in het ambt van Secretaris- Generaal voordoet , zal deze niet vervuld worden

2639

2640

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
door een candidaat van dezelfde nationaliteit als de aftredende Secretaris - Generaal , behoudens bijzondere redenen , welke door de Commissie goedgekeurd zijn ; daarbij zal de wenschelijkheid van continuïteit in de administratie der zaken van de Commissie in aanmerking worden genomen . Het zal echter aan de Commissie vrij staan naar goedvinden een Secretaris - Generaal voor een volgenden termijn te herbenoemen . De Secretaris - Generaal zal de eerste administratieve ambtenaar van de Commissie zijn en zal alle directieven van de Commissie uitvoeren .
3. De Secretaris - Generaal zal verantwoordelijk zijn voor de juiste werking van het Centraal Secretariaat en zal gemachtigd zijn , met inachtneming van zoodanige aanwijzingen als hij zal ontvangen van de Commissie , zooveel personeel als noodig wordt geacht om een doelmatige leiding van de zaken der Commissie te verzekeren , aan te nemen en te ontslaan , zulks onder voorbehoud , dat de benoeming en het ontslag van de assistenten van den Secretaris - Generaal zullen onderworpen zijn aan de goedkeuring van de Commissie .
4. Bij de benoeming van den Secretaris - Generaal , de ambtenaren en het personeel van het Centraal Secretariaat , zal in de eerste plaats worden gelet op de technische bekwaamheden en de persoonlijke integriteit der candidaten en , voor zoover zulks vereenigbaar is met deze eischer , zullen de ambtenaren en het personeel worden aangeworven in het gebied der Caraïbische Zee , met de bedoeling om een gelijkelijk verdeelde nationale vertegenwoordiging te verkrijgen .
5. Bij de vervulling van hunne werkzaamheden zullen de Secretaris - Generaal en het personeel geen instructies vragen , noch ontvangen of inachtnemen van eenige regeering of van

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION-OCT. 30, 1946
eenige andere , buiten de Commissie staande autoriteit . Zij zullen zich onthouden van elke handeling , welke onvereenigbaar is met hun positie van internationaal ambtenaar , die alleen aan de Commissie verantwoordelijk is .
6. Elk Lid verplicht zich het uitsluitend internationale karakter der verantwoordelijkheden van den Secretaris - Generaal en het personeel te eerbiedigen en niet te trachten hen in de vervulling van hunne verantwoordelijke taak te beïnvloeden .
7. Elk Lid verplicht zich , voor zoover zijn grondwettelijke bepalingen zulks toelaten , aan den Secretaris - Generaal en het daarvoor in aanmerking komende personeel van het Centraal Secretariaat die voorrechten en immuniteiten toe te kennen, welke noodig zijn voor de onafhankelijke uitvoering van hon taak , daarbij inbegrepen de onschendbaarheid van de gebouwen en archieven van het Centraal Secretariaat . De Commissie zal aanbevelingen doen nopens het vastleggen der bijzonderheden voor de toepassing van het in dit lid bepaalde , of kan aan de Leden voorstellen zulks bij verdrag te regelen .
Artikel XV . Financiën . 1. De salarissen , toelagen en uitgaven van verschillenden aard van de Commissarissen en hun personeel , en van afgevaardigden en adviseurs naar de Conferenties zullen worden vastgesteld en betaald door de regeeringen , die hen benoemen . 2. De Secretaris - Generaal zal een jaarlijksche begrooting opstellen en aan de Commissie voorleggen , alsmede zoodanige aanvullende begrootingen als noodig zullen zijn ter bestrijding van alle andere uitgaven der Commissie , inbegrepen die van den Raad van Onderzoek , de Conferentie , het Centraal Secretariaat ,

2641

2642

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
bijzondere plannen van onderzoek , conferenties , overzichtsstudiën en andere soortgelijke werkzaamheden , onder de auspiciën der Commissie . Na goedkeuring van de begrooting door de Commissie , zal het totale bedrag daarvan worden verdeeld onder de Leden in een verhouding , welke bij overeenkomst zal worden vastgesteld . Een gemeenschappelijk fonds zal worden ingesteld door de Leden , hetwelk door de Commissie zal worden aangewend ter bestrijding van de uitgaven , welke op genoemde jaarlijksche of aanvullende begrootingen zijn uitgetrokken . Elk Lid verplicht zich met inachtneming van de eischen van zijn grondwettelijke bepalingen , terstond aan dit fonds bij te dragen de jaarlijksche en aanvullende bedragen , welke , zooals is cvereengekomen , ten laste van een ieder hunner zullen worden gebracht .
3. Het fiscale jaar van de Commissie zal zijn het kalenderjaar . De eerste begrooting van de Commissie zal het tijdvak dekken van den dag van het van kracht worden dezer overeenkomst tot en met den 31sten December 1946 .
4. De Secretaris - Generaal. zal het gemeenschappelijke fonds van de Commissie onder zijn berusting hebben en beheeren en zal ter zake nauwkeurig boekhouden . De Commissie zal , tot de tevredenheid der Leden , regelingen treffen voor het verifieeren van hare rekeningen . De accountants - rapporten zullen jaarlijks worden toegezonden aan een ieder der Leden .
Artikel XVI . Bevoegdheid tot het bencemen van Comité's en het
vaststellen van voorschriften . De Commissie wordt hierbij gemachtigd om comité's te benoemen , en , met inachtneming van de voorzieningen van deze overeenkomst , reglementen van orde uit te vaardigen , alsmede voor-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CARIBBEAN COMMISSION--OCT. 30, 1946
schriften vast te stellen ter regeling van de werkzaamheden van de Commissie , hare bijbehoorende instellingen , het Centraal Secretariaat , en van de door haar in te stellen comité's en in het algemeen tot het uitvoeren van de bepalingen van deze overeenkomst .
Artikel XVII . Verhouding tot Regeeringen in het gebied der Caraibische Zee , welke geen lid zijn
der Commissie . De Commissie en de Raad van Onderzoek zullen in hunne plannen voor onderzoek en bij het opstellen van aanbevelingen vitgaan van de wenschelijkheid van samenwerking in sociale en economische aangelegenheden met andere regeeringen in het gebied der Caraïbische Zee , welke geen lid van de Commissie zijn . Het verzenden van uitnoodigingen aan deze regeeringen om deel te nemen aan conferenties of andere vergaderingen , uitgaande van de Commissie , zal onderworpen zijn aan de goedkeuring van de Leden .
Artikel XVIII . Verhouding tot de Vereenigde Naties en gespecialiseerde
organisaties . 1. Alhoewel de Commissie en hare bijbehoorende instellingen op dit oogenblik niet in betrekking staan tot de Vereenigde Naties , zullen zij zoo volledig mogelijk samenwerken met de Vereenigde Naties en met de daartoe in aanmerking komende gespecialiseerde organisaties inzake aangelegenheden van wederzijdsch belang binnen de bevoegdheden der Commissie . 2. De Leden verplichten zich overleg te plegen met de Vereenigde Naties en de desbetreffende gespecialiseerde organisaties , te zoodanigen tijd en op zoodanige wijze als wenschelijk

2643

68706-52- PT. III- -3

2644

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
zal worden geoordeeld met het doel de verhouding te bepalen , welke zal bestaan tusschen eenerzijds de Commissie en hare bijbehoorende instellingen en anderzijds de desbetreffende organen van de Vereenigde Naties en gespecialiseerde organisaties , welke zich met economische en sociale aangelegenheden bezighouden , en tevens ten einde een doelmatige samenwerking te verzekeren .
Artikel XIX . Voorbehoud .
Niets in deze overeenkomst zal worden uitgelegd als in strijd te zijn met de bestaande of toekomstige constitutioneele verhoudingen tusschen eenig Lid en zijn gebiedsdeelen , of in eenig opzicht inbreuk te maken op het gezag en de verantwoordelijkheid , welke de plaatselijke regeeringen krachtens hare grondwetten dragen .
Artikel XX . Definities . In deze overeenkomst zullen de uitdrukkingen " gebiedsdeelen" of " plaatselijke regeeringen" geacht worden betrekking te hebben op de gebiedsdeelen , bezittingen , koloniën , of groepen van koloniën van de Leden in het gebied der Caraïbische Zee of op de administraties of regeringen daarvan . Artikel XXI . Het in werking treden der overeenkomst . 1. Deze overeenkomst zal in werking treden , wanneer kennisgevingen , dat zij is goedgekeurd , door alle vier onderteekenende Regeeringen zullen zijn neergelegd bij de Regeering van de Vereenigde Staten van Amerika , welke de andere onderteekenende Regeeringen zal in kennis stellen van elke zooda-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-CARIBBEAN COMMISSION-OCT. 30, 1946
nige nederlegging en van den datum van het in werking treden van de overeenkomst .
2. Deze overeenkomst zal van onbepaalden duur zijn , onder voorbehoud , dat na een aanvangsperiode van 5 jaren elk Lid te elker tijd kan kennisgeven van zijn uittreden uit de Commissie . Zoodanige kennisgeving zal van kracht worden een jaar na den datum van hare formeele mededeeling aan de andere Leden , doch deze overeenkomst zal van kracht blijven ten aanzien van de andere Leden .
Ten blijke waarvan de behoorlijk gemachtigde vertegenwoordigers van de onderscheidene Leden deze overeenkomst hebben onderteekend op de data naast hunne handteekeningen vermeld .
Opengesteld voor onderteekening te Washington , op den 30 October 1946 en opgemaakt in viervoud in de Engelsche , Fransche , en Nederlandsche taal , welke ieder gelijkelijk authentiek zullen zijn .

2645

2646

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
For the United States of America: Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amérique : Voor de Vereenigde Staten van Amerika:
(Reserving the right to await Congressional consideration before giving notice of approval) CH. WM. TAUSSIG
For the French Republic: Pour la République Française: Voor de Fransche Republiek:
HENRI BONNET
For the Kingdom of the Netherlands : Pour le Royaume des Pays-Bas : Voor het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden :
A. LOUDON
For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:
Pour le Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord:
Voor het Vereenigd Koninkrijk van Groot Brittannië en Noord Ierland: INVERCHAPEL

62 STAT. ] SWEDEN-RECIPROCAL TRADE- JUNE 12, 1948

2647

Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden respecting quantitative import restrictions and deferment of payments, extending the agreement of June 24, 1947, as modified, after June 30, 1948. Effected by exchange of memorandums dated at Washington June 12, 1948; entered into force June 12, 1948.

June 12, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1800]

The Swedish Embassy to the Department of State

EMBASSY OF SWEDEN WASHINGTON 8, D. C.

MEMORANDUM

The Government of Sweden wishes to refer to discussions which have recently been held between its Embassy in Washington and representatives of the Government of the United States of America concerning the problems faced by the Government of Sweden as the result of the serious loss of its gold and dollar exchange. These discussions have resulted in a mutual understanding between the two Governments as follows:

1. Because of the large deficit in the Swedish balance of payments with the hard currency areas of the world it is recognized that the Government of Sweden continues to be faced with the necessity of taking
measures to correct its present imbalance of trade and to conserve its foreign exchange. The import restrictions imposed by the Government of Sweden on March 15 , 1947, as presently applied are understood to serve these purposes.

2. It is therefore agreed that the provisions contained in the ex-

change of aide-memoire between the two Governments dated June 24, 1947, as modified by the exchange of memoranda dated February 11, 1948 shall continue to be applied after June 30, 1948, until the Government of Sweden becomes a contracting party to the General

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 3745.
62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1840.

Agreement on Tariffs and Trade concluded at Geneva Switzerland on October 30, 1947, or until June 30, 1949, whichever is the earlier.

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

If by May 1, 1949, Sweden has not adhered to the General Agreement

on Tariffs and Trade, the two Governments agree to review the situation for the purpose of considering such actions as the circumstances

may demand.

It is further agreed that either Government after consultation as to the continued justification for this understanding may terminate it on sixty days written notice.

WASHINGTON, D. C. , June 12, 1948.

A AFF

2648

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
The Department of State to the Swedish Embassy
MEMORANDUM
The Government of the United States of America wishes to refer to discussions which have recently been held between its representatives and representatives of the Embassy of Sweden concerning the problems faced by the Government of Sweden as the result of its serious loss of gold and dollar exchange, and to the memorandum of today's date from the Embassy of Sweden setting forth the understanding reached in these discussions. The Government of the United States of America confirms the understanding reached in these discussions as set forth in the memorandum from the Embassy of Sweden.
WLT DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, June 12, 1948.

62 STAT. ] HAITI-HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM-JUNE 25, 30, 1948

2649

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Haiti , extending the agreement of April 7, 1942 , as amended, until June 30, 1949. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Port-au-Prince June 25 and 30 , 1948; entered into force June 30, 1948.

June 25, 30, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1801]

The American Ambassador to the Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

NO. 710 EXCELLENCY :

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Port-au-Prince, Haiti , June 25, 1948

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between

the Republic of Haiti and the Institute of Inter- American Affairs ,

which arose out of notes exchanged between the President of the Re-

public of Haiti and the Under Secretary of State of the United States of America on April 7, 1942, as later modified and extended , which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative

58 Stat. 1439.

health and sanitation program in Haiti . I also refer to Your Excel-

lency's note of June 24, 1948, [ ¹ ] suggesting the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.
As Your Excellency knows, the Basic Agreement under reference provides that the cooperative health and sanitation program will

Extension of Basic Agreement.

terminate on June 30, 1948. However, considering the mutual bene-

fits which both governments are deriving from the program, my

Government agrees with the Government of Haiti that an extension

of such program would be desirable . I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the coopera-

tive program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1948 through June 30, 1949. It would be understood that, during such period ofextension the Institute would make a contribution of $70,000 United States currency to the Service Cooperatif Inter-American de la Sante Publique for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute to the Service for the same purpose the sum of at least 1,050,000 Gourdes ( $210,000.00 ) . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be retained by the Institute and not deposited to the account of the Service for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Health and Sanitation Field Staff who are maintained by the Institute in Haiti . The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.

Contributions, etc.

¹Not printed.

2650

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Entry into force.

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the present Note and your reply Note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments which shall come into force on the date of signature [ 1 ] of an Agreement by the Haitian Secretary of State for National Education and Public Health and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
HAROLD H. TITTMANN, American Ambassador.
His Excellency EDMÉE MANIGAT,
Secretariat of State for Foreign Affairs, Port-au-Prince.

The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT des
RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES
No. SG/A-3 : 1.327

RÉPUBLIQUE D'HAÏTI Port-au-Prince, le 30 Juin 1948.

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,

J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception à Votre Excellence de sa lettre en date du 25 courant, No. 710, relative au renouvellement de l'accord du 7

avril 1942 pour une période d'une année finissant le 30 juin 1949.

J'ai noté que les détails techniques dudit accord à conclure entre l'Institut des Affaires Inter-américaines et le Gouvernement haitien

devront être discutés par les fonctionnaires compétents des deux organismes.

Il m'est agréable d'informer Votre Excellence que les bases ci -dessous énumérées :

a) Contribution du Gouvernement haitien : $210.000.00 ;

b)

""

de l'Institut

: 70.000.00

outre une certaine valeur à déterminer et destinée au paiement des salaires et autres frais des membres du personnel de la Mission Sanitaire sont acceptées par le Gouvernement de la République.

¹1 June 30, 1948.

62 STAT. ] HAITI- HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM-JUNE 25, 30, 1948

Je saisis cette occasion pour renouveler à Votre Excellence , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, l'assurance de ma haute considération .
EDMÉ TH MANIGAT.
Son Excellence Monsieur HAROLD H. TITTMANN , Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire des Etats- Unis d'Amérique, Port-au-Prince.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR FOREIGN RELATIONS
No. SG/A-3 : 1.327 MR. AMBASSADOR :

Translation
REPUBLIC OF HAITI Port-au-Prince, June 30, 1948.

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note No. 710 of June 25 concerning the renewal of the agreement of
April 7, 1942 for the period of one year ending June 30, 1949 . I have noted that the technical details of the said agreement to be
concluded between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Haitian Government are to be discussed by the competent officials concerned.

I am pleased to inform Your Excellency that the bases listed hereunder :

a) Contribution of the Haitian Government : $210,000.00

b) Contribution of the Institute :

70,000.00

in addition to a certain amount to be determined and allocated for the payment of salaries and other expenses of the Sanitary Mission

personnel, are accepted by the Government of the Republic.

I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the

assurance of my high consideration.

EDMÉ TH MANIGAT.

His Excellency HAROLD H. TITTMANN,

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary ofthe United States of America, Port-au-Prince.

2651

68706-52- PT. III-- -4

2652

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

DaencdemAbperirl214,, 11994487, (T. I. A. S. 1802]

Arrangement between the United States of America and Canada respecting engineering standards applicable to the allocation of standard broadcasting stations (540-1600 kcs . ) . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington December 24 , 1947 , and April 1 , 1948 ; entered into force April 1 , 1948.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Canadian Ambassador

55 Stat. 1005, 60 Stat . 1862.
55 Stat. 1027.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

Dec 24 1947

I have the honor to refer to discussions in Atlantic City, New Jersey, between representatives of the Government of Canada and representatives of the Government of the United States concerning the matter of a mutual understanding as to engineering standards applicable to the allocation of standard broadcasting stations in the band of frequencies extending from 540 to 1600 kilocycles.
As a result of those discussions , the Government of the United States agrees to enter into an arrangement with the Government of Canada, effective as of the date of their reply, permitting the mutual application of the following engineering standards which will be considered as amending those engineering standards already in effect between the United States and Canada by virtue of provisions set forth in the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement signed at Habana , Cuba, on December 13, 1937, as continued in application by the terms of the Interim Agreement ( Modus Vivendi, Washington , February 25 , 1946. )
"1. 10% Skywave Signal Range Curves, 540 kilocycles to 1600 kilocycles, incorporating latitude effect.
"The attached family of curves entitled '10% Skywave Signal Range, 540 kilocycles to 1600 kilocycles' , designated Figure 1-A, showing resultant skywave fields from an antenna of height H = 0.311 wavelength radiating 100 milivolts per meter at the angle  ( theta) pertinent to transmission by one reflection , will be recognized as acceptable for use in lieu of the 10% skywave curve appearing in Appendix V of the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement, in computing signal intensities at the station receiving interference. It is further recognized that the 10 % Skywave Signal Range Curves, 540 kilocycles to 1600 kilocycles, will be applied only to allocation matters on regional channels, and is not considered applicable to allocation matters as between Class II stations on clear channels, in which cases Appendix V will be controlling.

"2. Angles of Departure versus Transmission Range. "(a) The attached family of curves entitled ' Angles of Departure versus Transmission Range' for use in the band 540

Dec. 24, 1947 62 STAT. ] CANADA- RADIO BROADCASTING-
Apr. 1 , 1948
kilocycles to 1600 kilocycles will be recognized as acceptable for use concurrently with the 10 % Skywave Signal Range Curves (Figure 1-A) for determining the value of an interfering signal to an existing station.
"(b) The antenna system's maximum theoretical radiated field which exists between the limits defined by curves 4 and 5 for the pertinent angle of departure  ( theta ) will be used to compute, from Figure 1-A, the interfering signal .
"3. 50% Root-Sum- Square. "(a) Objectionable interference shall be deemed to exist to a station when the root-sum-square value of interfering field intensities, except in the case of Class IV stations on local channels, is increased to exceed that value obtained by considering the signals in order of decreasing magnitude, adding the squares of the values and extracting the square root of the sum, excluding those signals which are less than 50% of the root-sum-square value of the higher signals already included.
"(b) The root-sum-square value will not be considered to be increased when a new interfering signal is added which is less than 50% of the root- sum-square value of the interference from existing stations, and which at the same time is not greater than the smallest signal included in the rootsum-square value of interference from existing stations. "(c) It is recognized that application of the above '50% exclusion' method of calculating root-sum-square interference may result in some cases in anomalies wherein the addition of a new interfering signal or the increase in value of an existing interfering signal will cause the exclusion of a previously included signal and may cause a decrease in the calculated root-sum-square value of interference. In such instances, the following alternate method for calculating the proposed root-sum-square values of interference will be employed wherever applicable. "(d) In the cases where it is proposed to add a new interfering signal which is not less than 50 % of the root- sumsquare value of interference from existing stations or which is greater than the smallest signal already included to obtain this root-sum -square value, the root- sum-square limitation after addition of the new signal shall be calculated without excluding any signal previously included . Similarly, in cases where it is proposed to increase the value of one of the existing interfering signals which has been included in the root-sum-square value, the root-sum-square limitation after the increase shall be calculated without excluding interference from any source previously included.
"(e) If the new or increased signal proposed in such cases is ultimately accepted, the root-sum-square values of inter-

2653

2654

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
ference to other stations affected will thereafter be calculated by the '50% exclusion' method without regard to the alternate method of calculation .
" ( f) The 50 % root -sum-square rule is recognized as applicable between any and all Class III stations on regional channels and between only Class II stations on clear channels.
I suggest that, if an agreement in the sense of the foregoing paragraphs is acceptable to the Government of Canada, this note and your reply thereto in similar terms be regarded as constituting the terms of an understanding on the subject between the two Governments.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
For the Acting Secretary of State : GARRISON NORTON
Enclosures : Two Graphs as follows : 1. "10% Skywave Signal Range, 540 kilocycles to 1600 kilocycles". 2. "Angles of Departure versus Transmission Range".
His Excellency HUME WRONG, Ambassador of Canada.

2655

1000 2

SKSYRIWAGANNVGA1%EL0 A

1

156K4T0C0o

HMFOEIYUDEEFRTILAOLHAD1%RFEYNS0 PROPAGBAAT1SI9OEO4ND4

REASSNKUFTYLIEFWTENRALANOVDNAMETS

RADI0HAA.ENT3ITGI1G1mHALN1OH0/mv=EOTHGAF0

10.:0

TRARNPESEFMRLITESICSNTOIETNBONOEYNT

7

DAepcr.. 24, 1947 1 , 1948

PATH MID-POINT LATITUDE

MICROVOLTS PER METER 13

CANADA- RADIO BROADCASTING-

50%

200

40

800

1000

1200 MI1L4E00S

1600

1800

2000

2200

2400

2600

62 STAT.]

2656

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

90

90 ANGLES OF DEPARTURE
VERSUS

TRANSMISSION RANGE

80

80

e FOR 1000 KC AVERAGE He

e FOR 1000 KC MAXIMUM He

e FOR 1000 KC MINIMUM He AND 5 CONTAIN ALSO AN ESTIMATED

CORRECTION FOR DEVIATION FROM

MID-POINT REFLECTION

70

FOR USE IN BAND 540 1600 Kc

60 50

40

30

20

20 10

200

400

600

800

1000

1200

1400

D - MILES

62 STAT. ] CANADA- RADIO BROADCASTING- Dec. 24, 1947 Apr. 1 , 1948

The Canadian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA

No. 135

APRIL 1, 1948.

SIR : I have the honour to refer to the note dated December 24th, 1947,
and its enclosures, from the Acting Secretary of State concerning the matter of a mutual understanding between Representatives of the Government of the United States and Representatives of the Government of Canada as to engineering standards applicable to the allocation of standard broadcasting stations in the Band of frequencies extending from 540 to 1600 Kilocycles.
I am directed by my Government to inform you that an Agreement in the sense described in the Note under reference from the Acting Secretary of State is acceptable to it and that the note from the Acting Secretary of State and this reply be regarded as constituting the terms of an understanding on the subject, effective as of today's date, between the Government of the United States and the Government of Canada.
I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient Servant. HH WRONG

The Honourable GEORGE C. MARSHALL, Secretary of State, Washington, D.C.

2657 Ante, p. 2652.

2658

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

July 19, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1803]

Agreement between the United States of America and Yugoslavia, and accompanying aide-mémoire and notes respecting the settlement of pecuniary claims against Yugoslavia. Signed at Washington July 19, 1948; entered into force July 19, 1948.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE FEDERAL PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA REGARDING PECUNIARY CLAIMS OF THE UNITED STATES AND ITS
NATIONALS
The Government of the United States of America and the Govern ment of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia , being desirous of effecting an expeditious and equitable settlement of claims of the United States of America and of its nationals against Yugoslavia, have agreed upon the following articles :

Article 1

Payment by Yugo- (a) The Government of Yugoslavia agrees to pay, and the Governslavia.
ment of the United States agrees to accept, the sum of $ 17,000,000 United States currency in full settlement and discharge of all pecuniary claims of the Government of the United States against the Government of Yugoslavia, other than those arising from Lend-Lease and civilian supplies furnished as military relief, arising between September 1 , 1939 and the date hereof, and in full settlement and discharge of all claims of nationals of the United States against the Government of Yugoslavia on account of the nationalization and other taking by Yugoslavia of property and of rights and interests in and with respect to property, which occurred between September 1 , 1939 and the date hereof.
(b) Such payment by the Government of Yugoslavia shall be made to the Secretary of State of the United States of America within
forty-five days after the signing of this Agreement. (c ) If, upon adjudication made by the agency established or
otherwise designated by the Government of the United States to adjudicate claims settled under this Agreement, it is found that the sum of $ 17,000,000 payable by the Government of Yugoslavia under the provisions of the Agreement is in excess of the total sum of the claims determined to be valid , exclusive of any interest on such claims for the period beginning on the date of the payment referred to in paragraph (a ) of this Article, plus the costs of adjudication , if any, not borne by the claimants, the Government of the United States shall take the necessary steps to return such excess amount to the Government of Yugoslavia.

62 STAT. ]

YUGOSLAVIA-CLAIMS-JULY 19, 1948

2659

Article 2
The claims of nationals of the United States to which reference is made in Article 1 of this Agreement include those respecting property, and rights and interests in and with respect to property, which at the time of nationalization or other taking were:
(A) Directly owned by an individual who at such time was a national of the United States.
(B) Directly owned by a juridical person organized under the laws of the United States, or a constituent state or other political entity thereof, twenty percent or more of any class of the outstanding securities of which were at such time owned by individual nationals of the United States, directly , or indirectly through interests in one or more juridical persons of whatever nationality, or otherwise ; or
(C) Indirectly owned by an individual within category (A) above, or by a juridical person within category (B) above, through interests , direct, or indirect in one or more juridical persons not within category (B) above, or otherwise.

Claims included .

Article 3

The claims of nationals of the United States to which reference is Claims excluded .

made in Article 1 of this Agreement do not include claims of individual nationals of the United States who did not possess such nationality

at the time of the nationalization or other taking, which claims shall be subject to compensation by the Government of Yugoslavia , either by direct negotiations between that Government and the respective claimants or under compensation procedures prescribed by Yugoslav law.

Article 4

Non-waiver of Yu(a) Nothing herein contained shall constitute or be construed to goslav claims against
U. S. nationals.
constitute a waiver or release by the Government of Yugoslavia of

any claims it or any Yugoslav national may have against any national of the United States.
(b) Claimants against the Government of Yugoslavia for compensation on account of the nationalization or other taking of enterprises,

Claims against Yu-
gtoisonlaalviizaarteisopne, cteticn.g,nao-f enterprises.

whose claims with respect to such nationalization or other taking are

claims which are fully settled and discharged by this Agreement,

receiving payment out of the funds to be paid by the Government of Yugoslavia under Article 1 of this Agreement shall be deemed to have undertaken to hold the Government of Yugoslavia, and the respective

successor enterprises established by such Government, harmless against, and to have assumed, all debt obligations, including guaran-

tees, of the enterprises of which such claimants were formerly the owners, to nationals of countries other than Yugoslavia, valid and subsisting as of the date hereof, incurred not for the benefit of such enterprises, but for the benefit of the owners thereof ; but such assump-

tion and undertaking shall be applicable only to such proportion of

2660

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
such obligations as such claimants ' interests in such enterprises , at the date of the nationalization or other taking thereof, bore to the total ownership interests therein . Debt obligations, including guarantees , owing to nationals of countries other than Yugoslavia , incurred prior to the time such claimants became nationals of the United States , shall be deemed subject to such assumption and undertaking in the absence of proof that such obligations , including guarantees , were incurred for the benefit of such enterprises.
(c) The Government of Yugoslavia recognizes the obligation of the successor enterprises created by it with respect to debts valid under Yugoslav law which were incurred prior to the nationalization or other taking, for the benefit of the enterprises nationalized or otherwise taken, provided , however, that there shall be deemed fully settled and discharged all debt obligations of enterprises , nationalized or otherwise taken, owing to nationals of the United States whose claims. against the Government of Yugoslavia with respect to the nationalization or other taking of such enterprises are claims which are fully settled and discharged by this agreement ; and further that all debt obligations of such enterprises to juridical persons through which the
claims of such claimants are derived shall be deemed settled and discharged in the same proportion as such claimants ' interests in such enterprises , at the date of the nationalization or other taking thereof,
bore to the total ownership interests therein.

Article 5

Use, etc., of assets in Yugoslavia by U.S. nationals.

The Government of Yugoslavia agrees to accord to nationals of the United States lawfully continuing to hold , or hereafter acquiring assets in Yugoslavia, the rights and privileges of using and administering such assets and the income therefrom within the framework of the

controls and regulations of the Government of Yugoslavia , on condi-

tions not less favorable than the rights and privileges accorded to nationals of Yugoslavia, or of any other country, in accordance with the Convention of Commerce and Navigation between the United

States of America and the Prince of Serbia, signed at Belgrade ,

22 Stat. 963.

October 2-14, 1881.

Article 6

Trademarks, etc.

The Government of Yugoslavia agrees not to employ or to permit the employment of trademarks, company names and trade names formerly used in Yugoslavia by enterprises , now nationalized , which were, at the time of such nationalization substantially owned , directly or indirectly, by nationals of the United States to the extent that such trademarks , company names and trade names are counterparts of trademarks , company names and trade names used elsewhere than in
Yugoslavia by the former American owners of such enterprises , directly or through subsidiaries, or by their authority ; provided , however, that nothing herein contained shall prejudice the right of the Government of Yugoslavia, or any national thereof, to employ such trademarks , company names and trade names with the consent of the former

owners of such enterprises, or others authorized to permit the use thereof. The Government of Yugoslavia will take such measures as

62 STAT. ]

YUGOSLAVIA- CLAIMS-JULY 19, 1948

may be necessary and appropriate to prevent the use of such trademarks, company names and trade names within Yugoslavia, except with such consent or in connection with products imported into Yugoslavia with respect to which the use of such trademarks, company names and trade names is permitted by or on behalf of the former owners of such enterprises, or others authorized to permit the use thereof. This Agreement does not affect in any way the rights, if any, of nationals of the United States with respect to trademarks, trade names and company names which were used in Yugoslavia by enterprises which have been taken other than by nationalization .

2661

Article 7

Claims of nationals of the United States for war damage to property Claims of U. S. nationals for war dam-
which has not been nationalized or otherwise taken prior to the date age. hereof shall be treated not less favorably than those of nationals of

Yugoslavia, but in no event less favorably than those of the nationals of any other country.

Article 8
The funds payable to the Government of the United States under Article 1 of this Agreement shall be distributed to the Government of

Distribution of fGuonvdesrpnamyeanbtle. to U. 8.

the United States and among the several claimants, respectively , in accordance with such methods of distribution as may be adopted by

the Government of the United States. Any determinations with

respect to the validity or amounts of individual claims which may be made by the agency established or otherwise designated by the Govern-

ment of the United States to adjudicate such claims shall be final and binding.

Article 9 Necessary evidence,
(a) In the interests of an equitable distribution by the Govern- depositions, etc.

ment of the United States among the several claimants for participation in the amount to be paid by the Government of Yugoslavia in full settlement and discharge of claims in accordance with this Agreement, the Government of Yugoslavia will, upon the request of the Government of the United States, and to the extent possible, bearing

in mind the wide-spread destruction of property and books and records in Yugoslavia caused by the war, furnish such information , including certified copies of books , records or other documents, as may be necessary or appropriate to support or refute, in whole or in part , any claim for participation in such amount, and to the same end will permit, in a manner consistent with Yugoslav law, the taking of depositions of such witnesses as may be requested by the Government of the United States.
(b) In the interest of protecting the Government of Yugoslavia subCmeritsisfiioends,ceotpci.es of

from the possible assertion through third countries, or otherwise, of claims falling within the scope of this Agreement, the Government of the United States will supply to the Government of Yugoslavia, certified copies of such formal submissions as may be made by claimants to such agency as may be established or otherwise designated by the

Government of the United States to adjudicate claims to participation

2662

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

in the funds to be paid by the Government of Yugoslavia pursuant to this Agreement and of the corresponding awards of such agency with respect thereto. A certified copy of each such submission and award
will be supplied to the Government of Yugoslavia within a reasonable time after its receipt or announcement. Subject to such rules and regulations as may be established with respect to proceedings of such agency, the Government of the United States further agrees to make available to the Government of Yugoslavia, upon its request, certified copies of transcripts of any proceedings before such agency and certified copies of documents submitted to such agency in support or in refutation, in whole or in part, of any claim submitted thereto . YuFgiolsilnagvioaf. briefs by Subject to such rules and regulations, and with the consent of such agency, the Government of Yugoslavia may file briefs as amicus curiae with respect to any specific claims.

Article 10

Authorization by Yugoslavia for meeting of indebtedness.

(a) The Government of Yugoslavia shall authorize persons residing in Yugoslavia who are legally indebted to any individual , firm , or governmental agency in the United States, to meet such indebtedness

on maturity.

(b) To the extent feasible, considering Yugoslav foreign exchange

resources and regulations, and when necessary to effectuate the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Article, the Government of Yugo-

slavia shall permit the use of dollars by, or provide dollars to those

Yugoslav residents legally owing dollar obligations arising from commercial transactions involving goods or services .

Article 11

Transfers of deposits in Yugoslav banks.

The Government of Yugoslavia agrees to give sympathetic consideration to applications for transfers to the United States of deposits in banks of Yugoslavia and other similar forms of capital owned by nationals of the United States , where the amounts involved are small

but which, in view of the circumstances, are of substantial importance to the persons requesting the transfers.

Entry into force.

Article 12
The present Agreement shall come into force and effect upon the date of signature .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned , being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.
DONE at Washington in duplicate this nineteenth day of July, 1948 .
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: G C MARSHALL Secretary of State
of the United States of America FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FEDERAL PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA:
OBREN BLAGOJEVIC . Deputy Minister of Finance of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia

62 STAT. ]

YUGOSLAVIA-CLAIMS-JULY 19, 1948

2663

AIDE -MÉMOIRE

Issuance of licenses Upon the signature of the Agreement between the Governments of unblocking Yugoslav

the United States of America and the Federal People's Republic of assets.

Yugoslavia regarding Pecuniary Claims of the United States and Its Nationals, the necessary licenses will be issued by the Government of

Ante, p. 2658.

the United States unblocking Yugoslav assets , public and private , and enabling the Yugoslav Government freely to use , transfer or export the gold and other assets on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of

New York in the name of the Government of Yugoslavia in excess of the amount to be paid to the United States pursuant to such Agree-

ment. Concurrently, the Secretary of State will certify to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the authority of the Yugoslav Ambassador to receive, control and dispose of such assets .

Upon the issuance of such licenses and certification , and in view

of the assurances during the negotiations that the documents requested by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in its letter of

November 30 , 1945, [ ] to the Yugoslav National Bank, will , in due course, be furnished by such Bank, the Federal Reserve Bank of

New York will promptly execute the instructions of the Ambassador with respect to such assets.

All formalities with respect to the issuance of the necessary licenses

and certification will be promptly accomplished , so that such assets

will be at the free disposal of the Yugoslav Government for use,

transfer or export within five days of the signature of the aforesaid

Agreement.

JBK

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, July 19, 1948

The Secretary of State to the Yugoslav Ambassador

The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency, the Ambassador of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia and has the honor to inform the Ambassador that the United States Gov-

Dollar bonds issued by predecessor Yugoslav governments.

ernment understands from the Embassy's communication No. Pov.

Br. 407 of April 2 , 1946 , [' ] that the Government of the Federal People's

Republic of Yugoslavia recognizes among its other international obligations the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by predecessor

Yugoslav governments ; and inquires whether the Ambassador would

confirm this interpretation.

JBK

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, July 19, 1948 ' Not printed.

2664

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
The Yugoslav Ambassador to the Secretary of State EMBASSY OF THE FEDERAL PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA WASHINGTON
Pov. br. 767
The Ambassador of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia presents his compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has the honor to acknowledge the note of July 19, 1948 , from the Secretary of State in which it was stated that the United States Government understands from this Embassy's communication No. Pov . Br. 407 of April 2 , 1946 , that the Government of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia recognizes among its other international obligations, the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by predecessor Yugoslav governments.
In his note of July 19 , 1948 , the Secretary of State inquires whether the Ambassador would confirm this interpretation .
The Ambassador of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia confirms the interpretation of the United States Government of this Embassy's communication No. Pov. Br, 407 of April 2 , 1946 , and states that his Government will consider means of discharging such obligations when Yugoslavia's economic condition , seriously injured by the ravages of war, and her foreign exchange position permit.
WASHINGTON, D. C. , July 19 , 1948.

Y U G O S L A V

Y S S A B M E

WASHINGTON
The Honorable THE SECRETARY OF STATE Washington, D. C.

S. N. K.

The Secretary of State to the Yugoslav Ambassador
The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency the Ambassador of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia and has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the Ambassador's note No. Pov. Br. 767 , of July 19 , 1948 , reading as follows:
"The Ambassador of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia presents his compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of State and has the honor to acknowledge the note of July 19 , 1948 from the Secretary of State in which it was stated that the United States Government understands from this Embassy's communication No. Pov. Br. 407 of April 2 , 1946 , that the Government of the

62 STAT. ]

YUGOSLAVIA-CLAIMS-JULY 19, 1948

Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia recognizes among its other international obligations, the dollar bonds issued or guaranteed by predecessor Yugoslav governments.
"In his note of July 19 , 1948 , the Secretary of State inquires whether the Ambassador would confirm this interpretation .
"The Ambassador of the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia confirms the interpretation of the United States Government of this Embassy's communication No. Pov. Br. 407 of April 2 , 1946 , and states that his Government will consider means of discharging such obligations when Yugoslavia's economic condition , seriously injured by the ravages of war , and her foreign exchange position permit. "

The Secretary of State has taken due note of the foregoing note of

July 19, 1948, from the Ambassador of the Federal People's Republic

of Yugoslavia.

JB K

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, July 19, 1948

2665

2666

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

March 22, 24, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1804]

Agreement between the United States of America and Venezuela respecting a civil aviation mission . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Caracas March 22 and 24 , 1948; entered into force March 24 , 1948.

The Venezuelan Minister of Foreign Relations to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
ESTADOS UNIDOS DE VENEZUELA MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES DIRECCION DE POLITICA INTERNACIONAL SECCION DE RELACIONES INTERAMERICANAS

No. 1053

CARACAS , 22 de marzo de 1948

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS:
Con el fín de proveer asistencia técnica que contribuya al desarrollo de la aviación civil venezolana , y como resultado de las negociaciones efectuadas por los organismos competentes, los Gobiernos de los Estados Unidos de Venezuela y de los Estados Unidos de América han convenido en celebrar, por cambio de notas, el acuerdo contenido en las cláusulas siguientes :
1. - El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América enviará a
Venezuela, según las disponibilidades de técnicos adecuados y fondos dedicados a este objeto , una Misión de Aeronáutica Civil destinada a asesorar a las autoridades competentes venezolanas en los aspectos técnicos de la aviación civil.
2. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América designará un Jefe de Misión que representará a la misma ante el Gobierno de Venezuela, y sus Miembros serán responsables ante dicho Jefe . Los integrantes de la Misión actuarán como asesores y no como agentes ejecutivos, y a solicitud del Ministerio de Comunicaciones suministrarán su opinión sobre los casos específicos que le sean presentados en consulta. También podrán, por su propia iniciativa emitir opinión sobre los casos que lo requieran ; y sus dictámenes tendrán el caracter de meras recomendaciones.
3.- La duración del cargo de cada técnico será fijada de acuerdo con las necesidades propias de la misión que se le asigne, con la excepción de que los cargos podrán ser de duración indefinida, sujeta a revisión conjunta cuando esto sea posible legal y administrativamente.
4.- El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América acuerda otorgar la mayor consideración a cualesquiera solicitudes del Gobierno de Venezuela , para aumentar o disminuir el número de técnicos originalmente enviados , o para el nombramiento de técnicos en otros aspectos de la aviación civil .
5. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América pagará los salarios , compensaciones monetarias , viáticos y gastos de viaje desde los Estados Unidos de América hasta Venezuela y regreso y cualquiera

62 STAT. ] VENEZUELA-CIVIL AVIATION MISSION- MAR, 22, 24, 1948
compensación adicional de los técnicos ; y el Gobierno de Venezuela efectuará el reembolso parcial de esos gastos hasta tres mil dólares anuales por cada técnico .
El Gobierno de Venezuela efectuará el reembolso parcial a que se refiere el párrafo anterior al completarse cada período de seis meses a partir de la fecha del nombramiento . Sin embargo , por razones de contabilidad y procedimiento, no será necesario que el Gobierno de Venezuela efectue pago alguno al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, hasta el momento en que reciba un estado de cuentas al respecto.
6.- El Gobierno de Venezuela costeará los gastos de viaje de los Miembros de la Misión cuando éstos deban ausentarse de Caracas en
el desempeño de sus funciones, así como también los gastos de adquisición de equipos y materiales que la Misión crea necesario obtener ; y siempre que sea menester usar transporte automotor en el ejercicio de las funciones de la Misión el Gobierno de Venezuela suministrará
los vehículos requeridos con sujeción a las limitaciones impuestas por las condiciones locales.
7.- Los equipos y materiales que deban importarse para ser utilizados directamente en el Programa de fomento de la aviación civil se introducirán al país por órgano del Ministerio de Comunicaciones .
8. Los Miembros de la Misión quedan exentos del impuesto sobre la renta por las sumas que en calidad de remuneración reciban del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América ; y sus importaciones de
uso conveniente para el mejor cumplimiento de sus funciones serán exoneradas de los correspondientes derechos de aduana .
9.- El Ministerio de Comunicaciones proveerá a la Misión de oficinas debidamente equipadas , con un personal idóneo de estenográfos biligües, además de los otros empleados necesarios , y pagará los gastos ocasionados por el funcionamiento de dichas oficinas y los sueldos de su personal .
10.- El personal de la Misión no podrá revelar ni divulgar en ninguna forma , durante el ejercicio de sus funciones ni después de éstas, los asuntos secretos y confidenciales que puedan llegar a su conocimiento en el ejercicio de sus labores.
11. - El Gobierno de Venezuela otorgará a los Miembros autorizados de la Misión su aprobación para efectuar vuelos en Venezuela en aviones de registro venezolano según se considere conveniente para el cumplimiento de sus funciones .
12. - Por medio de pólizas que se estimen adecuadas por ambas partes, el Gobierno de Venezuela asegurará a los Miembros de la Misión contra responsabilidad civil por daño o pérdida de propiedad, por daños personales y muertes causadas por cualquier Miembro de la Misión mientras actúe dentro de sus atribuciones .
13. Este Acuerdo permanecerá en vigencia por un período de tres años contado desde la fecha de su celebración, y podrá ser modificado en su totalidad o en parte por cambio de notas entre los dos Gobiernos.

2667

2668

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes podrá denunciar el presente Acuerdo por medio de notificación escrita que solo tendrá efecto sesenta días despues de su presentación a la otra parte.
Esta comunicación y la respuesta de Vuestra Señoría en términos análogos, constituirán un Acuerdo sobre lo consignado en las cláusulas precedentes .
Con referencia a la cláusula 4 de este Acuerdo es entendido que el número inicial de Miembros de la Misión será determinado de conformidad con las indicaciones del Ministerio de Comunicaciones de Venezuela.
Válgome de esta oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Señoría las seguridades de mi distinguida consideración .
ANDRÉS ELOY BLANCO Al Honorable Señor
JOHN WILLARD CARRIGAN Encargado de Negocios ad-interim de los Estados Unidos de América. Presente.
Translation
UNITED STATES OF VENEZUELA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL POLICY SECTION OF INTER-AMERICAN RELATIONS

No. 1053 MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

CARACAS , March 22, 1948

For the purpose of providing technical assistance that will contribute

to the development of Venezuelan civil aviation , and as a result of negotiations carried on between the competent agencies , the Government of the United States of Venezuela and the United States of

America have agreed to conclude, by an exchange of notes, the

agreement contained in the following clauses:

U. S. Civil Aero-

nautics Mission.

1. According to the availability of suitable technical experts and

funds for this purpose, the Government of the United States of

America will send to Venezuela a Civil Aeronautics Mission to advise

the appropriate Venezuelan authorities on the technical aspects of civil aviation. Chief of Mission, 2. The Government of the United States of America will appoint a etc. Chief of Mission who will represent the Mission before the Govern-

ment of Venezuela , and its Members shall be responsible to that Chief. The members of the Mission shall act as technical advisers

and not as executive agents , and at the request of the Ministry of

Communications they will give their opinions on specific matters submitted to them. On their own initiative they may also give opin-

Duration ofappointments.

ions on matters that so require ; and their opinions shall have the character of recommendations only.
3. The duration of the appointment of each technician shall be fixed in accordance with the requirements of the mission assigned to

him, except that appointments may be of indefinite duration, subject

to joint revision when this is legally and administratively possible .

62 STAT.] VENEZUELA-CIVIL AVIATION MISSION- MAR. 22, 24, 1948

2669

4. The Government of the United States of America agrees to give Post, p. 2670.

the greatest consideration to any requests of the Government of

Venezuela to increase or decrease the number of technicians originally

sent, or to appoint technicians in other branches of civil aviation .

5. The Government of the United States of America will pay the

U. S. payment of salaries, etc.

salaries, compensation, per diem and traveling expenses from the

United States of America to Venezuela and return , and any additional Partial reimburse-
compensation of the technicians ; and the Government of Venezuela ment by Venezuela.

will make partial reimbursement of those expenses up to three thou-

sand dollars a year for each technician .

The Government of Venezuela will make the partial reimbursement

referred to in the preceding paragraph at the end of each six-months period beginning with the date of the appointment . However, for

reasons of accounting and procedure , it will not be necessary for the Government of Venezuela to make any payment to the Government of the United States of America until such time as a statement of account is received.
6. The Government of Venezuela will bear the traveling expenses VeEnxepzeunesleas. borne by

of the Members of the Mission when the discharge of their duties

requires them to absent themselves from Caracas, as well as the cost

of equipment and materials which the Mission considers it necessary to obtain. Whenever it is necessary to use automobile transportation in the discharge of the Mission's duties, the Government of Venezuela

Automobile transportation .

will furnish the required vehicles , subject to the limitations imposed

by local conditions.

7. The equipment and material that must be imported for direct

Imported equipment and material.

use in the civil aviation development program will be brought into the country through the Ministry of Communications .
8. The Members of the Mission are exempted from income tax on moneys they receive as remuneration from the Government of the

Tax exemptions for Members.

United States of America ; and their imports for use in the fulfillment

of their functions shall be exempted from customs duties . 9. The Ministry of Communications will provide the Mission with

Offices, etc.

properly equipped offices , with a competent staff of bilingual stenographers, and other necessary employees , and will bear the expenses of these offices and the salaries of their personnel .
10. The personnel of the Mission shall not reveal or divulge in any way, either during or after the exercise of their duties , the secret and

Security .

confidential matters that may come to their knowledge in the process

of carrying on their work. 11. The Government of Venezuela will grant to the authorized
Members of the Mission its approval for flights in Venezuela in air-

Flights in airplanes of Venezuelan regis-
try.

planes of Venezuelan registry, as may be considered advisable for the fulfillment of their duties.
12. By means of policies that are deemed suitable by both parties , the Government of Venezuela will insure the Members of the Mission

Insurance of Members against civil re-
sponsibilities .

against civil responsibility for damage or loss of property , for personal injuries and deaths caused by any Member of the Mission while he is acting in line of duty.

2670 Duration, etc. Denunciation.
Ante, p. 2669.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
13. This Agreement shall remain in effect for a period of three years beginning with the date of its conclusion , and it may be modified in its entirety or in part by an exchange of notes between the two Governments .
Either of the Contracting Parties may denounce the present Agreement by means of written notification , which shall become effective sixty days after its presentation to the other party.
This communication and Your Excellency's reply in analogous terms shall constitute an Agreement on the matters contained in the preceding clauses .
With reference to clause 4 of this Agreement , it is understood that the initial number of Members of the Mission shall be determined in conformity with the suggestions of the Ministry of Communications of Venezuela .
I take this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my distinguished consideration.
ANDRÉS ELOY BLANCO The Honorable
JOHN WILLARD CARRIGAN Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America. City.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Venezuelan Minister of Foreign Relations

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 75

CARACAS, March 24 , 1948.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's Note No. 1053 of March 22 , 1948 in which Your Excellency submitted to this Embassy

the text of the accord reached in negotiations between representatives of the Governments of the United States of America and of the

United States of Venezuela regarding the assignment to Your Excel-

lency's Government of a technical civil aviation mission of the Civil

Aeronautics Administration of my Government and stated that this text was acceptable to Your Excellency's Government.

It had been agreed that an exchange of notes between Your Excel-

lency's Government and my Government would constitute mutual

acceptance of the text of this agreement by our respective Govern-

ments, and that the agreement would be effective immediately upon

the completion of such exchange.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the text of this

agreement as contained in Your Excellency's note under reference

62 STAT. ] VENEZUELA- CIVIL AVIATION MISSION- MAR. 22, 24, 1948

2671

above is acceptable to my Government . It reads , quoting from Your Excellency's note :
[For the Spanish language text of this note, see p . 2666. ]
The exchange of notes having been completed , I am informing my Government that the accord reached is effective as of today.
I have the honor to express to Your Excellency in the name of those of my colleagues who participated in the conversations leading to the conclusion of this accord their sincere appreciation , which I heartily share, for the advice, guidance and collaboration given by those officers of Your Excellency's Ministry and of other Ministries of the Government of Venezuela who contributed so effectively to the successful outcome of these conversations .
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JOHN W. CARRIGAN .
His Excellency Dr. ANDRES ELOY BLANCO,
Minister of Foreign Relations , Ministry of Foreign Relations, Caracas.

Effective date.

2672

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

May 13, 1948 T. I. A. S. 1805]

Agreement between the United States of America , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and France, and the Bankfor International Settlements respecting the restitution of gold looted by Germany and transferred to the Bank for International Settlements . Effected by exchanges of letters signed at Washington May 13, 1948; entered into force May 13, 1948.

The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Bank for International Settlements, to the Government Representatives of the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS

THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

WASHINGTON, D. C. May 13, 1948

GENTLEMEN :

Delivery of gold by Bankfor International
Settlements.

Representatives of the Governments of the United States of America , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and France , on the one hand, and of the Bank for International

Settlements on the other , have conferred in Washington on the sub-

ject of gold transferred by Germany to the Bank for International

Settlements and have agreed that the Bank for International Settle-

ments shall deliver in London to the three Governments upon demand

3740 kilograms of fine gold .

Respectfully yours,

MAURICE FRÈRE

To the REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GOVERNMENTS of the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and France.

The Government Representatives of the United States of America , France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Bank for International Settlements WASHINGTON, D. C. May 13, 1948
DEAR MR. FRÈRE : We are in receipt of your letter of this date as follows :
"Representatives of the Governments of the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and France , on the one hand , and of the Bank for International Settlements on the other, have conferred in Washington on

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- RESTITUTION OF PROPERTY- MAY 13, 1948

2673

the subject of gold transferred by Germany to the Bank for International Settlements and have agreed that the Bank for International Settlements shall deliver in London to the three Governments upon demand 3740 kilograms of fine gold . "

The three Governments, acting in their own behalf and in behalf of all of the other governments signatory to the Paris Reparations Agreement of January 24, 1946 , and of the banks of issue of the 61 Stat . , Pt . 3,
p. 3157. signatory governments, agree that, in accepting delivery of such
amount of gold, they waive all claims against the Bank for International Settlements with regard to looted gold transferred to it by Germany .
Respectfully yours,
WILLARD L THORP. On behalf of the Government of the United States of America

CHRISTIAN VALENSI On behalf of the Government of France

To: Mr. MAURICE FRÈRE,

J. E. CHADWICK
On behalf of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

Chairman of the Board of Directors,

Bank for International Settlements

The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Bank for International Settlements, to the Government Representatives of the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS

THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENTLEMEN :

WASHINGTON, D. C. May 13, 1948

During the conferences

on

gold

transferred

by

Germany to the

Gold transferred to National Bank of

Bank for International Settlements we advised you that 374.33436 Hungary.

kilograms of gold looted by Germany , and subsequently transferred by the German Reichsbank to the Bank for International Settlements, were thereafter transferred to the account of the National Bank of Hungary.
We should appreciate being advised whether such gold was included in the calculations which led to the agreement contained in our letter of this date, that the Bank for International Settlements will deliver

2674

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
in London upon demand 3740 kilograms of fine gold to the Governments of the United States, United Kingdom and France.
Respectfully yours, MAURICE FRÈRE
To the REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GOVERNMENTS of the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and France.

The Government Representatives of the United States of America, France,

and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to

the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Bank for International Settlements

DEAR MR . FRÈRE:

WASHINGTON, D. C. May 13, 1948

We are in receipt of your letter of this date in the following terms :

"During the conferences on gold transferred by Germany to the Bank for International Settlements we advised you that 374.33436 kilograms of gold looted by Germany, and subsequently transferred by the German Reichsbank to the Bank for International Settlements, were thereafter transferred to the account of the National Bank of Hungary.

"We should appreciate being advised whether such gold was included in the calculations which led to the agreement contained in our letter of this date, that the Bank for International Settlements will deliver in London upon demand 3740 kilograms of fine gold to the Governments of the United States, United Kingdom and France . "

We hereby confirm that all such gold was included in the calcula-

tions which led to the agreement referred to in your letter.

Respectfully yours,

WILLARD L. THORP.

On behalf of the Government of the

United States of America

CHRISTIAN VALENSI On behalf of the Government of France
J. E. CHADWICK

On behalf of the Government of the

To : Mr. MAURICE FRÈRE

United Kingdom of Great Britain. and Northern Ireland

Chairman of the Board of Directors Bank for International Settlements

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-RESTITUTION OF PROPERTY- MAY 13, 1948

The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Bank for International Settlements, to the Government Representatives of the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

BANQUE DES REGLEMENTS INTERNATIONAUX
LE PRÉSIDENT DU CONSEIL D'ADMINISTRATION

MESSIEURS ,

WASHINGTON, D. C. Le 13 mai 1948.

Les representants des Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amerique, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , et de la Republique Francaise, d'une part, et de la Banque des Reglements Internationaux, d'autre part, ont confere a Washington sur la question de l'or transfere par l'Allemagne a la Banque des Reglements Internationaux, et sont convenus que la Banque des Reglements Internationaux livrera a Londres aux trois Gouvernements, sur leur

demande, 3740 kilogrammes d'or fin./. Veuillez agreer, Messieurs , les assurances de ma haute consideration . Le President du Conseil d'Administration : MAURICE FRÈRE

A Messieurs les REPRESENTANTS DES GOUVERNEMENTS des Etats-Unis d'Amerique, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord et de la Republique Francaise.

The Government Representatives of the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Chairman ofthe Board of Directors , Bankfor International Settlements

MONSIEUR LE PRESIDENT,

WASHINGTON, D. C. Le 18 mai 1948.

Nous avons l'honneur d'accuser reception de votre lettre de ce jour ainsi concue:

"Les representants des Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amerique, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , et de la Republique Francaise, d'une part , et de la Banque des Reglements Internationaux, d'autre part, ont confere a Washington sur la question de l'or transfere par l'Allemagne a la Banque des Reglements Internationaux, et sont convenus que la Banque des Reglements Internationaux livrera a Londres aux trois Gouvernements, sur leur demande, 3740 kilogrammes d'or fin./."
Nos trois Gouvernements, agissant en leur nom et au nom de tous les autres Gouvernements signataires de l'accord de Paris sur les Reparations en date du 24 janvier 1946 , et des Banques d'emission des Gouvernements signataires, conviennent que, en acceptant la livraison de la quantite d'or en question, ils abandonnent toutes reclamations
68706-52- PT. III- -5

2675

2676

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
a l'egard de la Banque des Reglements Internationaux au sujet de l'or pille qui lui a ete transfere par l'Allemagne./.
Veuillez agreer , Monsieur le President, l'assurance de notre haute consideration .
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amerique :
WILLARD L THORP.
Pour le Gouvernement de la Republique Francaise :
CHRISTIAN VALENSI
Pour le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord : J. E. CHADWICK
Monsieur MAURICE FRERE , President du Conseil d'Administration , Banque des Reglements Internationaux.

The Chairman of the Board of Directors , Bank for International Settlements, to the Government Representatives of the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

BANQUE DES REGLEMENTS INTERNATIONAUX

LE PRÉSIDENT DU CONSEIL D'ADMINISTRATION
MESSIEURS,

WASHINGTON, D. C. Le 18 mai 1948.

Au cours des reunions sur l'or transfere par l'Allemagne a la Banque

des Reglements Internationaux, nous vous avons fait savoir que 374,33436 kilogrammes d'or pille par l'Allemagne, et ulterieurement

livre par la Deutsche Reichsbank a la Banque des Reglements Internationaux, ont ete ensuite transferes au compte de la Banque Nationale de Hongrie.

Nous vous serions obliges si vous pouviez nous faire savoir si cet or a

ete compris dans les calculs qui ont abouti a l'accord contenu dans notre lettre en date de ce jour, et suivant lequel la Banque des Reglements Internationaux livrera a Londres aux Gouvernements des

Etats-Unis d'Amerique, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , et de la Republique Francaise, sur leur demande , 3740 kilogrammes d'or fin./.
Veuillez agreer, Messieurs, les assurances de ma haute consideration .

Le President du Conseil d'Administration:

MAURICE FRÈRE

A Messieurs les REPRESENTANTS DES GOUVERNEMENTS des Etats-Unis d'Amerique, du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord et de la Republique Francaise.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- RESTITUTION OF PROPERTY-MAY 13, 1948

The Government Representatives of the United States of America, France, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Chairman ofthe Board of Directors, Bank for International Settlements

MONSIEUR LE PRESIDENT,

WASHINGTON, D. C. Le 13 mai 1948.

Nous avons l'honneur d'accuser reception de votre lettre en date de ce jour dont le texte suit:

"Au cours des reunions sur l'or transfere par l'Allemagne a la Banque des Reglements Internationaux , nous vous avons fait savoir que 374,33436 kilogrammes d'or pille par l'Allemagne , et ulterieurement livre par la Deutsche Reichsbank a la Banque des Reglements Internationaux, ont ete ensuite transferes au compte de la Banque Nationale de Hongrie.
"Nous vous serions obliges si vous pouviez nous faire savoir si cet or a ete compris dans les calculs qui ont abouti a l'accord contenu dans notre lettre en date de ce jour, et suivant lequel la Banque des Reglements Internationaux livrera a Londres aux Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amerique, du Royaume-Uni de GrandeBretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , et de la Republique Francaise, sur leur demande, 3740 kilogrammes d'or fin./. "
Nous vous confirmons par la presente que tout l'or en question a ete compris dans les calculs qui ont abouti a l'accord cite dans votre lettre./.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President, l'assurance de notre haute consideration,
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amerique :
WILLARD L. THORP.

Pour le Gouvernement de la Republique Francaise :
CHRISTIAN VALENSI

Pour le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord:

Monsieur MAURICE FRERE ,

J. E. CHADWICK

President du Conseil d'Administration ,

Banque des Reglements Internationaux.

2677

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2679

Constitution adopted by the United States of America and other governments respecting a World Health Organization . Opened for signature at New York July 22 , 1946; instrument of acceptance deposited by the United States of America June 21 , 1948; entered into force April 7, 1948; entered into force with respect to the United States of America June 21, 1948.

July 22, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1808

CONSTITUTION OF THE
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION

2680

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Principles of Con-

stitution.

THE STATES parties to this Constitution declare, in conformity

59 Stat. 1031 .

with the Charter of the United Nations, that the following principles

are basic to the happiness, harmonious relations and security of all

peoples :

Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social wellbeing and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.
The enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being without distinction of race, religion, political belief, economic or social condition .

The health of all peoples is fundamental to the attainment of peace and security and is dependent upon the fullest co-operation of individuals and States.

The achievement of any State in the promotion and protection of health is of value to all.

Unequal development in different countries in the promotion of health and control of disease , especially communicable disease, is a common danger.

Healthy development of the child is of basic importance ; the ability to live harmoniously in a changing total environment is essential to such development .

The extension to all peoples of the benefits of medical , psychological and related knowledge is essential to the fullest attainment of health.

Informed opinion and active co-operation on the part of the public are of the utmost importance in the improvement of the health of the people.

Governments have a responsibility for the health of their peoples which can be fulfilled only by the provision of adequate health and social measures.

59 Stat. 1046.

ACCEPTING THESE PRINCIPLES, and for the purpose of co -operation among themselves and with others to promote and protect the health of all peoples, the contracting parties agree to the present Constitution and hereby establish the World Health Organization as a specialized agency within the terms of Article 57 of The Charter of the United Nations .
CHAPTER I

OBJECTIVE Article 1

The objective of the World Health Organization (hereinafter called the Organization) shall be the attainment by all peoples of the highest possible level of health .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2681
CHAPTER II
FUNCTIONS
Article 2
In order to achieve its objective, the functions of the Organization shall be:
(a) to act as the directing and co-ordinating authority on international health work ;
(b) to establish and maintain effective collaboration with the United Nations, specialized agencies , governmental health administrations, professional groups and such other organizations as may be deemed appropriate ;
(c) to assist governments, upon request, in strengthening health services ;
(d) to furnish appropriate technical assistance and , in emergencies, necessary aid upon the request or acceptance of governments ;
(e) to provide or assist in providing, upon the request of the United Nations, health services and facilities to special groups, such as the peoples of trust territories ;
(f) to establish and maintain such administrative and technical services as may be required , including epidemiological and statistical services ;
(g) to stimulate and advance work to eradicate epidemic , endemic and other diseases ;
(h) to promote, in co -operation with other specialized agencies where necessary, the prevention of accidental injuries ;
(i) to promote, in co-operation with other specialized agencies where necessary, the improvement of nutrition , housing , sanitation, recreation , economic or working conditions and other aspects of environmental hygiene ;
) to promote co-operation among scientific and professional groups which contribute to the advancement of health ;
(k) to propose conventions, agreements and regulations , and make recommendations with respect to international health matters and to perform such duties as may be assigned thereby to the Organization and are consistent with its objective ;
(1) to promote maternal and child health and welfare and to foster the ability to live harmoniously in a changing total environment ;
(m) to foster activities in the field of mental health, especially those affecting the harmony of human relations ;
(n) to promote and conduct research in the field of health ; (0) to promote improved standards of teaching and training in the
health, medical and related professions ; (p) to study and report on, in co-operation with other specialized
agencies where necessary, administrative and social techniques

2682
Post, p. 2694. Post , p. 2694 . Post, p. 2692.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

affecting public health and medical care from preventive and curative points of view, including hospital services and social security ; (q ) to provide information , counsel and assistance in the field of health ; (r) to assist in developing an informed public opinion among all peoples on matters of health ; (s) to establish and revise as necessary international nomenclatures of diseases , of causes of death and of public health practices ; (t) to standardize diagnostic procedures as necessary ; (u) to develop , establish and promote international standards with respect to food , biological , pharmaceutical and similar products ; (v) generally to take all necessary action to attain the objective of the Organization .
CHAPTER III MEMBERSHIP AND ASSOCIATE MEMBERSHIP
Article 3
Membership in the Organization shall be open to all States . Article 4
Members of the United Nations may become Members of the Organization by signing or otherwise accepting this Constitution in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XIX and in accordance with their constitutional processes.

Article 5

The States whose governments have been invited to send observers to the International Health Conference held in New York, 1946 , may

become Members by signing or otherwise accepting this Constitution in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XIX and in accordance

with their constitutional processes provided that such signature or acceptance shall be completed before the first session of the Health

Assembly.

Article 6

Subject to the conditions of any agreement between the United Nations and the Organization , approved pursuant to Chapter XVI , States which do not become Members in accordance with Articles 4 and 5 may apply to become Members and shall be admitted as Members when their application has been approved by a simple majority vote of the Health Assembly.

Article 7
If a Member fails to meet its financial obligations to the Organization or in other exceptional circumstances the Health Assembly may, on such conditions as it thinks proper, suspend the voting privileges and services to which a Member is entitled . The Health Assembly shall have the authority to restore such voting privileges and services.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22 , 1946
Article 8
Territories or groups of territories which are not responsible for the conduct of their international relations may be admitted as Associate Members by the Health Assembly upon application made on behalf of such territory or group of territories by the Member or other authority having responsibility for their international relations. Representatives of Associate Members to the Health Assembly should be qualified by their technical competence in the field of health and should be chosen from the native population . The nature and extent of the rights and obligations of Associate Members shall be determined by the Health Assembly.

2683

CHAPTER IV ORGANS Article 9
The work of the Organization shall be carried out by: (a) The World Health Assembly (herein called the Health
Assembly) ; (b) The Executive Board (hereinafter called the Board ) ; (c) The Secretariat.

CHAPTER V THE WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY
Article 10

The Health Assembly shall be composed of delegates representing Members.
Article 11
Each Member shall be represented by not more than three delegates, one of whom shall be designated by the Member as chief delegate . These delegates should be chosen from among persons most qualified by their technical competence in the field of health, preferably representing the national health administration of the Member.

Delegates.

Article 12

Alternates and advisers may accompany delegates.

Article 13
The Health Assembly shall meet in regular annual session and in such special sessions as may be necessary. Special sessions shall be convened at the request of the Board or of a majority of the Members .
Article 14
The Health Assembly, at each annual session , shall select the country or region in which the next annual session shall be held , the Board subsequently fixing the place . The Board shall determine the place where a special session shall be held .
68706-52- PT. III-- 6

Sessions. Place of meeting.

2684

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 15

Date of meeting.

The Board, after consultation with the Secretary-General of the United Nations , shall determine the date of each annual and special session.
Article 16

Election of officers.

The Health Assembly shall elect its President and other officers

at the beginning of each annual session . They shall hold office until their successors are elected .

Article 17

Functions.

The Health Assembly shall adopt its own rules of procedure . Article 18
The functions of the Health Assembly shall be:

(a) to determine the policies of the Organization ; (b) to name the Members entitled to designate a person to serve
on the Board ; (c) to appoint the Director-General ; (d) to review and approve reports and activities of the Board and
of the Director-General and to instruct the Board in regard to matters upon which action, study , investigation or report may be considered desirable ;

(e) to establish such committees as may be considered necessary for the work of the Organization ;
(f) to supervise the financial policies of the Organization and to review and approve the budget ;
(g) to instruct the Board and the Director-General to bring to the attention of Members and of international organizations , governmental or non-governmental, any matter with regard to health which the Health Assembly may consider appropriate ;
(h) to invite any organization , international or national , governmental or non-governmental, which has responsibilities related to those of the Organization, to appoint representatives to participate, without right of vote, in its meetings or in those of the committees and conferences convened under its authority, on conditions prescribed by the Health Assembly ; but in the case of national organizations , invitations shall be issued only with the consent of the government concerned ;
(i) to consider recommendations bearing on health made by the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council, the Security Council or Trusteeship Council of the United Nations, and to report to them on the steps taken by the Organization to give effect to such recommendations ;
(j) to report to the Economic and Social Council in accordance with any agreement between the Organization and the United Nations ;

k) to promote and conduct research in the field of health by the personnel of the Organization , by the establishment of its own

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2685

institutions or by co-operation with official or non-official institutions of any Member with the consent of its government. (1) to establish such other institutions as it may consider desirable. (m) to take any other appropriate action to further the objective of the Organization .
Article 19 The Health Assembly shall have authority to adopt conventions or tioAndsooprtiaognreoefmceonntvse.nagreements with respect to any matter within the competence of the Organization. A two-thirds vote of the Health Assembly shall be required for the adoption of such conventions or agreements which shall come into force for each Member when accepted by it in accordance with its constitutional processes .

Article 20

Each Member undertakes that it will , within eighteen months after the adoption by the Health Assembly of a convention or agreement , take action relative to the acceptance of such convention or agree-

veAnctcioenpstanocre aofgrceoen-ments.

ment. Each Member shall notify the Director-General of the action

taken and if it does not accept such convention or agreement within

the time limit, it will furnish a statement of the reasons for non-accept-

ance. In case of acceptance, each Member agrees to make an annual report to the Director-General in accordance with Chapter XIV.

Post, p. 2691.

Article 21 The Health Assembly shall have authority to adopt regulations con- tioAndso.ption of regula
cerning:

(a) sanitary and quarantine requirements and other procedures designed to prevent the international spread of disease ;
(b) nomenclatures with respect to diseases, causes of death and public health practices ;
(c) standards with respect to diagnostic procedures for international use;
(d) standards with respect to the safety, purity and potency of biological, pharmaceutical and similar products moving in international commerce ;

(e) advertising and labelling of biological, pharmaceutical and similar products moving in international commerce .

Article 22

Regulations adopted pursuant to Article 21 shall come into force for all Members after due notice has been given of their adoption by the
Health Assembly except for such Members as may notify the DirectorGeneral of rejection or reservations within the period stated in the notice .
Article 23
The Health Assembly shall have authority to make recommendations to Members with respect to any matter within the competence ofthe Organization.

Recommendations.

2686

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

CHAPTER VI

THE EXECUTIVE BOARD

Article 24

Composition.

The Board shall consist of eighteen persons designated by as many Members. The Health Assembly, taking into account an equitable geographical distribution , shall elect the Members entitled to designate a person to serve on the Board . Each of these Members should
appoint to the Board a person technically qualified in the field of health, who may be accompanied by alternates and advisers .

Article 25

Terms of Members.

These Members shall be elected for three years and may be reelected ; provided that of the Members elected at the first session of the Health Assembly, the terms of six Members shall be for one year and the terms of six Members shall be for two years, as determined by lot.
Article 26

Meetings . Chairman.

The Board shall meet at least twice a year and shall determine the place of each meeting.
Article 27
The Board shall elect its Chairman from among its members and shall adopt its own rules of procedure.

Functions.

Article 28 The functions of the Board shall be:

(a) to give effect to the decisions and policies of the Health Assembly ;
(b) to act as the executive organ of the Health Assembly ; (c) to perform any other functions entrusted to it by the Health
Assembly ;
(d) to advise the Health Assembly on questions referred to it by that body and on matters assigned to the Organization by conventions , agreements and regulations ;
(e) to submit advice or proposals to the Health Assembly on its own initiative ;
(f) to prepare the agenda of meetings of the Health Assembly ; (g) to submit to the Health Assembly for consideration and ap-
proval a general programme of work covering a specific period ; (h) to study all questions within its competence ; (i) to take emergency measures within the functions and financial
resources of the Organization to deal with events requiring immediate action . In particular it may authorize the DirectorGeneral to take the necessary steps to combat epidemics , to participate in the organization of health relief to victims of a calamity and to undertake studies and research the urgency of which has been drawn to the attention of the Board by any Member or by the Director-General .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION -JULY 22, 1946 2687

Article 29
The Board shall exercise on behalf of the whole Health Assembly the powers delegated to it by that body.

CHAPTER VII

THE SECRETARIAT

Article 30

The Secretariat shall comprise the Director-General and such technical and administrative staff as the Organization may require.

Composition.

Article 31

The Director-General shall be appointed by the Health Assembly

on the nomination of the Board on such terms as the Health Assembly

may determine. The Director- General, subject to the authority of the Board, shall be the chief technical and administrative officer of

the Organization .

Article 32

Director-General.

The Director-General shall be ex officio Secretary of the Health Assembly, of the Board, of all commissions and committees of the Organization and of conferences convened by it . He may delegate these functions .
Article 33

The Director-General or his representative may establish a procedure by agreement with Members, permitting him, for the purpose of discharging his duties, to have direct access to their various departments, especially to their health administrations and to national health organizations, governmental or non-governmental . He may also establish direct relations with international organizations whose activities come within the competence of the Organization . He shall keep Regional Offices informed on all matters involving their respective areas.
Article 34

The Director-General shall prepare and submit annually to the Board the financial statements and budget estimates of the Organization .

Article 35
The Director-General shall appoint the staff of the Secretariat in Staff. accordance with staff regulations established by the Health Assembly. The paramount consideration in the employment of the staff shall be to assure that the efficiency, integrity and internationally representative character of the Secretariat shall be maintained at the highest level. Due regard shall be paid also to the importance of recruiting the staff on as wide a geographical basis as possible .

Article 36

The conditions of service of the staff of the Organization shall conform as far as possible with those of other United Nations organizations.

2688

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Article 37
In the performance of their duties the Director- General and the staff shall not seek or receive instructions from any government or from any authority external to the Organization . They shall refrain from any action which might reflect on their position as international officers . Each Member of the Organization on its part undertakes to respect the exclusively international character of the DirectorGeneral and the staff and not to seek to influence them .
CHAPTER VIII
COMMITTEES Article 38
The Board shall establish such committees as the Health Assembly may direct and, on its own initiative or on the proposal of the DirectorGeneral, may establish any other committees considered desirable to serve any purpose within the competence of the Organization .
Article 39
The Board, from time to time and in any event annually, shall review the necessity for continuing each committee .
Article 40
The Board may provide for the creation of or the participation by the Organization in joint or mixed committees with other organizations and for the representation of the Organization in committees established by such other organizations .
CHAPTER IX
CONFERENCES Article 41
The Health Assembly or the Board may convene local , general, technical or other special conferences to consider any matter within the competence of the Organization and may provide for the representation at such conferences of international organizations and, with the consent of the government concerned , of national organizations , governmental or non-governmental. The manner of such representation shall be determined by the Health Assembly or the Board .
Article 42
The Board may provide for representation of the Organization at conferences in which the Board considers that the Organization has an interest.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2689

CHAPTER X

HEADQUARTERS Article 43

The location of the headquarters of the Organization shall be determined by the Health Assembly after consultation with the United Nations.
CHAPTER XI

REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS Article 44

(a) The Health Assembly shall from time to time define the geographical areas in which it is desirable to establish a regional organization.
(b) The Health Assembly may, with the consent of a majority of the Members situated within each area so defined , establish a regional organization to meet the special needs of such area. There shall not be more than one regional organization in each area.
Article 45

Each regional organization shall be an integral part of the Organization in accordance with this Constitution.

Article 46

Each regional organization shall consist of a Regional Committee and a Regional Office.
Article 47

Regional Committees shall be composed of representatives of the

Regional Committees.

Member States and Associate Members in the region concerned . Composition.

Territories or groups of territories within the region , which are not responsible for the conduct of their international relations and which

are not Associate Members , shall have the right to be represented and

to participate in Regional Committees . The nature and extent of

the rights and obligations of these territories or groups of territories

in Regional Committees shall be determined by the Health Assembly in consultation with the Member or other authority having respon-

sibility for the international relations of these territories and with the Member States in the region.

Article 48
Regional Committees shall meet as often as necessary and shall determine the place of each meeting.

Meetings.

Article 49

Regional Committees shall adopt their own rules of procedure . Article 50
The functions of the Regional Committee shall be: (a) to formulate policies governing matters of an exclusively re-
gional character ;

Functions.

2690

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

(b) to supervise the activities of the Regional Office ; (c) to suggest to the Regional Office the calling of technical con-
ferences and such additional work or investigation in health matters as in the opinion of the Regional Committee would promote the objective of the Organization within the region ; (d) to co-operate with the respective regional committees of the United Nations and with those of other specialized agencies and with other regional international organizations having interests in common with the Organization ;
(e) to tender advice , through the Director-General, to the Organization on international health matters which have wider than regional significance ;
(f) to recommend additional regional appropriations by the governments of the respective regions if the proportion of the central budget of the Organization allotted to that region is insufficient for the carrying out of the regional functions ;
(g) such other functions as may be delegated to the Regional Committee by the Health Assembly , the Board or the DirectorGeneral. Article 51

Subject to the general authority of the Director-General of the Organization , the Regional Office shall be the administrative organ of the Regional Committee . It shall, in addition , carry out within the region the decisions of the Health Assembly and of the Board.

Article 52

The head of the Regional Office shall be the Regional Director appointed by the Board in agreement with the Regional Committee .

Article 53

The staff of the Regional Office shall be appointed in a manner to be determined by agreement between the Director-General and the Regional Director .
Article 54

Integration of certain existing organiza-

The Pan American sanitary organization represented by the Pan

tions.

American Sanitary Bureau and the Pan American Sanitary Confer-

ences, and all other inter-governmental regional health organizations

in existence prior to the date of signature of this Constitution , shall

in due course be integrated with the Organization . This integration

shall be effected as soon as practicable through common action based

on mutual consent of the competent authorities expressed through the organizations concerned .

Estimates.

CHAPTER XII BUDGET AND EXPENSES
Article 55
The Director-General shall prepare and submit to the Board the annual budget estimates of the Organization . The Board shall con-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2691

sider and submit to the Health Assembly such budget estimates, together with any recommendations the Board may deem advisable.
Article 56

Subject to any agreement between the Organization and the United Nations, the Health Assembly shall review and approve the budget estimates and shall apportion the expenses among the Members in accordance with a scale to be fixed by the Health Assembly.
Article 57
The Health Assembly or the Board acting on behalf of the Health Assembly may accept and administer gifts and bequests made to the Organization provided that the conditions attached to such gifts or bequests are acceptable to the Health Assembly or the Board and are consistent with the objective and policies of the Organization.
Article 58
A special fund to be used at the discretion of the Board shall be established to meet emergencies and unforeseen contingencies.

Gifts and bequests. Special fund.

CHAPTER XIII

VOTING Article 59

Each Member shall have one vote in the Health Assembly.
Article 60
(a ) Decisions of the Health Assembly on important questions shall be made by a two-thirds majority of the Members present and voting. These questions shall include : the adoption of conventions or agreements ; the approval of agreements bringing the Organization into relation with the United Nations and inter-governmental organizations and agencies in accordance with Articles 69 , 70 and 72; amendments to this Constitution .
(b) Decisions on other questions , including the determination of additional categories of questions to be decided by a two-thirds majority, shall be made by a majority of the Members present and voting.
(c) Voting on analogous matters in the Board and in committees of the Organization shall be made in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Article.
CHAPTER XIV

Post, pp. 2692, 2693.

REPORTS SUBMITTED BY STATES
Article 61
Each Member shall report annually to the Organization on the action taken and progress achieved in improving the health of its people.

2692

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Article 62
Each Member shall report annually on the action taken with respect to recommendations made to it by the Organization and with respect to conventions , agreements and regulations .
Article 63 Each Member shall communicate promptly to the Organization important laws , regulations, official reports and statistics pertaining to health which have been published in the State concerned .
Article 64 Each Member shall provide statistical and epidemiological reports in a manner to be determined by the Health Assembly.
Article 65
Each Member shall transmit upon the request of the Board such additional information pertaining to health as may be practicable.
CHAPTER XV
LEGAL CAPACITY, PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES Article 66
The Organization shall enjoy in the territory of each Member such legal capacity as may be necessary for the fulfilment of its objective and for the exercise of its functions .
Article 67
(a) The Organization shall enjoy in the territory of each Member such privileges and immunities as may be necessary for the fulfilment of its objective and for the exercise of its functions. (b) Representatives of Members , persons designated to serve on the Board and technical and administrative personnel of the Organization shall similarly enjoy such privileges and immunities as are necessary for the independent exercise of their functions in connection with the Organization .
Article 68
Such legal capacity, privileges and immunities shall be defined in a separate agreement to be prepared by the Organization in consultation with the Secretary-General of the United Nations and concluded between the Members .

59 Stat. 1046.

CHAPTER XVI
RELATIONS WITH OTHER ORGANIZATIONS Article 69
The Organization shall be brought into relation with the United Nations as one of the specialized agencies referred to in Article 57 of the Charter of the United Nations . The agreement or agreements

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2693

bringing the Organization into relation with the United Nations

shall be subject to approval by a two-thirds vote of the Health

Assembly.

Article 70

The Organization shall establish effective relations and co-operate closely with such other inter-governmental organizations as may be

desirable. Any formal agreement entered into with such organiza-

tions shall be subject to approval by a two-thirds vote of the Health

Assembly.

Article 71

The Organization may, on matters within its competence, make suitable arrangements for consultation and co -operation with nongovernmental international organizations and , with the consent of the government concerned , with national organizations , governmental or non-governmental.
Article 72

Subject to the approval by a two-thirds vote of the Health Assembly, the Organization may take over from any other international organization or agency whose purpose and activities lie within the field of competence of the Organization such functions, resources and obligations as may be conferred upon the Organization by international agreement or by mutually acceptable arrangements entered into between the competent authorities of the respective organizations.

CHAPTER XVII

AMENDMENTS

Article 73
Texts of proposed amendments to this Constitution shall be communicated by the Director-General to Members at least six months in advance of their consideration by the Health Assembly. Amendments shall come into force for all Members when adopted by a twothirds vote of the Health Assembly and accepted by two-thirds of the Members in accordance with their respective constitutional processes.
CHAPTER XVIII

INTERPRETATION

Article 74
The Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts of this Constitution shall be regarded as equally authentic.

Authentic texts.

Article 75

Questions or disAny question or dispute concerning the interpretation or applica- putes. tion of this Constitution which is not settled by negotiation or by the

Health Assembly shall be referred to the International Court of Justice in conformity with the Statute of the Court, unless the parties concerned agree on another mode of settlement.

59 Stat. 1055.

2694

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Article 76
Upon authorization by the General Assembly of the United Nations or upon authorization in accordance with any agreement between the Organization and the United Nations, the Organization may request the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion on any legal question arising within the competence of the Organization .
Article 77

The Director-General may appear before the Court on behalf of the Organization in connection with any proceedings arising out of any such request for an advisory opinion . He shall make arrangements for the presentation of the case before the Court including arrangements for the argument of different views on the question.

Ante, p. 2682.
Registration. 59 Stat. 1052.

CHAPTER XIX

ENTRY INTO FORCE Article 78

Subject to the provisions of Chapter III , this Constitution shall remain open to all States for signature or acceptance.
Article 79

(a) States may become parties to this Constitution by (i) signature without reservation as to approval ; (ii) signature subject to approval followed by acceptance ; or (iii) acceptance .
(b) Acceptance shall be effected by the deposit of a formal instrument with the Secretary-General of the United Nations .
Article 80

This Constitution shall come into force when twenty-six Members of the United Nations have become parties to it in accordance with the provisions of Article 79. [']

Article 81

In accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Na-

tions , the Secretary-General of the United Nations will register this Constitution when it has been signed without reservation as to ap-

proval on behalf of one State or upon deposit of the first instrument of

acceptance .

Article 82

The Secretary-General of the United Nations will inform States parties to this Constitution of the date when it has come into force.

1 Entered into force Apr. 7, 1948 ; entered into force with respect to the United States June 21 , 1948.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
He will also inform them of the dates when other States have become parties to this Constitution.
IN FAITH WHEREOF the undersigned representatives having been duly authorized for that purpose, sign this Constitution .
DONE in the City of New York this twenty-second day of July 1946 , in a single copy in the Chinese, English, French , Russian and Spanish languages , each text being equally authentic. The original texts shall be deposited in the archives of the United Nations . The SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations will send certified copies to each of the Governments represented at the Conference.

2695

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2697
CONSTITUTION DE
L'ORGANISATION MONDIALE DE LA SANTE

2698

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Les ETATS parties à cette Constitution déclarent, en accord avec la Charte des Nations Unies, que les principes suivants sont à la base du bonheur des peuples , de leurs relations harmonieuses et de leur sécurité :
La santé est un état de complet bien-être physique, mental et social, et ne consiste pas seulement en une absence de maladie ou d'infirmité .
La possession du meilleur état de santé qu'il est capable d'atteindre constitue l'un des droits fondamentaux de tout être humain , quelles que soient sa race, sa religion , ses opinions politiques , sa condition économique ou sociale.
La santé de tous les peuples est une condition fondamentale de la paix du monde et de la sécurité ; elle dépend de la coopération la plus étroite des individus et des Etats .
Les résultats atteints par chaque Etat dans l'amélioration et la protection de la santé sont précieux pour tous. L'inégalité des divers pays en ce qui concerne l'amélioration de la santé et la lutte contre les maladies, en particulier les maladies transmissibles , est un péril pour tous. Le développement sain de l'enfant est d'une importance fondamentale ; l'aptitude à vivre en harmonie avec un milieu en pleine transformation est essentielle à ce développement.
L'admission de tous les peuples au bénéfice des connaissances acquises par les sciences médicales , psychologiques et apparentées est essentielle pour atteindre le plus haut degré de santé. Une opinion publique éclairée et une coopération active de la part du public sont d'une importance capitale pour l'amélioration de la santé des populations.
Les Gouvernements ont la responsabilité de la santé de leurs peuples ; ils ne peuvent y faire face qu'en prenant les mesures sanitaires et sociales appropriées .
ACCEPTANT CES PRINCIPES , dans le but de coopérer entre elles et avec tous autres pour améliorer et protéger la santé de tous les peuples , les Parties contractantes acquiescent à ladite Constitution et établissent par les présentes l'Organisation mondiale de la santé comme une institution spécialisée aux termes de l'article 57 de la Charte des Nations Unies.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2699
CHAPITRE I
BUT
Article 1
Le but de l'Organisation mondiale de la santé, (ci-après dénommée l'Organisation) , est d'amener tous les peuples au niveau de santé le plus élevé possible .
CHAPITRE II
FONCTIONS
Article 2
L'Organisation, pour atteindre son but, exerce les fonctions suivantes :
(a) agir en tant qu'autorité directrice et coordinatrice, dans le domaine de la santé, des travaux ayant un caractère international ;
(b) établir et maintenir une collaboration effective avec les Nations Unies, les institutions spécialisées , les administrations gouvernementales de la santé, les groupes professionnels, ainsi que telles autres organisations qui paraîtraient indiquées ;
(c) aider les Gouvernements, sur leur demande, à renforcer leurs services de santé ;
(d) fournir l'assistance technique appropriée et, dans les cas d'urgence, l'aide nécessaire , à la requête des Gouvernements ou sur leur acceptation ;
(e) fournir ou aider à fournir, à la requête des Nations Unies , des services sanitaires et des secours à des groupements spéciaux tels que les populations des territoires sous tutelle ;
(f) établir et entretenir tels services administratifs et techniques jugés nécessaires , y compris des services d'épidémiologie et de statistique ;
(g) stimuler et faire progresser l'action tendant à la suppression des maladies épidémiques, endémiques et autres ;
(h) stimuler, en coopérant au besoin avec d'autres institutions spécialisées , l'adoption de mesures propres à prévenir les dommages dus aux accidents ;
(i) favoriser, en coopérant au besoin avec d'autres institutions spécialisées, l'amélioration de la nutrition , du logement, de l'assainissement, des loisirs, des conditions économiques et de travail, ainsi que de tous autres facteurs de l'hygiène du milieu ;
(j) favoriser la coopération entre les groupes scientifiques et professionnels qui contribuent au progrès de la santé;
(k) proposer des conventions, accords et règlements , faire des recommandations concernant les questions internationales de santé et exécuter telles tâches pouvant être assignées de ce fait à l'Organisation et répondant à son but ;

2700

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(1) faire progresser l'action en faveur de la santé et du bien-être de la mère et de l'enfant et favoriser leur aptitude à vivre en harmonie avec un milieu en pleine transformation ;
(m) favoriser toutes activités dans le domaine de l'hygiène mentale, notamment celles se rapportant à l'établissement de relations harmonieuses entre les hommes :
(n) stimuler et guider la recherche dans le domaine de la santé ; (0) favoriser l'amélioration des normes de l'enseignement et celles
de la formation du personnel sanitaire, médical et apparenté ; (p) étudier et faire connaître, en coopération au besoin avec
d'autres institutions spécialisées , les techniques administratives et sociales concernant l'hygiène publique et les soins médicaux préventifs et curatifs, y compris les services hospitaliers et la sécurité sociale;
(q) fournir toutes informations, donner tous conseils et toute assistance dans le domaine de la santé ;
(r) aider à former, parmi les peuples , une opinion publique éclairée en ce qui concerne la santé ;
(s) établir et reviser, selon les besoins, la nomenclature internationale des maladies, des causes de décès et des méthodes d'hygiène publique ;
(t) standardiser, dans la mesure où cela est nécessaire, les méthodes de diagnostic ;
(u) développer, établir et encourager l'adoption de normes internationales en ce qui concerne les aliments , les produits biologiques , pharmaceutiques et similaires ;
(v) d'une manière générale, prendre toute mesure nécessaire pour atteindre le but assigné à l'Organisation.
CHAPITRE III
MEMBRES ET MEMBRES ASSOCIES
Article 3
La qualité de membre de l'Organisation est accessible à tous les Etats.
Article 4
Les Etats Membres des Nations Unies peuvent devenir membres de l'Organisation en signant , ou en acceptant de toute autre manière , cette Constitution, conformément aux dispositions du Chapitre XIX et conformément à leurs règles constitutionnelles .
Article 5
Les Etats dont les Gouvernements ont été invités à envoyer des observateurs à la Conférence internationale de la santé , tenue à NewYork en 1946 , peuvent devenir membres en signant , ou en acceptant de toute autre manière, cette Constitution , conformément aux dispositions du Chapitre XIX et conformément à leurs règles constitutionnelles, pourvu que leur signature ou acceptation devienne définitive avant la première session de l'Assemblée de la santé.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2701
Article 6
Sous réserve des conditions de tout accord à intervenir entre les Nations Unies et l'Organisation et qui sera approuvé conformément au Chapitre XVI , les Etats qui ne deviennent pas membres , conformément aux dispositions des articles 4 et 5 , peuvent demander à devenir membres et seront admis, en cette qualité, lorsque leur demande aura été approuvée à la majorité simple par l'Assemblée de la santé.
Article 7
Lorsqu : un Etat Membre ne remplit pas ses obligations financières vis-à-vis de l'Organisation , ou dans d'autres circonstances exceptionnelles, l'Assemblée de la santé peut, aux conditions jugées par elle opportunes, suspendre les privilèges attachés au droit de vote et les services dont bénéficie l'Etat Membre. L'Assemblée de la santé aura pouvoir de rétablir ces privilèges afférents au droit de vote et ces services.
Article 8
Les territoires ou groupes de territoires n'ayant pas la responsabilité de la conduite de leurs relations internationales peuvent être admis en qualité de membres associés par l'Assemblée de la santé, sur la demande faite pour le compte d'un tel territoire ou groupe de territoires par l'Etat Membre ou par une autre autorité ayant la responsabilité de la conduite de leurs relations internationales. Les représentants des membres associés à l'Assemblée de la santé devraient être qualifiés par leur compétence technique dans le domaine de santé et devraient être choisis dans la population indigène .
La nature et l'étendue des droits et obligations des membres associés seront déterminés par l'Assemblée de la santé.
CHAPITRE IV
ORGANES
Article 9
Le fonctionnement de l'Organisation est assuré par :
(a) l'Assemblée mondiale de la santé (ci-après dénommée Assemblée de la santé) ;
(b) le Conseil exécutif (ci-après dénommé le Conseil) ; (c) le Secrétariat .
CHAPITRE V
ASSEMBLEE MONDIALE DE LA SANTE
Article 10
L'Assemblée de la santé est composée de délégués représentant les Etats Membres .
Article 11
Chaque Etat Membre est représenté par trois délégués au plus, l'un d'eux étant désigné par l'Etat Membre comme chef de délégation . Ces délégués devraient être choisis parmi les personnalités les plus

2702

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

qualifiées par leur compétence technique dans le domaine de la santé et qui, de préférence, représenteraient l'administration nationale de la santé de l'Etat Membre.

Article 12

Des suppléants et des conseillers sont admis à accompagner les

délégués .

Article 13

L'Assemblée de la santé se réunit en session ordinaire annuelle et en autant de sessions extraordinaires que les circonstances peuvent l'exiger. Les sessions extraordinaires seront convoquées à la demande du Conseil ou d'une majorité des Etats Membres .
Article 14

L'Assemblée de la santé, lors de chaque session annuelle , choisit le pays ou la région dans lequel se tiendra sa prochaine session annuelle, le Conseil en fixant ultérieurement le lieu . Le Conseil détermine le lieu où se tiendra chaque session extraordinaire .
Article 15

Le Conseil, après consultation du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies , arrête la date de chaque session annuelle et de chaque session extraordinaire.
Article 16
L'Assemblée de la santé élit son Président et les autres membres du bureau au début de chaque session annuelle. Ils demeurent en fonctions jusqu'à l'élection de leurs successeurs .
Article 17

L'Assemblée de la santé adopte son propre règlement . Article 18
Les fonctions de l'Assemblée de la santé consistent à:

(a) arrêter la politique de l'Organisation ; (b) élire les Etats appelés à désigner une personnalité au Conseil ; (c) nommer le Directeur général ; (d) étudier et approuver les rapports et les activités du Conseil et
du Directeur général , donner au Conseil des instructions en des matières où certaines mesures , certaines études et recherches, ainsi que la présentation de rapports pourraient être considérées comme désirables ; (e) créer toute commission nécessaire aux activités de l'Organisation ;
(f) contrôler la politique financière de l'Organisation , examiner et approuver son budget;
(g) donner des instructions au Conseil et au Directeur général pour appeler l'attention des Etats Membres et des organisations

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2703
internationales, gouvernementales ou non-gouvernementales , sur toute question concernant la santé que l'Assemblée de la santé pourra juger digne d'être signalée ; (h) inviter toute organisation internationale ou nationale, gouvernementale ou non gouvernementale, assumant des responsabilités apparentées à celles de l'Organisation, à nommer des représentants pour participer, sans droit de vote, à ses sessions ou à celles des commissions et conférences réunies sous son autorité, aux conditions prescrites par l'Assemblée de la santé ; cependant, s'il s'agit d'organisations nationales , les invitations ne pourront être envoyées qu'avec le consentement du Gouvernement intéressé ; (i) étudier des recommandations ayant trait à la santé, émanant de l'Assemblée générale, du Conseil économique et social , des Conseils de sécurité ou de tutelle des Nations Unies et faire rapport à ceux-ci sur les mesures prises par l'Organisation en exécution de telles recommandations ;
(j) faire rapport au Conseil économique et social , conformément aux dispositions de tout accord intervenu entre l'Organisation et les Nations Unies ;
(k) encourager ou diriger tous travaux de recherches dans le domaine de la santé en utilisant le personnel de l'Organisation , ou en créant des institutions qui lui seront propres ou en coopérant avec des institutions officielles ou non officielles de chaque Etat Membre , avec le consentement de son Gouvernement ;
(1) créer telles autres institutions jugées souhaitables ;
(m) prendre toute autre mesure propre à réaliser le but de l'Organisation. Article 19
L'Assemblée de la santé a autorité pour adopter des conventions ou accords se rapportant à toute question rentrant dans la compétence de l'Organisation . La majorité des deux tiers de l'Assemblée de la santé sera nécessaire pour l'adoption de ces conventions ou accords lesquels entreront en vigueur au regard de chaque Etat Membre lorsque ce dernier les aura acceptés conformément à ses règles constitutionnelles.
Article 20
Chaque Etat Membre s'engage à prendre, dans un délai de dix-huit mois après l'adoption d'une convention ou d'un accord par l'Assemblée de la santé, les mesures en rapport avec l'acceptation de telle convention ou de tel accord . Chaque Etat Membre notifiera au Directeur général les mesures prises et, s'il n'accepte pas cette convention ou cet accord dans le délai prescrit, il adressera une déclaration motivant sa non acceptation . En cas d'acceptation , chaque Etat Membre convient d'adresser un rapport annuel au Directeur général conformément au Chapitre XIV.

2704

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Article 21
L'Assemblée de la santé aura autorité pour adopter les règlements concernant :
(a) telle mesure sanitaire et de quarantaine ou toute autre procédure destinée à empêcher la propagation des maladies d'un pays à l'autre ;
(b) la nomenclature concernant les maladies , les causes de décès et les méthodes d'hygiène publique ;
(c) des standards sur les méthodes de diagnostic applicables dans le cadre international ;
(d) des normes relatives à l'innocuité, la pureté et l'activité des produits biologiques , pharmaceutiques et similaires qui se trouvent dans le commerce international ;
(e) des conditions relatives à la publicité et à la désignation des produits biologiques , pharmaceutiques et similaires qui se trouvent dans le commerce international.
Article 22
Les règlements adoptés en exécution de l'article 21 entreront en vigueur pour tous les Etats Membres , leur adoption par l'Assemblée de la santé ayant été dûment notifiée , exception faite pour tels Membres qui pourraient faire connaître au Directeur général , dans les délais prescrits par la notification, qu'ils les refusent ou font des réserves à leur sujet.
Article 23
L'Assemblée de la santé a autorité pour faire des recommandations aux Etats Membres en ce qui concerne toute question entrant dans la compétence de l'Organisation .
CHAPITRE VI
CONSEIL EXECUTIF
Article 24
Le Conseil est composé de dix-huit personnes , désignées par autant d'Etats Membres . L'Assemblée de la santé choisit, compte tenu d'une répartition géographique équitable, les Etats appelés à désigner un délégué au Conseil . Chacun de ces Etats enverra au Conseil une personnalité, techniquement qualifiée dans le domaine de la santé, qui pourra être accompagnée de suppléants et de conseillers .
Article 25
Ces membres sont élus pour trois ans et sont rééligibles ; cependant en ce qui concerne les membres élus lors de la première session de l'Assemblée de la santé, la durée du mandat de six de ces membres sera d'une année et la durée du mandat de six autres membres sera de deux ans , la sélection étant déterminée par tirage au sort.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
Article 26
Le Conseil se réunit au moins deux fois par an et détermine le lieu de chaque réunion.
Article 27
Le Conseil élit son Président parmi ses membres et adopte son propre règlement.
Article 28 Les fonctions du Conseil sont les suivantes:
(a) appliquer les décisions et les directives de l'Assemblée de la santé ;
(b) agir comme organe exécutif de l'Assemblée de la santé ; (c) exercer toute autre fonction à lui confiée par l'Assemblée de la
santé ; (d) donner des consultations à l'Assemblée de la santé sur les
questions qui lui seraient soumises par cet organisme et sur celles qui seraient déférées à l'Organisation par des conventions , des accords et des règlements ; (e) de sa propre initiative, soumettre à l'Assemblée de la santé des consultations ou des propositions ; (f) préparer les ordres du jour des sessions de l'Assemblée de la santé ; (g) soumettre à l'Assemblée de la santé, pour examen et approbation, un programme général de travail s'étendant sur une période déterminée ; (h) étudier toutes questions relevant de sa compétence ; (i) dans le cadre des fonctions et des ressources financières de l'Organisation, prendre toute mesure d'urgence dans le cas d'événements exigeant une action immédiate . Il peut en particulier autoriser le Directeur général à prendre les moyens nécessaires pour combattre les épidémies , participer à la mise en oeuvre des secours sanitaires à porter aux victimes d'une calamité et entreprendre telles études ou recherches sur l'urgence desquelles son attention aura été attirée par un Etat quelconque ou par le Directeur général .
Article 29
Le Conseil exerce, au nom de l'Assemblée de la santé tout entière, les pouvoirs qui lui sont délégués par cet organisme.
CHAPITRE VII
SECRETARIAT
Article 30
Le Secrétariat comprend le Directeur général et tel personnel technique et administratif nécessaire à l'Organisation .

2705

2706

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 31

Le Directeur général est nommé par l'Assemblée de la santé, sur proposition du Conseil et suivant les conditions que l'Assemblée de la santé pourra fixer. Le Directeur général, placé sous l'autorité du Conseil, est le plus haut fonctionnaire technique et administratif de l'Organisation .
Article 32

Le Directeur général est de droit Secrétaire de l'Assemblée de la santé, du Conseil , de toute commission et de tout comité de l'Organisation, ainsi que des conférences qu'elle convoque. Il peut déléguer ces fonctions .
Article 33
Le Directeur général, ou son représentant , peut mettre en oeuvre une procédure en vertu d'un accord avec les Etats Membres , lui permettant , pour l'exercice de ses fonctions, d'entrer directement en rapport avec leurs divers départements ministériels , spécialement avec leurs administrations de la santé et avec les organisations sanitaires nationales, gouvernementales ou non. Il peut de même entrer en relations directes avec les organisations internationales dont les activités sont du ressort de l'Organisation . Il doit tenir les bureaux régionaux au courant de toutes questions intéressant leurs zones respectives d'activité.
Article 34

Le Directeur général doit préparer et soumettre chaque année au

Conseil les rapports financiers et les prévisions budgétaires de

l'Organisation .

Article 35

Le Directeur général nomme le personnel du Secrétariat conformément au Règlement du personnel établi par l'Assemblée de la santé.

La considération primordiale qui devra dominer le recrutement du personnel sera de pourvoir à ce que l'efficacité , l'intégrité et la représentation de caractère international du Secrétariat soient assurées

au plus haut degré . Il sera tenu compte également de l'importance

qu'il y a à recruter le personnel sur une base géographique la plus

large possible.

Article 36

Les conditions de service du personnel de l'Organisation seront , autant que possible , conformes à celles des autres organisations des Nations Unies .
Article 37

Dans l'exercice de leurs fonctions , le Directeur général et le personnel ne devront solliciter ou recevoir d'instructions d'aucun Gouvernement ou d'aucune autorité étrangère à l'Organisation . Ils s'abstiendront de toute action qui puisse porter atteinte à leur situation de fonctionnaires internationaux. Chaque Etat Membre de l'Organisation s'engage, de son côté, à respecter le caractère exclusivement international du Directeur général et du personnel et à ne pas chercher à les influencer.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2707
CHAPITRE VIII COMMISSIONS
Article 38
Le Conseil crée telles commissions que l'Assemblée de la santé peut prescrire et, sur sa propre initiative ou sur la proposition du Directeur général, peut créer toutes autres commissions jugées souhaitables pour des fins ressortissant à l'Organisation .
Article 39
Le Conseil examine de temps en temps, et en tout cas une fois par an, la nécessité de maintenir chaque commission.
Article 40
Le Conseil peut procéder à la création de commissions conjointes ou mixtes avec d'autres organisations ou y faire participer l'Organisation; il peut assurer la représentation de l'Organisation dans des commissions instituées par d'autres organismes .
CHAPITRE IX CONFERENCES
Article 41 L'Assemblée de la santé ou le Conseil peut convoquer des conférences locales , générales, techniques ou toute autre d'un caractère spécial pour étudier telle question rentrant dans la compétence de l'Organisation et assurer la représentation , à ces conférences , d'organisations internationales et , avec le consentement des Gouvernements intéressés, d'organisations nationales, les unes ou les autres pouvant être de caractère gouvernemental ou non. Les modalités de cette représentation sont fixées par l'Assemblée de la santé ou le Conseil.
Article 42
Le Conseil pourvoit à la représentation de l'Organisation dans les conférences où il estime que celle-ci possède un intérêt .
CHAPITRE X SIEGE
Article 43
Le lieu du siège de l'Organisation sera fixé par l'Assemblée de la santé, après consultation des Nations Unies.
CHAPITRE XI ARRANGEMENTS REGIONAUX
Article 44
(a) L'Assemblée de la santé, de temps en temps, détermine les régions géographiques où il est désirable d'établir une organisation régionale . 68706-52- PT. III- -7

2708

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

(b) L'Assemblée de la santé peut, avec le consentement de la majorité des Etats Membres situés dans chaque région ainsi déterminée, établir une organisation régionale pour répondre aux besoins particuliers de cette région. Il ne pourra y avoir plus d'une organisation régionale dans chaque région.
Article 45

Chacune des organisations régionales sera partie intégrante de l'Organisation , en conformité avec la présente Constitution.
Article 46

Chacune des organisations régionales comporte un comité régional

et un bureau régional.

Article 47

Les comités régionaux sont composés de représentants des Etats Membres et des membres associés de la région en question . Les

territoires ou groupes de territoires d'une région n'ayant pas la res-

ponsabilité de la conduite de leurs relations internationales et qui

ne sont pas des membres associés ont le droit d'être représentés à ces

comités régionaux et d'y participer. La nature et l'étendue des

droits et des obligations de ces territoires ou groupes de territoires

vis-à-vis des comités régionaux seront fixées par l'Assemblée de la

santé, en consultation avec l'Etat Membre ou toute autre autorité ayant la responsabilité de la conduite des relations internationales

de ces territoires et avec les Etats Membres de la région .

2

Article 48

Les comités régionaux se réunissent aussi souvent qu'il est nécessaire et fixent le lieu de chaque réunion.
Article 49

Les comités régionaux adoptent leur propre règlement . Article 50

Les fonctions du comité régional sont les suivantes :
(a) formuler des directives se rapportant à des questions d'un caractère exclusivement régional ;
(b) contrôler les activités du bureau régional ; (c) proposer au bureau régional la réunion de conférences techniques
ainsi que tout travail ou toute recherche additionnels sur des questions de santé qui, de l'avis du comité régional, seraient susceptibles d'atteindre le but poursuivi par l'Organisation dans la région ;
(d) coopérer avec les comités régionaux respectifs des Nations Unies et avec ceux d'autres institutions spécialisées ainsi qu'avec d'autres organisations internationales régionales possédant avec l'Organisation des intérêts communs ;
(e) fournir des avis à l'Organisation , par l'intermédiaire du Directeur général , sur les questions internationales de santé d'une importance débordant le cadre de la région ;

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2709

(f) recommander l'affectation de crédits régionaux supplémentaires

par les Gouvernements des régions respectives si la part du budget central de l'Organisation allouée à cette région est insuffisante pour l'accomplissement des fonctions régionales ;

(g) toutes autres fonctions pouvant être déléguées au comité régional par l'Assemblée de la santé, le Conseil ou le Directeur

général.

Article 51

Sous l'autorité générale du Directeur général de l'Organisation , le bureau régional est l'organe administratif du comité régional. Il doit en outre exécuter, dans les limites de la région, les décisions de l'Assemblée de la santé et du Conseil.

Article 52

Le chef du bureau régional est le Directeur régional nommé par le Conseil en accord avec le comité régional.

Article 53

Le personnel du bureau régional est nommé conformément aux règles qui seront fixées dans un arrangement entre le Directeur général et le Directeur régional.
Article 54

L'Organisation sanitaire panaméricaine, représentée par le Bureau sanitaire panaméricain et les Conférences sanitaires panaméricaines, et toutes autres organisations régionales intergouvernementales de santé existant avant la date de la signature de cette Constitution, seront intégrées en temps voulu dans 'lOrganisation. Cette intégration s'effectuera dès que possible par une action commune, basée sur le consentement mutuel des autorités compétentes exprimé par les organisations intéressées .

CHAPITRE XII BUDGET ET DEPENSES
Article 55
Le Directeur général prépare et soumet au Conseil les prévisions budgétaires annuelles de l'Organisation . Le Conseil examine ces prévisions budgétaires et les soumet à l'Assemblée de la santé, en les accompagnant de telles recommandations qu'il croit opportunes.
Article 56
Sous réserve de tel accord entre l'Organisation et les Nations Unies , l'Assemblée de la santé examine et approuve les prévisions budgétaires et effectue la répartition des dépenses parmi les Etats Membres, conformément au barème qu'elle devra arrêter.
Article 57
L'Assemblée de la santé, ou le Conseil agissant au nom de l'Assemblée de la santé, a pouvoir d'accepter et d'administrer des dons et legs faits à l'Organisation, pourvu que les conditions attachées à ces dons

2710

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
ou legs paraissent acceptables à l'Assemblée de la santé ou au Conseil et cadrent avec les buts et la politique de l'Organisation.
Article 58
Un fond spécial, dont le Conseil disposera à sa discrétion, sera constitué pour parer aux cas d'urgence et à tous événements imprévus.
CHAPITRE XIII
VOTE
Article 59 8
Chaque Etat Membre aura droit à une voix dans l'Assemblée de la santé.
Article 60 *
(a) Les décisions de l'Assemblée de la santé à prendre sur des questions importantes sont acquises à la majorité des deux tiers des Etats Membres présents et votants.
Ces questions comprennent: l'adoption de conventions ou d'accords ; l'approbation d'accords liant l'Organisation aux Nations Unies , aux organisations et aux institutions intergouvernementales , en application des articles 69 , 70 et 72 ; les modifications à la présente Constitution .
(b) Les décisions sur d'autres questions, y compris la fixation de catégories additionnelles de questions devant être décidées par une majorité des deux tiers, sont prises à la simple majorité des Etats Membres présents et votants.
(c) Le vote, au sein du Conseil et des commissions de l'Organisation, sur des questions de nature similaire, s'effectuera conformément aux dispositions des paragraphes (a) et (b) du présent article.
CHAPITRE XIV
RAPPORTS SOUMIS PAR LES ETATS
Article 61
Chaque Etat Membre fait rapport annuellement à l'Organisation sur les mesures prises et les progres réalises pour améliorer la santé de sa population.
Article 62
Chaque Etat Membre fait rapport annuellement sur les mesures prises en exécution des recommandations que l'Organisation lui aura faites et en exécution des conventions , accords et règlements.
Article 63
Chaque Etat Membre communique rapidement à l'Organisation les lois, règlements, rapports officiels et statistiques importants concernant la santé et publiés dans cet Etat.
Article 64
Chaque Etat Membre fournit des rapports statistiques et épidémiologiques selon des modalités à déterminer par l'Assemblée de la santé .

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
Article 65
Sur requête du Conseil, chaque Etat Membre doit transmettre , dans la mesure du possible, toutes informations supplémentaires se rapportant à la santé.
CHAPITRE XV
CAPACITE JURIDIQUE, PRIVILEGES ET IMMUNITES Article 66
L'Organisation jouira sur le territoire de chaque Etat Membre de la capacité juridique nécessaire pour atteindre son but et exercer ses fonctions .
Article 67
(a) L'Organisation jouira sur le territoire de chaque Etat Membre des privilèges et immunités nécessaires pour atteindre son but et exercer ses fonctions.
(b) Les représentants des Etats Membres, les personnes désignées pour faire partie du Conseil et le personnel technique et administratif de l'Organisation jouiront également des privilèges et immunités nécessaires au libre exercice de leurs fonctions se rapportant à l'Organisation.
Article 68
Cette capacité juridique , ces privilèges et immunités seront déterminés dans un arrangement séparé lequel devra être préparé par l'Organisation, en consultation avec le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies, et sera conclu entre les Etats Membres.
CHAPITRE XVI
RELATIONS AVEC D'AUTRES ORGANISATIONS
Article 69
L'Organisation est rattachée aux Nations Unies comme une des institutions spécialisées prévues par l'article 57 de la Charte des Nations Unies. Le ou les accords établissant les rapports de l'Organisation avec les Nations Unies doivent être approuvés à la majorité des deux tiers de l'Assemblée de la santé.
Article 70
L'Organisation doit établir des relations effectives et coopérer étroitement avec telles autres organisations intergouvernementales jugées souhaitables . Tout accord officiel conclu avec ces organisations doit être approuvé à la majorité des deux tiers de l'Assemblée de la santé.
Article 71
L'Organisation peut, en ce qui concerne les questions de son ressort, prendre toutes dispositions convenables pour se concerter et coopérer avec des organisations internationales non-gouvernementales et, avec

2711

2712

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
l'approbation du Gouvernement intéressé, avec des organisations nationales , gouvernementales ou non-gouvernementales .
Article 72
Sous réserve de l'approbation des deux tiers de l'Assemblée de la santé, l'Organisation peut reprendre à d'autres organisations ou institutions internationales, dont les buts et les activités rentrent dans le domaine de la compétence de l'Organisation , telles fonctions , ressources et obligations dont ladite Organisation serait chargée aux termes d'un accord international ou aux termes d'arrangements acceptables pour les aux parties et passés entre les autorités compétentes des organisations respectives.
CHAPITRE XVII
AMENDEMENTS
Article 73
Les textes des amendements proposes à cette Constitution seront communiqués par le Directeur general aux Etats Membres six mois au moins avant qu'ils ne soient examinés par l'Assemblee de la santé.
Les amendements entreront en vigueur à l'égard de tous les Etats Membres lorsqu'ils auront été adoptés par les deux tiers de l'Assemblée de la santé et acceptés par les deux tiers des Etats Membres conformément à leurs règles constitutionnelles respectives.
CHAPITRE XVIII
INTERPRETATION
Article 74
Les textes anglais, chinois, espagnol, français et russe de cette Constitution sont considérés comme également authentiques.
Article 75
Toute question ou différend concernant l'interprétation ou l'application de cette Constitution, qui n'aura pas été réglé par voie de négociation ou par l'Assemblée de la santé, sera déféré par les parties à la Cour Internationale de Justice conformément au statut de ladite Cour, à moins que les parties intéressées ne conviennent d'un autre mode de règlement .
Article 76
Sous le couvert de l'autorisation de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies ou sous le couvert de l'autorisation résultant de tout accord entre l'Organisation et les Nations Unies , l'Organisation pourra demander à la Cour Internationale de Justice un avis consultatif sur toute question juridique éventuelle du ressort de l'Organisation.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
Article 77
Le Directeur général peut representer devant la Cour l'Organisation dans toute procédure se rapportant à toute demande d'avis consultatif. Il devra prendre les dispositions nécessaires pour soumettre l'affaire à la Cour, y compris celles nécessaires à l'exposé des arguments se rapportant aux vues différentes exprimées sur la question.
CHAPITRE XIX
ENTREE EN VIGUEUR Article 78
Sous réserve des dispositions du Chapitre III , cette Constitution demeurera ouverte à signature ou à acceptation à tous les Etats.
Article 79
(a) Les Etats pourront devenir parties à cette Constitution par : (i) la signature, sans réserve d'approbation ; (ii) la signature sous réserve d'approbation, suivie de l'acceptation ; (iii) l'acceptation pure et simple.
(b) l'acceptation deviendra effective par le dépôt d'un instrument officiel entre les mains du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies .
Article 80
Cette Constitution entrera en vigueur lorsque vingt-six Etats Membres des Nations Unies en seront devenus parties, conformément aux dispositions de l'article 79.
Article 81
Conformément à l'article 102 de la Charte des Nations Unies , le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies enregistrera cette Constitution lorsqu'elle aura été signée sans réserve d'approbation par un Etat ou au moment du dépôt du premier instrument d'acceptation.
Article 82
Le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies informera les Etats parties à cette Constitution de la date de son entrée en vigueur. Il les informera également des dates auxquelles d'autres Etats deviendront parties à cette Constitution .
EN FOI DE QUOI les Représentants soussignés , dûment autorisés à cet effet, signent la présente Constitution .
Fait en la Ville de New-York, ce vingt-deux juillet 1946, en un seul original établi en langues anglaise, chinoise, espagnole , française et russe, chaque texte étant également authentique.
Les textes originaux seront déposés dans les archives des Nations Unies. Le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies délivrera des copies certifiées conformes à chacun des Gouvernements représentés à la Conférence .

2713

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL--WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION -JULY 22,1946 2715 
 
68706-52- PT, III-

2716

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

  ,  ,  ,  , ;      ,   ,  ,         ,      ,  ,  ,   ,    ,         ,       ,         ,           ,   ,        ,  ,   ,     ,     ,    ,   ,
   ;   ,         ,  ,    ,            ,   ,  

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2717

 
   (     )             

 



   ,    : (  )     ;

(  ) ,   ,   ,   ,      ;

(  )  ,   ; (  )   ,   ,    ,     , 
 ; (  ) ,   ,    ,  ; (  )    ,      ;

(  ) ,  ,    ;

(  )  ,  ,     :

(  ) ,    ,   ,  ,    ;

,  ,  ,  , 

(  )    ,     ; ( )  ,  ,  ,         
   ; ( )       ,    ,  
  ,  

( )     ,   ; ( )    ;

( )  ,  ,       ; () ,    ,    ,  
   ,      ; ()    ,  ; ()      ;

2718

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

( )  ,    ,  ,    ;

( ) ,  ; (  )  ,  ,    ,  , 

  ; 

(  )   ,    


  
  ·  
  ,  ,    ,       ,  
        ,     ,     ,           
        ,  ·      ,    ,             
    ,  ,     ,       ,         
  ,    ,     ,     ·    ,    ,    ·     

      : 

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2719

(  ) (   ) (  ) (   ) (  )



     · 

     ,                ,         

  

 

 ,  

         

   ,      ,            

          

 
          

      

    

 :



(  ) ;

(  )     ; (  ) ;

(  )  ;     ;

2720

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
( )     ; (  )  ,   ; (  )     ,   
   (  )      , 
 ,              ,      (   ,   ,      ;     ,  ; (  )     ,   : (  )  ,     ,         ; (  ) ;
1 ( )  ,  
  F
                 ,      ,     
           ,      ·          ,      ,    ,    
    : (  )         ; (  )  ,  ,   ; (  )   ; (  )   ,   ,  ,  ; (  )   ,    
     ,        ,     ,     ,  
      ,    

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION -JULY 22, 1946 2721



 
     ,    ,   ,     ,   


    ,  ;    ,    ,   

    ,    

     ,  

 : 



(  ) ; (  ) ;

(  ) ;

(  )     ,  ,   ,   ;

(  )   ; (  )  :

(  ) ; (  )  ;

(  )  ,    ,     ,  ,   ,   ;      

   

2722

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
 
             ,   ,        ·      ,       ,  ,  ,       ·         ,     ,    ,   ,       ,       ,  ·      ,                   ,  ·      ,   ,  ,       
         
     ,           ,            ,  
        ,   ,         

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2723
.            
          ,     ,      
  
    ,  ,   ,       ;     ;     ,         ,    
         
 
   
      ( - )      ,    (  )      ,   ,               
    

2724

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

  

   ,   

  ,      

 

 ,      

  



 ,  ,    



     

 : (  )     

(  )    (  )   :(  )   (  )     
         (  )  ,   ,     
     (  )        (  )       ,      

  (  )   ,    
  ,          
     ,    

        

      ,     ,      ·      ,    ,

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2725

 

  

       

    ·  ,

     ,    ,    ,  

   ,  ,          

      ,   ,    



   
 (  )    ,         
  :    :          ;        · (  )    ,           ,         ( ) ( ) (  )   

   
       
  ,  ,  ,   

2726

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
           ,  ,    ,   
    ,     
    ,        ,  
   
    ,      
  (  )     ,     (  )  ,    ,  ,  
      
   ,              ,   
   
      ,     -- ·    ,         
   ,       ,   ,     
     ,  ,   ,   ,       

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION JULY 22,1946 2727
  ,    ,        ,  ,     ,  
  
          ·       ,       
  
    ,    ,    
     ,     ,        
   ,      ,   ,   
      ,     ·      
  
   ,      

2728

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
   (  )       :
(  )   ;
( )     ; ( )   ( )  
               
      ,           
          ,         ·
  ,     ,                 ,   ·       ·    

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2729
 ( )  


2730

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

,     ( ) ,       ,  ,        ,          .
     ,     ,        .
               ,  ,   ,    .
                    .
             .
             ,     ,   .
       ;            .
        ,            .
              .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2731
       ,             .
   ,                 ,      ( )             ,      57   .
 I 
 1     ,    "" ,        .
 II   2   ,     ,  : )            ; b)         ,    ,     ,        ,      ;  )            ; d)                  ;

2732

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
e )    ,     ,       ,     ,   ;
f )         ,     ,   ;
g )         ,    ;
h)   ,    ,    ,    ;
1 )   ,    ,     ,    ,   ,   ,   ,           -
3 )        ,      ;
k)    ,               ,               ;
1 )         ,          ;
m)       ,   ,       ;
n)       ;  )        -
 ,      ;

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2733
p)  ,       ,    ,    ,               ,       ,     ;
3)  ,      ; )        
  ; 8)       
  ,      ; t )  ,    ,  ; u) ,        , ,    ;  )          .
 III     
 3        .
 4            ( )    -  ,    XIX       .
 5  ,     
4/ ·    "Assoolate Members " . "Membres Associes ".

2734

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
      ,      1948 . ,         ( )    -   ,            ,   ,            .
 6            ,    XVI , ,       ,    4  5 ,                      .
 7             ,     ,    ,    ,     ,             .            .
 8     ,       ,     -      ,        ,     ,     .  -                 . Xa      -   .

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2735

PIABA IV 
 9

  :

 )     (   " " ) ;
b)   (    "" ) ;

c) .

PIABA V

    10

     ,  - .
 11

        , 

  ,     ,   .

      ,        ,  

     .  12

       .

 13        1,   ,    ,           .

 14          ,       ,      .      .

2736

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STA.
 15  ,        ,         .
 16              .          .
 17       .
 18    : a)     ; b)  -  ,  
     ; c )    ; d)        
       ,     ,  ,    ; 6 )  ,        ; f )     ,    ; 6)            ,    ,      ,    ,   ,      ; h )   ,   ,

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2737

  ,       ,    ,   ,             ,   ,    ;           ; 1 )   ,    ,    ,    ,               ,       ; 1)                 ;

)            ,                  CTER;

1)    ,    -

 ;

2 )    ,   

 .

 19

          ,     .               ,                
  ,    .

2738

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
 20                       .                          .                 XIV.
 21       , : a )        , -
-    ; b)   ,      -
;  )       -
 ; d)     ,     -
 ,    ,     ; 6 )     ,    ,      .
 22  ,      21 ,                   ,     ,                  .

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2739
 23         ,    .
 VI  
 24             .       ,      ,         .          ,     ,      .
 25           ,     ,      ,          ,       -  .
 26         ,      .
 27             .
 28   : )       ; b)       -
 :  )     ,   
68706-52- PT. III-

2740

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
; d)      ,
           ,   ; 6 )          ; 1 )      } 6 )       -
       ; h )   ,     ; 1 )         -
    ,   ;  ,             ,                ,             .
 29  ,       ,   ,    .
 VII 
 30           ,    .
 31          ,  . 

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2741
,    ,         .
 32     ( x officio )     , ,       ,  .        .
 33             ,              ,           ,  ,   .         ,     .        ,    .
 34              .
 35         ,   .             ,      .             .

2742

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
 36     ,    ,           .
 37                        ,    .       ,        ,    .    ,   ,                 .
TIABA VIII KOMITETH  38
       ,              ,          ,    .
 39     ,      ,        .
 40                  ,        ,      .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2743
TIABA IX 
 41        ,  ,          ,     ,            ,    ,    .        .
 42        ,  ,   ,   .
  
 43           .
   
 44 )         ,      . b)    ,    ,         ,          .            .

2744

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
 45            .
 46           .
 47      -  -    .        ,             ,         .                         ,       ,   -  .
 48            .
 49       .
 50    : a)       -
 ; b)      6)        -
      

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2745
    ,  ,     ,        ; d)              ,        ,      ; 6)          ,     ,   ; f)         ,      ,    ,     ; 6)    ,         ,    pok .
 51       ,        .   ,          .
 52       ,       .
 53       ,         .

2746

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
 54    ,         ,        ,       ,       .             ,       ,     .
 XI   
 55             .              ,    .
 56         ·                 ,   .
 57     ,      ,      ,   ,      ,        ,               .
 58       

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2747
  ,       .  XIII   59
        .  60
)             ,       .     :     ;   ,       ,         69 , 70  72;     . b)    ,     ,       ,    ,      . )                 )  b)  .
 XIV   
 61                 .
 62       ,     ,    ,     ,   .
68706-52-. III- -10

2748

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

 63         ,  ,      ,    ,       .
 64           ,     .
 65           ,      .

PIABA X-V  ,   
 66

10

        

,             .

 67 a )             ,             . b)   ,  ,   ,             ,             .
 68   ,      ,                

02 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2749
TIABA XVI    
 69              ,    57   .    ,        ,         .
 70            ,      .    ,     ,         .
 71  ,      ,               ,      ,   ,      .
 72                    ,        ,   ,    ,          -
,          .

2750

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
PIABA XVII   73
            ,         .           ,                    .
 XVIII TOLKOBAHME  74
 ,  ,  ,         .
 75           ,         ,          ,             .
 76            ,         ,             ,     .
 77              ,      .

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2751
      ,  ,       .
TIABA XIX   
 78     III ,           .
 79 )       :
1 )       ; 11 )        ;
XLIX 111 ) . b)     ».     .
 80     ,              79.
 81     102    ,          ,       ,  ,           .
 82       ,    ,      .       ,        .

2752

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
    ,      ,    ( ) .
   - , ,    ,     ,     , ,  ,     ,      .         .           ,   .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION -JULY 22, 1946 2753
CONSTITUCION DE LA
ORGANIZACION MUNDIAL DE LA SALUD

2754

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

LOS ESTADOS partes de esta Constitución declaran, en conformidad con la Carta de las Naciones Unidas, que los siguientes principios son básicos para la felicidad , las relaciones armoniosas y la seguridad de todos los pueblos :
La salud es un estado de completo bienestar físico , mental y social, y no solamente la ausencia de afecciones o enfermedades . El goce del grado máximo de salud que se pueda lograr es uno de los derechos fundamentales de todo ser humano sin distinción de raza, religión, ideología política o condición económica o social. La salud de todos los pueblos es una condición fundamental para lograr la paz y la seguridad , y depende de la más amplia cooperación de las personas y de los Estados . Los resultados alcanzados por cada Estado en el fomento y protección de la salud son valiosos para todos. La desigualdad de los diversos países, en lo relativo al fomento de la salud y el control de las enfermedades , sobre todo las trasmisibles ,
constituye un peligro común. El desarrollo saludable del niño es de importancia fundamental ; la capacidad de vivir en armonía en un mundo que cambia constantemente, es indispensable para este desarrollo. La extensión a todos los pueblos de los beneficios de los conocimientos médicos , psicológicos y afines , es esencial para alcanzar el más alto grado de salud. Una opinión pública bien informada y una cooperación activa por parte del público son de importancia capital para el mejoramiento de la salud del pueblo . Los gobiernos tienen responsabilidad en la salud de sus pueblos , la
cual sólo puede ser cumplida mediante la adopción de medidas sanitarias y sociales adecuadas.
ACEPTANDO ESTOS PRINCIPIOS , con el fin de cooperar entre sí y con otras en el fomento y protección de la salud de todos los pueblos , Las Partes Contratantes convienen en la presente Constitución y por este acto establecen la Organización Mundial de la Salud como organismo especializado de conformidad con los términos del Artículo 57 de la Carta de las Naciones Unidas.
CAPITULO I
FINALIDAD
Artículo 1
La finalidad de la Organización Mundial de la Salud (llamada de ahora en adelante Organización) será alcanzar para todos los pueblos el grado más alto posible de salud.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946

CAPITULO II

FUNCIONES

Artículo 2 Para alcanzar esta finalidad , las funciones de la Organización serán :

(a) actuar como autoridad directiva y coordinadora en asuntos de sanidad internacional ;
(b) establecer y mantener colaboración eficaz con las Naciones Unidas, los organismos especializados , las administraciones oficiales de salubridad , las agrupaciones profesionales y demás organizaciones que se juzgue convenientes ;
(c) ayudar a los gobiernos, a su solicitud , a fortalecer sus servicios de salubridad ;

(d) proporcionar ayuda técnica adecuada y , en casos de emergencia, prestar a los gobiernos la cooperación necesaria que soliciten , o acepten ;

(e) proveer o ayudar a proveer , a solicitud de las Naciones Unidas , servicios y recursos de salubridad a grupos especiales , tales como los habitantes de los territorios fideicometidos ;
(f) establecer y mantener los servicios administrativos y técnicos
que sean necesarios, inclusive los epidemiológicos y de estadística ;

(g) estimular y adelantar labores destinadas a suprimir enfermedades epidémicas, endémicas y otras ;
(h) promover, con la cooperación de otros organismos especializados cuando fuere necesario , la prevención de accidentes ;
(i) promover, con la cooperación de otros organismos especializados cuando fuere necesario , el mejoramiento de la nutrición, la habitación , el saneamiento , la recreación , las condiciones económicas y de trabajo , y otros aspectos de la higiene del medio ;

(i ) promover la cooperación entre las agrupaciones científicas y profesionales que contribuyan al mejoramiento de la salud ;
(k) proponer convenciones , acuerdos y reglamentos y hacer recomendaciones referentes a asuntos de salubridad internacional , así como desempeñar las funciones que en ellos se asignen a la Organización y que estén de acuerdo con su finalidad ;
(1) promover la salud y la asistencia maternal e infantil, y fomentar la capacidad de vivir en armonía en un mundo que cambia constantemente ;

(m) fomentar las actividades en el campo de la higiene mental ,

especihaolmmebnrte aquellas que afectan las relaciones armónicas

de los

es ;

(n) promover y realizar investigaciones en el campo de la salud ;
(0) promover el mejoramiento de las normas de enseñanza y adiestramiento en las profesiones de salubridad , medicina y afines.

2755

2756

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(p) estudiar y dar a conocer, con la cooperación de otros organismos especializados cuando fuere necesario , técnicas administrativas y sociales que afecten la salud pública y la asistencia médica desde los puntos de vista preventivo y curativo , incluyendo servicios hospitalarios y el seguro social ;
(q) suministrar información , consejo y ayuda en el campo de la salud ;
(r) contribuir a crear en todos los pueblos una opinión pública bien informada en asuntos de salud ;
(s) establecer y revisar, según sea necesario , la nomenclatura internacional de las enfermedades , de causas de muerte y de las prácticas de salubridad pública ;
(t) establecer normas uniformes de diagnóstico , según sea necesario ; (u) desarrollar, establecer y promover normas internacionales con
respecto a productos alimenticios , biológicos, farmacéuticos y similares ; (v) en general , tomar todas las medidas necesarias para alcanzar la finalidad que persigue la Organización .
CAPITULO III
MIEMBROS Y MIEMBROS ASOCIADOS
Artículo 3
La calidad de miembro de la Organización es accesible a todos los Estados .
Artículo 4
Los Miembros de las Naciones Unidas pueden llegar a ser Miembros de la Organización firmando o aceptando en otra forma esta Constitución de conformidad con las disposiciones del Capítulo XIX y de acuerdo con sus respectivos procedimientos constitucionales.
Artículo 5
Los Estados cuyos gobiernos fueron invitados para enviar observadores a la Conferencia Internacional de Salubridad celebrada en Nueva York, en 1946 , pueden llegar a ser Miembros firmando o aceptando en otra forma esta Constitución , de conformidad con las disposiciones del Capítulo XIX y de acuerdo con sus respectivos procedimientos constitucionales siempre que su firma o aceptación se completen antes de la primera sesión de la Asamblea de la Salud .
Artículo 6
Sujeto a las condiciones de todo acuerdo que se concierte entre las Naciones Unidas y la Organización , aprobado conforme al Capítulo XVI , los Estados que no lleguen a ser Miembros , según los Artículos 4 y 5 , podrán hacer solicitud de ingreso como Miembros y serán admitidos como tales cuando sus solicitudes sean aprobadas por mayoría simple de votos de la Asamblea de la Salud .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946
Artículo 7
Si un Miembro deja de cumplir con las obligaciones financieras para con la Organización , o en otras circunstancias excepcionales , la Asamblea de la Salud podrá, en las condiciones que juzgue apropiadas , suspender los privilegios de voto y los servicios a que tenga derecho tal Miembro . La Asamblea de la Salud tendrá autoridad para restablecer tales privilegios de voto y servicios .
Artículo 8
Los territorios o grupos de territorios que no sean responsables de la dirección de sus relaciones internacionales podrán ser admitidos por la Asamblea de la Salud como Miembros Asociados a solicitud hecha en nombre de tal territorio o grupo de territorios por un Miembro u otra autoridad responsable de la dirección de sus relaciones internacionales . Los representantes de los Miembros Asociados en la Asamblea de la Salud debieran ser capacitados por su competencia técnica en el campo de la salubridad y elegidos entre la población nativa. La naturaleza y extensión de los derechos y obligaciones de los Miembros Asociados serán determinados por la Asamblea de la Salud .
CAPITULO IV
ORGANOS
Artículo 9
Los trabajos de la Organización serán llevados a cabo por: (a) La Asamblea Mundial de la Salud (llamada en adelante la
Asamblea de la Salud) ;
(b) El Consejo Ejecutivo (llamado en adelante el Consejo) ; (c) La Secretaría.
CAPITULO V
LA ASAMBLEA MUNDIAL DE LA SALUD
Artículo 10 La Asamblea de la Salud estará compuesta por delegados representantes de los Miembros .
Artículo 11
Cada Miembro estará representado por no más de tres delegados, uno de los cuales será designado por el Miembro como Presidente de la delegación . Estos delegados deben ser elegidos entre las personas más capacitadas por su competencia técnica en el campo de la salubsrailduabd, y repre ridad del Msieentmando , de preferencia, la administración nacional de bro .
Artículo 12 Los delegados podrán ser acompañados de suplentes y asesores.
Artículo 13 La Asamblea de la Salud se reunirá en sesiones anuales ordinarias y en sesiones extraordinarias cuando sea necesario. Las sesiones

2757

2758

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
extraordinarias serán convocadas a solicitud del Consejo o de la mayoría de los Miembros.
Artículo 14
La Asamblea de la Salud, en cada sesión anual, designará el país o región en el cual se celebrará la siguiente sesión anual ; el Consejo fijará posteriormente el lugar. El Consejo designará el lugar en que se celebre cada sesión extraordinaria.
Artículo 15
El Consejo, previa consulta con el Secretario General de las Naciones. Unidas, fijará la fecha de cada sesión anual o extraordinaria .
Artículo 16
La Asamblea de la Salud elegirá su Presidente y demás funcionarios al principio de cada sesión anual . Estos permanecerán en sus cargos hasta que se elijan sus sucesores.
Artículo 17
La Asamblea de la Salud adoptará su propio reglamento interno .
Artículo 18 Las funciones de la Asamblea de la Salud serán :
(a) determinar la política de la Organización ; (b) nombrar los Miembros que tengan derecho a designar una per-
sona para el Consejo ; (c) nombrar el Director General ; (d) estudiar y aprobar los informes y actividades del Consejo y del
Director General y dar instrucciones al Consejo sobre los asuntos en los cuales se considere conveniente acción , estudio , investigación o informe ; (e) establecer los comités que considere necesarios para el trabajo de la Organización ; (f) vigilar la política financiera de la Organización y estudiar y aprobar su presupuesto ; (g) dar instrucciones al Consejo y al Director General para llamar la atención de los Miembros y de las organizaciones internacionales , gubernamentales o no , sobre cualquier asunto relacionado con la salubridad que estime conveniente la Asamblea de la Salud ; (h) invitar a cualquier organización , internacional o nacional , gubernamental o no gubernamental , que tenga responsabili-
dades relacionadas con las de la Organización , a que nombre representantes para participar, sin derecho a voto , en sus reuniones o en las de comités y conferencias celebradas bajo sus auspicios , en las condiciones que prescriba la Asamblea de la Salud ; pero en el caso de organizaciones nacionales , las invitaciones se harán solamente con el consentimiento del Gobierno interesado ;

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2759
(i) considerar las recomendaciones sobre salubridad hechas por la Asamblea General , el Consejo Económico y Social , el Consejo de Seguridad o el Consejo de Administración Fiduciaria de las Naciones Unidas , e informarles sobre las medidas tomadas por la Organización para poner en práctica tales recomendaciones ;
(j) informar al Consejo Económico y Social, conforme a los acuerdos que se concierten entre la Organización y las Naciones Unidas ;
(k) promover y realizar investigaciones en el campo de la salubridad , mediante el personal de la Organización , por el establecimiento de sus propias instituciones , o en cooperación con instituciones oficiales o no oficiales de cualquier Miembro , con el consentimiento de su gobierno ;
(1) establecer otras instituciones que considere conveniente ; (m) emprender cualquier acción apropiada para el adelanto de la
finalidad de la Organización.
Artículo 19 La Asamblea de la Salud tendrá autoridad para adoptar convenciones o acuerdos respecto a todo asunto que esté dentro de la competencia de la Organización . Para la adopción de las convenciones y acuerdos se requiere el voto de aprobación de las dos terceras partes. de la Asamblea de la Salud ; las convenciones y acuerdos entrarán en vigor para cada Miembro al ser aceptados por éste de acuerdo con sus procedimientos constitucionales .
Artículo 20
Cada Miembro se compromete a que , dentro de los dieciocho meses después de la adopción por la Asamblea de la Salud de una convención o acuerdo, tomará acción relativa a la aceptación de tal convención o acuerdo . Cada Miembro notificará al Director General de la acción tomada y si no acepta dicha convención o acuerdo dentro del plazo fijado, suministrará una declaración de las razones de su no aceptación . En caso de aceptación , cada Miembro conviene en presentar un informe anual al Director General, de acuerdo con el Capítulo XIV.
Artículo 21 La Asamblea de la Salud tendrá autoridad para adoptar reglamentos
referentes a:
(a) requisitos sanitarios y de cuarentena y otros procedimientos destinados a prevenir la propagación internacional de enfermedades ;
(b) nomenclaturas de enfermedades, causas de muerte, y prácticas de salubridad pública ;
(c) normas uniformes sobre procedimientos de diagnóstico de uso internacional ;
(d) normas uniformes sobre la seguridad , pureza y potencia de proidnutcetronsacbiológicos, farmacéutico i s y similares de comercio onal ;

2760

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(e) propaganda y rotulación de productos biológicos, farmacéuticos y similares de comercio internacional.
Artículo 22
Estas reglamentaciones entrarán en vigor para todos los Miembros después de que se haya dado el debido aviso de su adopción por la Asamblea de la Salud , excepto para aquellos Miembros que comuniquen al Director General que las rechazan o hacen reservas, dentro del período fijado en el aviso.
Artículo 23
La Asamblea de la Salud tendrá autoridad para hacer recomendaciones a los Miembros respecto a cualquier asunto que esté dentro de la competencia de la Organización.
CAPITULO VI
EL CONSEJO EJECUTIVO
Artículo 24
El Consejo estará integrado por dieciocho personas , designadas por igual número de Miembros. La Asamblea de la Salud , teniendo en cuenta una distribución geográfica equitativa , elegirá los Miembros que tengan derecho a designar a una persona para integrar el Consejo. Cada uno de los Miembros debe nombrar para el Consejo una persona técnicamente capacitada en el campo de la salubridad , que podrá ser acompañada por suplentes y asesores .
Artículo 25 Los Miembros serán elegidos por un período de tres años ; y pueden ser reelegidos . Sin embargo , de los Miembros elegidos en la Primera Sesión de la Asamblea de la Salud , el período de seis de ellos durará un año , y el de otros seis será de dos años , determinándolos por sorteo .
Artículo 26
El Consejo se reunirá por lo menos dos veces al año y determinará el lugar de cada sesión.
Artículo 27
El Consejo elegirá entre sus Miembros su Presidente, y adoptará su reglamento interno .
Artículo 28
Las funciones del Consejo serán: (a) llevar a efecto las decisiones y política de la Asamblea de la
Salud ; (b) actuar como órgano ejecutivo de la Asamblea de la Salud ; (c) desempeñar toda otra función que la Asamblea de la Salud le
encomiende ; (d) asesorar a la Asamblea de la Salud en asuntos que ésta le
encomiende y en los que se asigne a la Organización por convenciones , acuerdos y reglamentos ;

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2761
(e) asesorar y presentar propuestas a la Asamblea de la Salud por iniciativa propia ;
(f) preparar el programa de las sesiones de la Asamblea de la Salud ; (g) someter a la Asamblea de la Salud, para su consideración y
aprobación, un plan general de trabajo para un período determinado ; (h) estudiar todo asunto que esté dentro de su competencia ; (i) tomar medidas de emergencia , de conformidad con las funciones y recursos financieros de la Organización , para hacer frente a casos que requieran acción inmediata . En particular, podrá autorizar al Director General para tomar las medidas necesarias para combatir epidemias , participar en la organización de socorro sanitario para las víctimas de calamidades y emprender estudios e investigaciones cuya urgencia haya sido llevada a la atención del Consejo por cualquier Miembro o el Director General.
Artículo 29
El Consejo ejercerá, en nombre y representación de toda la Asamblea de la Salud, las funciones delegadas por ésta.
CAPITULO VII SECRETARIA
Artículo 30
La Secretaría se compondrá del Director General y del personal técnico y administrativo que requiera la Organización .
Artículo 31
El Director General será nombrado por la Asamblea de la Salud , a propuesta del Consejo , en las condiciones que determine la Asamblea . Sujeto a la autoridad del Consejo , el Director General será el funcionario principal técnico y administrativo de la Organización.
Artículo 32
El Director General será Secretario ex officio de la Asamblea de la Salud, del Consejo , de todas las comisiones y comités de la Organización y de las conferencias que ésta convoque . Podrá delegar tales funciones .
Artículo 33
El Director General, o su representante , podrá establecer un procedimiento, mediante acuerdo con los Miembros, que le permita tener acceso directo , en el desempeño de sus funciones, a las diversas dependencias de estos últimos , especialmente a sus administraciones de salubridad y organizaciones nacionales de salubridad , ya sean gubernamentales o no . Podrá asimismo establecer relaciones directas con organizaciones internacionales cuyas actividades estén dentro de la competencia de la Organización . Mantendrá a las oficinas regionales informadas de todo asunto que concierna a las respectivas regiones .

2762

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Artículo 34
El Director General preparará y presentará anualmente al Consejo los balances y proyectos de presupuestos de la Organización .
Artículo 35
El Director General nombrará el personal de la Secretaría de acuerdo con el reglamento de personal que establezca la Asamblea de la Salud. La consideración primordial que se tendrá en cuenta al nombrar el personal será asegurar que la eficiencia, integridad y carácter internacionalmente representativo de la Secretaría se mantenga en el nivel más alto posible. Se dará debida consideración a la importancia de contratar el personal en forma de que haya la más amplia representación geográfica posible.
Artículo 36
Las condiciones de empleo para el personal de la Organización se ajustarán en lo posible a las de otras organizaciones de las Naciones Unidas.
Artículo 37
En el cumplimiento de sus deberes el Director General y el personal no solicitarán ni recibirán instrucciones de ningún gobierno ni de ninguna autoridad ajena a la Organización . Se abstendrán de actuar en forma alguna que sea incompatible con su condición de funcionarios internacionales. Cada uno de los Miembros de la Organización se compromete, por su parte, a respetar el carácter exclusivamente internacional del Director General y del personal y a no tratar de influir sobre ellos.
CAPITULO VIII
COMITES

Artículo 38

El Consejo establecerá los comités que la Asamblea de la Salud

indique y, por iniciativa propia o propuesta del Director General,

podrá establecer cualquier otro comité que considere conveniente para

atender a todo propósito que esté dentro de la competencia de la Or-

ganización .

Artículo 39

El Consejo considerará periódicamente y , por lo menos anualmente, la necesidad de que continúe cada comité.
Artículo 40

El Consejo puede disponer la creación de comités conjuntos o mixtos con otras organizaciones o la participación en ellos de la organización , así como la representación de ésta en comités establecidos por otras organizaciones .

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION -JULY 22, 1946
CAPITULO IX
CONFERENCIAS
Artículo 41
La Asamblea de la Salud o el Consejo pueden convocar conferencias locales, generales, técnicas u otras de índole especial para el estudio de cualquier asunto que esté dentro de la competencia de la Organización y pueden disponer la representación en dichas conferencias de organizaciones internacionales y, con el consentimiento del gobierno interesado , de organizaciones nacionales, gubernamentales o no gubernamentales. La Asamblea de la Salud o el Consejo determinarán la forma en que se efectúe tal representación .
Artículo 42
El Consejo puede disponer la representación de la Organización en conferencias que éste considere que sean de interés para la Organización.
CAPITULO X
SEDE
Artículo 43
La ubicación de la sede de la Organización será determinada por la Asamblea de la Salud previa consulta con las Naciones Unidas.
CAPITULO XI ARREGLOS REGIONALES
Artículo 44
(a) La Asamblea de la Salud determinará periódicamente las regiones geográficas en las cuales sea conveniente establecer una organización regional.
(b) Con la aprobación de la mayoría de los Miembros comprendidos en cada región así determinada , la Asamblea de la Salud podrá establecer una organización regional para satisfacer las necesidades especiales de cada zona . En cada región no habrá más de una organización regional. Artículo 45
De conformidad con esta Constitución, cada organización regional será parte integrante de la Organización .
Artículo 46
Cada organización regional constará de un Comité Regional y de una Oficina Regional.
Artículo 47
Los Comités Regionales estarán compuestos por representantes de los Estados Miembros y Miembros Asociados de la región de que se trate. Los territorios o grupos de territorios de la región que no sean responsables de la dirección de sus relaciones internacionales, y que

2763

2764

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

no sean Miembros Asociados , gozarán del derecho de representación y participación en los Comités Regionales . La naturaleza y extensión de los derechos y obligaciones de estos territorios o grupos de territorios en los Comités Regionales serán determinadas por la Asamblea de la Salud , en consulta con el Miembro u otra autoridad responsable de la dirección de las relaciones internacionales de dichos territorios y con los Estados Miembros de la región .

Artículo 48

Los Comités Regionales se reunirán con la frecuencia que consideren necesaria y fijarán el lugar para cada reunión.
Artículo 49

Los Comités Regionales adoptarán su propio reglamento interno . Artículo 50

Las funciones del Comité Regional serán :
(a) formular la política que ha de regir los asuntos de índole exclusivamente regional ;
(b) vigilar las actividades de la Oficina Regional ; (c) recomendar a la Oficina Regional que se convoquen conferencias
técnicas y se lleven a cabo los trabajos o investigaciones adicionales en materia de salubridad que en opinión del Comité Regional promuevan en la región la finalidad de la Organización ; (d) cooperar con los respectivos Comités Regionales de las Naciones Unidas, con los de otros organismos especializados y con otras organizaciones internacionales regionales que tengan intereses comunes con la Organización ; (e) asesorar a la Organización , por conducto del Director General, en asuntos de salubridad internacional cuya importancia trascienda la esfera regional ; (f) recomendar contribuciones regionales adicionales por parte de los gobiernos de las respectivas regiones si la proporción del presupuesto central de la Organización asignada a la región es insuficiente para desempeñar las funciones regionales ; y (g) otras funciones que puedan ser delegadas al Comité Regional
por la Asamblea de la Salud , el Consejo o el Director General.
Artículo 51

Bajo la autoridad general del Director General de la Organización ,

la Oficina Regional será el órgano administrativo del Comité Regional.

Además, llevará a efecto , en la región , las decisiones de la Asamblea de

la Salud y del Consejo .

Artículo 52

El jefe de la Oficina Regional será el Director Regional, nombrado por el Consejo de acuerdo con el Comité Regional .
Artículo 53

El personal de la Oficina Regional será nombrado de la manera que se determine mediante acuerdo entre el Director General y el Director Regional.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
Artículo 54
La organización sanitaria panamericana representada por la Oficina Sanitaria Panamericana y las Conferencias Sanitarias Panamericanas y todas las demás organizaciones intergubernamentales regionales de salubridad que existan antes de la fecha en que se firme esta Constitución, serán integradas a su debido tiempo en la Organización . La integración se efectuará tan pronto como sea factible mediante acción común basada en el mutuo consentimiento de las autoridades competentes, expresado por medio de las organizaciones interesadas .
CAPITULO XII PRESUPUESTO Y EROGACIONES
Artículo 55
El Director General preparará y someterá al Consejo el proyecto de presupuesto anual de la Organización . El Consejo considerará y someterá a la Asamblea de la Salud dicho proyecto de presupuesto con las recomendaciones que estime convenientes .
Artículo 56
Sujeta a los acuerdos que se concierten entre la Organización y las Naciones Unidas, la Asamblea de la Salud estudiará y aprobará los presupuestos y prorrateará su monto entre los Miembros de conformidad con la escala que fije la Asamblea de la Salud.
Artículo 57
La Asamblea de la Salud, o el Consejo en nombre y representación de ésta, puede aceptar y administrar las donaciones y legados que se hagan a la Organización siempre que las condiciones a que estén sujetos sean aceptables por la Asamblea de la Salud o por el Consejo y compatibles con la finalidad y política de la Organización .
Artículo 58
Se establecerá un fondo especial para ser utilizado a discreción del Consejo para hacer frente a emergencias y contingencias imprevistas.
CAPITULO XIII VOTACIONES
Artículo 59
Cada Miembro tendrá un voto en la Asamblea de la Salud.
Artículo 60 (a) Las decisiones de la Asamblea de la Salud en asuntos im-
portantes se tomarán por el voto de una mayoría de dos tercios de los Miembros presentes y votantes . Estos asuntos comprenderán : la adopción de convenciones o acuerdos ; la aprobación de acuerdos que vinculen a la Organización con

2765

2766

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

las Naciones Unidas y organizaciones u organismos intergubernamentales de conformidad con los Artículos 69 , 70 y 72, y las reformas a esta Constitución .
(b) Las decisiones sobre otros asuntos, incluso la determinación de categorías adicionales de asuntos que deban resolverse por mayoría de dos tercios , se tomarán por la mayoría de los Miembros presentes y votantes.
(c) Las votaciones sobre asuntos análogos se harán en el Consejo y en los comités de la Organización de conformidad con los párrafos (a) y (b) de este Artículo .

CAPITULO XIV

INFORMES PRESENTADOS POR LOS ESTADOS Artículo 61

Cada Miembro rendirá a la Organización un informe anual sobre

las medidas tomadas y el adelanto logrado en mejorar la salud de su

pueblo.

Artículo 62

Cada Miembro rendirá un informe anual sobre las medidas tomadas

respecto a las recomendaciones que le haya hecho la Organización , y respecto a convenciones, acuerdos y reglamentos.

Artículo 63

Cada Miembro transmitirá sin demora a la Organización las leyes, reglamentos , informes y estadísticas oficiales de importancia , pertinentes a la salubridad , que hayan sido publicados en el Estado .
Artículo 64 Cada Miembro transmitirá informes estadísticos y epidemiológicos en la forma que determine la Asamblea de la Salud ,
Artículo 65

Cada Miembro transmitirá a petición del Consejo la información adicional concerniente a la salubridad que sea factible.
CAPITULO XV

CAPACIDAD JURIDICA, PRIVILEGIOS E INMUNIDADES Artículo 66

La Organización gozará, en el territorio de cada Miembro , de la capacidad jurídica que sea necesaria para la realización de su finalidad y el ejercicio de sus funciones.
Artículo 67

(a) La Organización gozará, en el territorio de cada Miembro , de los privilegios e inmunidades que sean necesarios para la realización de su finalidad y el ejercicio de sus funciones.
(b) Los representantes de los Miembros , las personas designadas para el Consejo y el personal técnico y administrativo de la

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2767
Organización , gozarán , asimismo , de los privilegios e inmunidades que sean necesarios para desempeñar con independencia sus funciones en relación con la Organización .
Artículo 68
La capacidad jurídica , privilegios e inmunidades, se definirán en acuerdo aparte que preparará la Organización en consulta con el Secretario General de las Naciones Unidas y que se concertará entre los Miembros.
CAPITULO XVI RELACIONES CON OTRAS ORGANIZACIONES
Artículo 69
La Organización será vinculada con las Naciones Unidas , como uno de los organismos especializados a que se refiere el Artículo 57 de la Carta de las Naciones Unidas . El acuerdo o los acuerdos por medio de los cuales se establezca la vinculación de la Organización con las Naciones Unidas estarán sujetos al voto de aprobación de las dos terceras partes de la Asamblea de la Salud.
Artículo 70
La Organización establecerá relaciones efectivas y cooperará estrechamente con otras organizaciones intergubernamentales cuando lo juzgue conveniente. Todo acuerdo formal que se concierte con tales organizaciones estará sujeto al voto de aprobación de las dos terceras partes de la Asamblea de la Salud .
Artículo 71
La Organización puede, en asuntos de su competencia , hacer arreglos apropiados para consultar y cooperar con organizaciones internacionales no gubernamentales, y, con el consentimiento del Estado interesado , con organizaciones nacionales , gubernamentales o no gubernamentales .
Artículo 72
La Organización puede , sujeta al voto de aprobación de las dos terceras partes de la Asamblea de la Salud , adquirir de cualquiera otra organización internacional u organismo cuyos propósitos y actividades estén dentro del campo de competencia de la Organización, las funciones, recursos y obligaciones que le puedan ser conferidos por acuerdos internacionales o por arreglos mutuamente aceptables concertados entre las autoridades competentes de las organizaciones respectivas .
CAPITULO XVII REFORMAS Artículo 73
Los textos de las reformas que se propongan para esta Constitución serán comunicados por el Director General a los Miembros por lo menos seis meses antes de su consideración por la Asamblea de la Salud . Las reformas entrarán en vigor para todos los Miembros

2768

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
cuando hayan sido adoptadas por el voto de aprobación de las dos terceras partes de la Asamblea de la Salud y aceptadas por las dos terceras partes de los Miembros de conformidad con sus respectivos procedimientos constitucionales.
CAPITULO XVIII
INTERPRETACION Artículo 74
Los textos en chino , español, francés, inglés y ruso de esta Constitución serán considerados igualmente auténticos.
Artículo 75
Toda divergencia o disputa respecto a la interpretación o aplicación de esta Constitución , que no sea resuelta por negociaciones o por la Asamblea de la Salud , será sometida a la Corte Internacional de Justicia, de conformidad con el Estatuto de la Corte , a menos que las partes interesadas acuerden otro medio de solucionarla.
Artículo 76 Con la autorización de la Asamblea General de las Naciones Unidas o con la autorización otorgada de acuerdo con algún convenio entre la Organización y las Naciones Unidas, la Organización puede pedir a la Corte Internacional de Justicia su opinión consultiva sobre cualquier cuestión legal que surja dentro de la competencia de la Organización .
Artículo 77
El Director General podrá comparecer ante la Corte en nombre y representación de la Organización en relación con todo procedimiento resultante de la solicitud de una opinión consultiva. El Director General hará los arreglos necesarios para presentar el caso a la Corte, incluyendo los arreglos para la argumentación de los diferentes puntos de vista sobre el caso.
CAPITULO XIX
ENTRADA EN VIGOR Artículo 78
Sujeta a las disposiciones del Capítulo III , esta Constitución queda abierta para la firma o aceptación de todos los Estados.
Artículo 79
(a) Los Estados pueden llegar a ser partes de esta Constitución mediante : (i) la firma, sin reservas en cuanto a su aprobación ; (ii) la firma sujeta a aprobación seguida por aceptación ; o (iii) la aceptación .
(b) La aceptación se efectuará mediante el depósito de un instrumento formal ante el Secretario General de las Naciones Unidas .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946

Artículo 80

Esta Constitución entrará en vigor cuando veintiséis Miembros de las Naciones Unidas hayan llegado a ser partes de ella de conformidad con las disposiciones del Artículo 79.

Artículo 81

De conformidad con el Artículo 102 de la Carta de las Naciones

Unidas, el Secretario General de las Naciones Unidas registrará esta Constitución cuando haya sido firmada sin reservas respecto a su

aprobación por un Estado o cuando se deposite el primer instrumento

de aceptación.

Artículo 82

El Secretario General de las Naciones Unidas notificará a los Estados partes de esta Constitución la fecha en que entre en vigor y comunicará también la fecha en que otros Estados lleguen a ser partes de ella .

EN FE DE LO CUAL, los infrascritos representantes debidamente autorizados para tal objeto , firman esta Constitución .
Firmada en la ciudad de Nueva York, a los veintidós días del mes de julio de mil novecientos cuarenta y seis, en una sola copia en idiomas chino , español , francés , inglés y ruso, siendo cada texto igualmente auténtico . Los textos originales se depositarán en los archivos de las Naciones Unidas . El Secretario General de las Naciones Unidas enviará copias debidamente certificadas a cada uno de los Gobiernos representados en la Conferencia.

2769

2770

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

For Argentina: Pour l'Argentine:   : Por la Argentina:
ad

referece deux

For Australia: Pour l'Australie:
 :   : Por Australia:

Subject to approval and acceptanc,e by sevement of sommsuwealth of
Australia.
pange

For the Kingdom of Belgium: our le Royaume de Belgique:
  : 3  : Por el Reino de Bélgica:
sous réserve de realification
Throzan.

For Bolivia: Pour la Polivia:

 :

Refe

 :

Ad

rendum.

Por Bolivia:

jm r. Sotelo

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2771

For Brazil: Pour le Brésili
 ! Por ol Bremil :

At referendum. QualurDaun Buy

For Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic: Pour la République Soviétique Socialiste de Bélorussie :
    : Por la República Socialista Soviética Bielorrusa:

   


Tor Chilo: Pour le Chill: Con reserva de ratificacion Constitucional

:
3& XIX: For milo:

PalioBustos A

For Canada: Pour le Canada: 
Por el Canada :

Subpet to approval Arish betontes Brock Chishol

68706-52-PT, III- -11

2772

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
For China : Pour la Chine:  : Por la China:

 MR  . Shen ,Jr.

the KZZ

JithinJuan



Keming he.

For Columbia: Pour la Colombie:
 :
Por Colombia:

Ad Referendum.

Carbo UmbeAbgume .

For Costa Rica: Pour Costa-Rica:
 :  : Por Costa Rica :

Mad

Referendum Benondes
Jain

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2773

For Cuba: Pour Cuba:
 :
 : Por Cuba :

Ad.Referendum .

2. Pedes gemeins

For Czechoslovakia: Pour la Tchécoslovaquie:
 :  : Por Checoslovaquia:

Ad referendum CosefCanny

For Denmark: Pour le Danemark:
 :  : Por Dinamarca:

Art reprendas J. Funder.

2774

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

For the Dominican Republic: Pour la République Dominicaines
  :   : Por la República Dominicana:

Ad referendum.

t

For Ecuador : Pour l'Equateur:
 :  : Por el Ecuador:

Ad . referendum Crushupsly .

For Egypt : Pour l'Egypte:  :
 : Por Egipto:

Subject to Ratification

Dr. Ath haen ange

sr y

Ta El

ha

be (

llor

oyal ounse

R

C

s. bazi IM A

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2775
For El Salvador: Pour le Salvador:  :  : Por El Salvador:
Aristides Woch (adres . )
For Ethiopia: Pour l'Ethiopie:  : 3a atomo: Por Etiopía:
Subject to ratification Gs.Tesumma

For France: Pour la France :
 :   : Por Francia:

ad inferendum Marisos

For Greece: Pour la Grèce:
:  : Por Grecia:

Ad Refermann Horien Rapassar

2776

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

For Guatemala: Pour le Guatemala:
 :
3 Tearary: Por Guatemala:

it refore

rain o

f

GG

o my

For Haiti : Pour Hafti:
 : Sa TaxTx: Por Haiti:

as referendurs

Rudon

For Honduras: Pour le Honduras:
 :  : Por Honduras:
ad offerendumJuanea lnd Icalles

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2777

For India: Pour l'Inde:
 :   Por la India:

Subject to Ratification.
cxLoa rinug me.com. amerij There Signatures are affended in agreement with His Majesty's Representative for the exercise give functims ofthe Crown in its relations with ine ludian States.

 

For Iran: Pour l'Iran: 17 #A :   Por Irán:
Subject to ralification by Iranian Parliament (Madilias) Ghassame Cham ( CM.D.)
subject tocatifashion of Irama Parland/Madplan, H.Haferie
For Iraq: Pour 1'Irak:    Por Irak:
atpreferandum
The Dopraj

2778

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
For Lebanon : Pour le Liban:  : 3 Ba : Por El Líbano:
ad referendum GeorgesHakin



For Liberia: Pour le Libéria:  : a Ixp : Por Liberia:
Ad referendum
Jreeph Magbe Jogba, Mrii,D.
Jhiwas,ad .

For the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg: Pour le Grand Duché de Luxembourg:
   :     : Por el Gran Dasado de Luxemburgo:
Sous réserve de ralification
Thispa

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2779

For Maxico : Pour le Mexique :
 : 3a Mexoxxy: Por México:

Ad Referendum Manderajang.

For the Kingdom of the Netherlands : Pour le Royaume des Pays-Bas:
   :   : Por el Reino de Holanda:
ad referendar

m a l l O

b. ay

ay m

For New Zealand: Pour la Nouvelle- Zélande:  :   : Por Nueva Zelandia:
And referend.
-

68706-52-PT. III- -12

2780

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
For Nicaragua: Pour le Nicaragua:  :  : Por Nicaragua:
ad- referendurn Surinhow

For the Kingdom of Norway: Four le Royaume de Norvège:

  :
  : Por el Reino de Noruega :

ad referendum

landl

4. Th .

ing.

For Panama: Pour le Panama:   : Por Panamá:
Ad referendum R.Kellari.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2781
For Paraguay: Pour le Paraguay:  :  : Por el Paraguay:
ad referendum Angeliquel
For Peru: Pour le Pérou: 
:  : Por el Perú:
adrefer
Rakehuge Salt, Attrora

For the Republic of the Philippines: Pour la République des Philippines:

 : Por Filipinas:

at referendumen

Warfride de Leon

2782

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
For Poland : Pour la Pologne :  :   : Por Polonia :
adreferendum EdvardGnyoneus

For Saudi Arabia: Pour l'Arabie Saoudite :
   :    : Por Arabia Saudita :

reseve ofobjection ratification, 5. Jakia Nasri D2 an ewhat Thakbelard

For Syria: Pour la Syriet

3a Carpano! Por Siria: The Oral Deo . Trofi subject to relification

 

For Turkey: Pour la Turquie:
 : 9 : Por Turquía:

Subject to ratificatio Huhumation Kabul ve Tasdikni hapli Olaran unja edingsrum

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2783
For the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic : Pour la République Soviétique Socialiste d'Ukraine:
: 3.    : Por la República Socialista Soviética Ucraniana:
Schefigh      ? . .  .
 
For the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics : Pour l'Union des Républiques Soviétiques Socialistes:  C    : : Por la Unión de Repúblicas Socialistas Soviéticas:
      

2784

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
For the United States America: Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amérique :   :     : Por los Estados Unidos de América :
Subjectto Approval Thamansañan Marita Me.Elor
Thank I 1Boudreau

For the Union of South Africa: Pour l'Union Sud-Africaine :     : Por la Unión Sudafricana :
ad

referendum

-1.5.Gear.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2785
For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland : Pour le Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord:    :    : Por el Reino Unido de la Gran Bretaña :
Melville D. Mackenzie
9.2 .Yates

For Uruguay: Pour l'Uruguay:
 :
 : Por el Uruguay:

Ad - referendumn

Juia ung Reivers BadfithReberoamy

For Venezuela: Four le Venezuela:  :  : Por Venezuela:
Ad - referandum
Murgelispin

2786

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

For Yugoslavia: Four la Yougoslavie:
# ·
  : Por Yugoslavia:

will reservations us to ratification . 

For Afghanistan: Pour l'Afghanistan:
 : Por Afganistán:
For Albania: Pour l'Albanie :
:   : Por Albania : Avec reserve
TJakar
For Anatrise: Pour l'Autriche : with reservating    : Por Austria:
 412

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION--JULY 22, 1946 2787
For Bulgaria: Pour la Bulgarie :  :  : Por Bulgaria:
Subject to ratification PA. P. Orahovat.
For Hire: Pour l'Eire:  :  : Por Irlanda:
Subyed to acceptance. Johnd .Macbonmack .
For Finland: Pour la Finlande :  :  : Por Finlandia :
ad referendum Commo Turpeinen
For Hungary: Pour la Hongrie :  :  : Por Hungría :

2788

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
For Iceland: Pour l'Islande:   :  : Por Islandia:

For Italy: Pour l'Italie:  : 3a Iram : Por Italia:
subject ratification porinialberto
For Portugal : Pour le Portugal :  : 3a Hopryra.nm : Por Portugal : subfacttoratification

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2789
For Rumania: Pour la bwanie :  : 3a Pão : Por Rumania:
For Biem: Pour le Siam :  3a Cra: Por Siam: Subject to approval
Bunliang Tamthai
For Sweden : Pour la Suède :   : Por Suecia:

2790

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
For Svitserland: Pour la Suisse :  : Sa Meenapao: Por Suiza:
sous réserve de ratification
Drybigster 4. Haute.

For TrensJordan: Pour la Transjordanie:
  3. : Por Transjordania:
Subject to Rabification

For Tomen: Pour le Yemen:
 : Sa Rovex: Por Yemen:

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION-JULY 22, 1946 2791

The foregoing is a true copy of the Constitution of the World Health Conference, signed in New York, on July 22 , 1946, in the Chinese, English, French, Russian , and Spanish languages , the original of which is deposited in the Archives of the United Nations .

Le texte qui précède est une copie exacte de la Constitution de l'Organisation Mondiale de la Santé, signée à New York , le 22 juillet 1946 , en langues anglaise , chinoise , espagnole , française et russe , dont l'original a été déposé dans les archives des Nations Unies . "

For the Secretary- General : Pour le Sécretaire général :
8: Wan Kerus
Assistant Secretary- General for Legal Affairs . Sous-Secretaire général pour les Affaires Juridiques .

2792

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

The United States Representative to the United Nations to the SecretaryGeneral ofthe United Nations
UNITED STATES MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS June 19, 1948
The United States Representative at the seat of the United Nations presents his compliments to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and has the honor to transmit herewith the acceptance on the part of the United States of America of the Constitution of the World Health Organization , which was signed for the United States of America, subject to approval, on July 22 , 1946 .
This acceptance was signed by the President of the United States of America on June 14 , 1948 , acting pursuant to the authority granted by the joint resolution of the Congress of the United States of America 62 Stat . , Pt. 1 , p . 441. approved on June 14 , 1948 (Public Law 643 , 80th Congress) and subject to the provisions of that joint resolution . A certified copy of the joint resolution is enclosed for your information . Enclosures :
1. Instrument of acceptance.
2. Certified copy of Public Law 643 , 80th Congress . UN 2193

ACCEPTANCE ON THE PART OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
I , Harry S. Truman , President of the United States of America, acting pursuant to the authority granted by the joint resolution of the Congress of the United States of America approved June 14 , 62 Stat. , Pt. 1 , p. 441. 1948 (Public Law 643 , 80th Congress) , and subject to the provisions of that joint resolution , hereby accept on behalf of the United States of America the Constitution of the World Health Organization , which was signed for the United States of America, subject to approval, on July 22 , 1946 .
Done at Washington this fourteenth day of June, 1948. HARRY STRUMAN

The Secretary-General of the United Nations to the Secretary of State

UNITED NATIONS

NATIONS UNIES

LAKE SUCCESS , NEW YORK . FIELDSTONE 7-1100

REFERENCE : C. N. 100. 1948. TREATIES

16 July 1948

SIR, I have the honour to refer to my letter C. N. 88.1948 . TREATIES
of 30 June 1948 ['] concerning the acceptance of the Constitution of the World Health Organization by the United States of America.
I have now been informed by the Executive Secretary of the Interim Commission of the World Health Organization that on 2 July
1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION - JULY 22, 1946 2793

1948 the World Health Assembly unanimously approved the admission of the United States of America as a Member of the World Health Organization. It is accordingly to be considered that the United States of America has become party to the Constitution of the World Health Organization as from 21 June 1948, the date of deposit with the Secretary-General of the United Nations of its instrument of acceptance of the said Constitution.
The present notification is made in accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution.
I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient Servant,

Ante, p. 2694.

For the Secretary-General

Yuen - 4 Tiany
Yuen-Li Liang Director

The Honorable GEORGE C. MARSHALL

Legal Department

Secretary of State Department of State Washington, 25, DC

Note by the Department of State (a) Parties to the Constitution of the World Health Organization, June 21, 1948[¹ )

The following countries had accepted the Constitution of the World Health Organization by June 21 , 1948, the date of acceptance by the United States of America . All , with the exception of those countries
the names of which are preceded in each case by an asterisk ( *) , were members of the United Nations .

Country UNITED STATES Afghanistan . *Albania .

Date of deposit of acceptance
June 21 , 1948 · April 19, 1948

Australia

May 26, 1947

*Austria .

February 2, 1948

Brazil

· June 30, 1947

*Bulgaria

June 2 , 1948 · June 9, 1948

Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic

Canada .

April 7, 1948

China

· August 29, 1946

Czechoslovakia

· July 22, 1946

Denmark .

March 1 , 1948

Dominican Republic

April 19, 1948

June 21 , 1948

SOURCE: A list of "Members of the World Health Organization " issued on Sept. 16, 1948, by the World Health Organization .

2794

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Country Egypt . Ethiopia . *Finland . · France · Greece Haiti . *Hungary Iceland . India . · Iran · Iraq · *Ireland . *Italy . Liberia .
Mexico . New Zealand Netherlands . · Norway Poland · *Portugal · *Rumania Saudi Arabia Siam . . Sweden . *Switzerland . Syria . *Transjordan . Turkey .
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic . Union of South Africa
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics . United Kingdom . Yugoslavia . ·

Date ofdeposit of acceptance
· December 16, 1947 April 11, 1947 October 7, 1947
· June 16, 1948 · March 12, 1948
August 12, 1947 · June 17, 1948
June 17, 1948
January 12, 1948 November 23, 1946 · September 23, 1947 October 20, 1947 · April 11 , 1947 March 14, 1947 · April 7, 1948 December 10, 1946 · April 25, 1947 August 18, 1947 May 6, 1948 · February 13, 1948 June 8, 1948
May 26, 1947 · September 26, 1947 . August 28, 1947 · March 26, 1947
December 18, 1946 April 7, 1947 January 2, 1948 · · April 3 , 1948 August 7, 1947 . March 24, 1948 July 22, 1946 · November 19, 1947

(b) Romanization of the Facsimile Signatures FOR ARGENTINA :
ALBERTO ZWANCK
FOR AUSTRALIA : A. H. TANGE
FOR THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM : Dr. M DE LAET .
FOR BOLIVIA: LUIS V. SOTELO
FOR BRAZIL: GERALDO Paula Souza
FOR BYELORUSSIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC : N. EVSTAFIEV
FOR CHILE : JULIO BUSTOS A

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946 2795
FOR CANADA : BROOKE CLAXTON BROCK CHISHOLM
FOR CHINA: SHEN, J. K. L. CHIN YUAN SZEMING SZE.
FOR COLOMBIA: CARLOS URIBE AGUIRRE .
FOR COSTA RICA: JAIME BENAVIDES.
FOR CUBA: Dr PEDRO NOGUEIRA VICTOR SANTAMARINA
FOR CZECHOSLOVAKIA : Dr JOSEF CANCIK.
FOR DENMARK : J. OERSKOV.
FOR THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC : Dr L. F. THOMEN.
FOR ECUADOR : R. NEVAREZ VASQUEZ
FOR EGYPT : Dr. A. T CHOUCHA TAHA ELSAYED NASR BEY M S. ABAZA.
FOR EL SALVADOR : ARISTIDES MOLL
FOR ETHIOPIA : G. TESEMMA.
FOR FRANCE: J PARISOT
FOR GREECE : Dr PHOKION KOPANARIS
FOR GUATEMALA : G MORAN JA MUÑOZ
FOR HAITI: RULX LEÓN

2796

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
FOR HONDURAS : JUAN MANUEL FIALLOS
FOR INDIA : C. K. LAKSHMANAN C. MANI
FOR IRAN: GHASSEME GHANI (M. D.) H. HAFEZI
FOR IRAQ : S AL-ZAHAWI Dr IHSAN DOGRAMAJI
FOR LEBANON : GEORGES HAKIM Dr A MAKHLOUF
FOR LIBERIA : JOSEPH NAGBE TOGBA, M. D. JOHN B WEST, M. D.
FOR THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG: Dr. M DE LAET.
FOR MEXICO : MONDRAGÓN.
FOR THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS : C BERG C. BANNING. W. A. TIMMERMAN
FOR NEW ZEALAND : T. R. RITCHIE .
FOR NICARAGUA: A. SEVILLA-SACASA
FOR THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY : H. TH. SANDBERG.
FOR PANAMA : J. J. VALLARINO.
FOR PARAGUAY : ANGEL R GINÉS
FOR PERU: CARLOS ENRIQUE PAZ SOLDÁN ALB. TORANZO.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION- JULY 22, 1946
FOR THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES : H LARA WALFRIDO DE LEON
FOR POLAND : EDWARD GRZEGORZEWSKI
FOR SAUDI ARABIA : Dr. YAHIA NASRI Dr. MEDHAT CHEIKH AL ARDH
FOR SYRIA : Dr. C. TREFI
FOR TURKEY : Z N BARKER
FOR THE UKRAINIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC : L. I MEDVED I I KALTCHENKO
FOR THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS : F G. KROTKOV
FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : THOMAS PARRAN MARTHA M. ELIOT FRANK G BOUDREAU
FOR THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA: H. S. GEAR.
FOR THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND : MELVILLE D. MACKENZIE G. E. YATES
FOR URUGUAY : José A. MORA R RIVERO CARLOS M. BARBEROUSSE
FOR VENEZUELA : A ARREAZA GUZMÁN
FOR YUGOSLAVIA: Dr A. STAMPAR
FOR AFGHANISTAN :

2797

FOR ALBANIA: T. JAKOVA.

2798

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. FOR AUSTRIA :
Dr MARIUS KAISER . FOR BULGARIA:
Dr D. P. ORAHOVATZ . FOR EIRE :
JOHN D. MACCORMACK. FOR FINLAND :
OSMO TURPEINEN FOR HUNGARY :
FOR ICELAND : FOR ITALY:
GIOVANNI ALBERTO CANAPERIA FOR PORTUGAL :
FRANCISCO JOSE C CAMBOURNAC FOR RUMANIA : FOR SIAM :
BUNLIANG TAMTHAI FOR SWEDEN :
FOR SWITZERLAND : Dr J EUGSTER A. SAUTER.
FOR TRANSJORDAN : Dr. D P. TUTUNJI
FOR YEMEN :

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL RECIPROCAL TRADE- JUNE 30, 1948

2799

Agreement between the United States of America and Brazil respecting reciprocal trade, rendering inoperative the agreements of February 2, 1935, and April 17, 1935, and supplementing the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rio de Janeiro June 30, 1948; entered into force June 30, 1948, effective July 31 , 1948.

June 30, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1811]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 173 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Rio de Janeiro , Brazil, June 30, 1948 .

I have noted with pleasure that the Government of the United

States of Brazil has signed today the protocol for the provisional

application of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade dated

October 30, 1947. [1]

61 Stat . , Pt . 6, p. A2051.

In this connection I have the honor to refer to conversations be-

tween representatives of the Brazilian Government and the Govern-

ment of the United States of America to the second session of the

Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade

and Employment , with respect to the effect of the entry into force of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade between the United States of America and the United States of Brazil upon the trade agreement between our two Governments concluded in 1935.

49 Stat. 3808.

It is the understanding of the United States Government that it

was then mutually agreed that the trade agreement between the United States of America and the United States of Brazil, signed February 2, 1935 , except for those provisions of Art. XIV thereof providing for termination upon six months notice, the notes exchanged February 2, 1935, to accompany that agreement, and the supplementary agreement with accompanying exchange of notes signed April 17 , 1935 , shall be inoperative for such time as the United States of America and the United States of Brazil are both contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade as defined in Art. XXXII of that agreement.

49 Stat. 3821.
49 Stat. 3837. 49 Stat. 3834.
61 Stat. , Pt . 5 , P. 475.

¹ See paragraph 3 of the protocol for the provisional application of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade dated Oct. 30, 1947, which reads:
"3. Any other Government signatory to this Protocol shall make effective such provisional application of the General Agreement, on or after January 1 , 1948, upon the expiration of thirty days from the day of signature of this Protocol on behalf of such Government."

2800

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
I shall be pleased to receive your Excellency's confirmation of the understanding set forth above.
Accept, Your Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration . Chargé d'Affaires ad interim DAVID MCK. KEY
His Excellency Dr. RAUL FERNANDES, Minister for Foreign Affairs.

The Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

49 Stat. 3808. 49 Stat. 3821.

MINISTERIO DAS RELAÇÕES EXTERIORES, RIO DE JANEIRO

DE/70/890 . (42) (22)

Em 30 de junho de 1948 .

SENHOR ENCARREGADO DE NEGÓCIOS ,

Tenho a honra de acusar o recebimento da nota de Vossa Senhoria,
sob o nº 173 , datada de hoje, em que propõe , de conformidade com o estabelecido anteriormente entre os Governos do Brasil e dos
Estados Unidos da América, que o Acôrdo comercial em vigor entre ambos, firmado a 2 de fevereiro de 1935 , tenha os seus efeitos sus-
pensos com exceção das provisões constantes do respectivo Artigo XIV - enquanto os dois países forem partes contratantes do Acôrdo
Geral de Tarifas e Comércio , dentro da definição contida no Artigo XXXII do referido Acôrdo Geral.

2. Em resposta , cumpre-me comunicar a Vossa Senhoria que o Govêrno brasileiro aceita a proposta em aprêço, assumindo , em consequência, os compromissos dela decorrentes .
Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Senhoria os protestos da minha mui distinta consideração .
RAUL FERNANDES

Ao Senhor DAVID MCKENDREE KEY, Encarregado de Negócios dos Estados Unidos da América

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS ,

RIO DE JANEIRO .

DE/70/890. (42) (22)

June 30, 1948 .

MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note No. 173 dated today, in which you propose, in accordance with what was previously determined by the Governments of Brazil and the United States of America , that the trade agreement in effect between the two Governments, signed on February 2 , 1935 , be suspended , with the exception of the provisions of Article XIV thereof, in as much as both countries are contracting parties to the General Agreement on

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL-RECIPROCAL TRADE- JUNE 30, 1948

2801

61 Stat . , Pt . 5 , Tariffs and Trade, as defined in Article XXXII of the said General p. A75.
Agreement .

2. In reply, I am to inform you that the Brazilian Government accepts the proposal under consideration and therefore assumes the obligations arising therefrom .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurances of my very distinguished consideration .
RAUL FERNANDES

Mr. DAVID MCKENDREE KEY,

Chargé d'Affaires of the United States of America

2802

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

September 14, 1948 IT. I. A. S. 1812]

Agreement between the United States of America and New Zealand respecting a United States Educational Foundation in New Zealand.
Signed at Wellington September 14 , 1948 ; entered into force September 14, 1948.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW ZEALAND FOR THE USE OF FUNDS MADE AVAILABLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW ZEALAND ON SETTLEMENT FOR LEND - LEASE AND RECIPROCAL AID, SURPLUS WAR PROPERTY, AND CLAIMS , SIGNED AT WASHINGTON ON JULY 10 , 1946.

The Government of the United States of America and the Govern-

ment of New Zealand ;

Desiring to promote further mutual understanding between the peoples of the United States of America and New Zealand by a wider

exchange of knowledge and professional talents through educational contacts ;

Considering that Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Prop-

6500 StUa.t.7S7.554.C. app. erty Act of 1944 , as amended by Public Law No. 584, 79th Congress ,

§ 1641 (b).

provides that the Secretary of State of the United States of America

may enter into an agreement with any foreign government for the use of currencies or credits for currencies of such foreign government ac-

quired as a result of surplus property disposals for certain educational activities ; and

Considering that under the provisions of Section II of the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and

the Government of New Zealand on Settlement for Lend-Lease,

60 Stat. 1794.

Reciprocal Aid , Surplus War Property, and Claims , signed at Washington on July 10 , 1946 (hereinafter designated "the Settlement Agreement") it is provided that the Government of New Zealand , in consideration of the value of surplus noncombat lend-lease aircraft

60 Stat. 1791.

and related spares diverted to civilian use, and of other surplus property covered by the contract between the Government of the United States and the Government of New Zealand dated December
18, 1945, [ '] as amended in the Settlement Agreement, and in order to further educational and cultural relationships between the two

60 Stat. 1794.

countries by means of scholarships or otherwise in a manner mutually agreeable, will pay to the Government of the United States the value of such aircraft and related spares and surplus property as provided in paragraphs 8 and 9 of the Settlement Agreement, by any of the

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND--U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-SEPT. 14, 1948 2803

following methods (inter alia) or any combination thereof designated by the Government of the United States , employing in every case the rate of 3.2442 United States dollars to one New Zealand pound ;
(a) by delivery of title to the Government of the United States by the Government of New Zealand of such real property and improvements to real property in New Zealand as may be selected and determined by agreement between the two Governments, aggregating in value not more than $ 1,200,000 ;
(b) by establishment of a fund in New Zealand pounds , equivalent to not more than the remaining amount due to the Government of the United States under the Settlement Agreement , for expenditure in accordance with agreement to be reached between the two Governments for carrying out educational and cultural programs of benefit to the two countries .

60 Stat. 1791.

Have agreed as follows: Article 1

There shall be established a foundation to be known as the United United States Educational Foundation
States Educational Foundation in New Zealand (hereinafter designated in New Zealand. "the Foundation " ) , which shall be recognised by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of New Zealand as an organisation created and established to facilitate the adminis-

tration of the educational program to be financed by funds made available by the Government of New Zealand under the terms of this agreement. Except as provided in Article 3 hereof the Foundation

shall be exempt from the domestic and local laws of the United States of America and of New Zealand as they relate to the use and expenditure of currencies and credits for currencies for the purposes set forth in the present agreement.
All of the funds made available by the Government of New Zealand , within the conditions and limitations hereinafter set forth , shall be used by the Foundation or such other instrumentality as may be

Use of funds.

agreed upon by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of New Zealand for the purpose, as set forth in Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended, of

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1641 (b).

(1) financing studies, research, instruction , and other educational activities of or for citizens of the United States of America in schools.
and institutions of higher learning located in New Zealand or of the nationals of New Zealand in United States schools and institutions of higher learning located outside the continental United States , Hawaii , Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands) , Puerto Rico , and the Virgin Islands, including payment for transportation , tuition , maintenance, and other expenses incident to scholastic activities ; or (2) furnishing transportation for nationals of New Zealand who desire to attend United States schools and institutions of higher learning in the continental United States, Hawaii , Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands) , Puerto Rico , and the Virgin Islands and whose
68706-52- FT. III- -13

2804

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

attendance will not deprive citizens of the United States of America of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions.

Article 2

Powers of Founda-

tion.

In furtherance of the aforementioned purposes, the Foundation

may, subject to the provisions of Article 10 of the present agreement,

exercise all powers necessary to the carrying out of the purposes of the

present agreement including the following:

(1) Receive funds.

(2) Open and operate bank accounts in the name of the Foundation in a depository or depositories to be designated by the Secretary of State of the United States of America .

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. 8. C. app. 1641 (b).
60 Stat. 754. 50 U. 8. C. app. § 1641 (b).

(3) Disburse funds and make grants and advances of funds for the authorised purposes of the Foundation .
(4) Acquire, hold, and dispose of property in the name of the Foundation as the Board of Directors of the Foundation may consider necessary or desirable, provided however that the acquisition of any real property shall be subject to the prior approval of the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
(5) Plan, adopt, and carry out programs, in accordance with the purposes of Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended , and the purposes of the present agreement .
(6) Recommend to the Board of Foreign Scholarships , provided for in the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended , students, professors , research scholars , resident in New Zealand , and institutions of New Zealand qualified to participate in the program in accordance with the aforesaid Act.

(7) Recommend to the aforesaid Board of Foreign Scholarships such qualifications for the selection of participants in the program as it may deem necessary for achieving the purpose and objectives of the Foundation .

Annual budget.

(8) Provide for periodic audits of the accounts of the Foundation as directed by auditors selected by the Secretary of State of the United States of America . (9) Engage administrative and clerical staff and fix the salaries and wages thereof.
Article 3
All expenditures by the Foundation shall be made pursuant to an annual budget to be approved by the Secretary of State of the United States of America pursuant to such regulations as he may prescribe.
Article 4
The Foundation shall not enter into any commitment or create any obligation which shall bind the Foundation in excess of the funds actually on hand nor acquire, hold , or dispose of property except for the purposes authorised in the present agreement.

62 STAT.] NEW ZEALAND-U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- SEPT. 14, 1948 2805

Article 5 The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation

Board of Directors.

shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of eight Directors (hereinafter designated the " Board" ) .

The principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the
United States of America to New Zealand (hereinafter designated Honorary Chair-
"Chief of Mission" ) shall be Honorary Chairman of the Board. The man.
members of the Board shall be as follows : (a) three officers of the

United States Foreign Service Establishment in New Zealand , one of whom shall serve as Chairman and one of whom shall serve as Treas-

urer; (b) two citizens of the United States of America , preferably one representative of American business interests in New Zealand and

preferably one representative of American educational interests in

New Zealand ; and (c) three nationals of New Zealand , one of whom

shall be prominent in the field of education . The United States.

members shall be appointed and removed by the Chief of Mission ; the New Zealand members by Chief of Mission after consultation and agreement with the Government of New Zealand . Vacancies by

reason of resignations, transfers of residence outside of New Zealand , expiration of term of service, or otherwise shall be filled in accordance with this procedure.

The five members specified in (b) and (c) of the last preceding paragraph shall be resident in New Zealand and , subject to removal as hereinbefore provided , shall serve from the time of their appointment until the succeeding December 31 next following such appointment. They shall be eligible for reappointment.

The Directors shall serve without compensation, but the Founda-

tion is authorised to pay the necessary expenses of the Directors in attending meetings of the Board .

Article 6
The Board shall adopt such by-laws and appoint such committees as it shall deem necessary for the conduct of the affairs of the Foundation.
Article 7
Reports as directed by the Secretary of State of the United States of America shall be made annually on the activities of the Foundation to the Secretary of State of the United States of America and the Government of New Zealand.

By -laws, etc. Reports.

Article 8
The principal office of the Foundation shall be in Wellington, but meetings of the Board and any of its committees may be held in such other places as the Board may from time to time determine, and the activities of any of the Foundation's officers or staff may be carried on at such places as may be approved by the Board .
Article 9
The Board may appoint an Executive Officer and determine his salary and term of service, provided however, that in the event it is

Principal office, etc. Executive Officer.

2806

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

found to be impracticable for the Board to secure an appointee acceptable to the Chairman, the Government of the United States of America may provide an Executive Officer and such assistants as may be deemed necessary to ensure the effective operation of the program . The Executive Officer shall be responsible for the direction and supervision of the Board's programs and activities in accordance with the Board's resolutions and directives. In his absence or disability, the Board may appoint a substitute for such time as it deems necessary or
desirable .

Article 10

Decisions of the

Board.

The decisions of the Board in all matters may in the discretion of

the Secretary of State of the United States of America , be subject to his review.

Article 11

Availability of New Zealand currency.
60 Stat. 1794.

The Government of New Zealand shall, as and when requested by the Government of the United States of America for the purposes of this agreement , make available to the Treasurer of the United States
of America, amounts of currency of the Government of New Zealand up to an aggregate amount of the currency of the Government of New Zealand equivalent to $2,300,000 (United States currency) . In accordance with the terms of Section II of the Settlement Agreement the rate of exchange between currency of the Government of New Zealand and United States currency to be used in determining the amount of currency of the Government of New Zealand to be made available from time to time hereunder shall , until July 10 , 1949 , be
3.2442 United States dollars to one New Zealand pound . After July 10 , 1949 , the rate shall be the rate available to the United States. of America for its diplomatic and other official expenditures in New Zealand, on the respective days such amounts of currency are made available.

The Secretary of State of the United States of America will make available to the Foundation currency of the Government of New Zealand in such amounts as may be required by the Foundation but in no event in excess of the budgetary limitations established pursuant to Article 3 of the present agreement.

Article 12

Tax exemption.

Furniture, equipment, supplies, and any other articles intended for official use of the Foundation shall be exempt in the territory of New Zealand from customs duties, excises , and surtaxes , and every other form of taxation.
All funds and other property used for the purposes of the Foundation, and all official acts of the Foundation within the scope of its purposes shall likewise be exempt from taxation of every kind in the territory of New Zealand .
Article 13

The Government of New Zealand shall extend to citizens of the United States of America residing in New Zealand and engaged in educational activities under the auspices of the Foundation such

62 STAT. ] NEW ZEALAND-U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-- SEPT. 14, 1948 2807

privileges with respect to exemption from taxation and other burdens affecting the entry, travel, and residence of such persons , as are extended to New Zealand nationals residing in the United States of America engaged in similar activities .
Article 14
"Secretary of State Wherever, in the present agreement the term " Secretary of State of the United States of the United States of America " is used, it shall be understood to of America. mean the Secretary of State of the United States of America or any officer or employee of the Government of the United States of America designated by him to act in his behalf.

Article 15

The present agreement may be amended by the exchange of diplomatic notes between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of New Zealand .

Amendment of agreement.

Article 16

The present agreement shall come into force upon the date of signature.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned , being duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments , have signed the present agreement.

Entry into force.

DONE at Wellington this fourteenth day of September, 1948 .

[SEAL]

R. M. SCOTTEN

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :

[SEAL]

P. FRASER.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW ZEALAND :

2808

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

October 6, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1813

Agreement between the United States of America and Argentina respecting a military advisory mission to Argentina . Signed at Washington October 6, 1948; entered into force October 6, 1948.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CONVENIO ENTRE EL GOVERNMENT OF THE GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNITED STATES OF AMERI- UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y EL CA AND THE GOVERNMENT GOBIERNO DE LA REPUOF THE REPUBLIC OF BLICA ARGENTINA ARGENTINA

In conformity with the request De conformidad con lo solici-

ofthe Government of the Republic tado por el Gobierno de la Reof Argentina to the Government pública Argentina al Gobierno de of the United States of America, los Estados Unidos de América, the President of the United States el Presidente de los Estados Uniof America has authorized the dos de América ha autorizado el appointment of officers and non- nombramiento de oficiales y subcommissioned officers of the oficiales del Ejército de los Estados

United States Army to serve as Unidos para actuar como Asesores

Military Advisers to the Argen- Militares del Ejército Argentino,

tine Army, under the conditions de acuerdo con las condiciones que

specified below:

se estipulan a continuación:

TITLE I

TITULO I

Purpose and Duration

Propósitos y Duración

ARTICLE 1. The purpose of ARTICULO 1. La asignación de

assigning the Advisers is to co- los Asesores tiene por propósito

operate with the military author- cooperar con las autoridades mili-

ities of the Argentine Army in the tares del Ejército Argentino en la

instruction of troops , in order to instrucción de las tropas, con el

contribute, through their greater fin de contribuir, por su mayor

experience and professional knowl- experiencia y conocimientos pro-

edge, to increase the efficiency of fesionales , a aumentar la eficiencia

the Argentine Army.

del Ejército Argentino .

ARTICLE 2. This Agreement ARTICULO 2. Este convenio

shall continue in force for a period permanecerá en vigor por un of four (4) years from the date of período de cuatro (4 ) años a the signing thereof by the ac- partir de la fecha en que lo credited representatives of the firmen los representantes autoriGovernment of the United States zados del Gobierno de los Estados

of America and the Government Unidos de América y del Gobierno of the Republic of Argentina de la República Argentina , a unless previously terminated or menos que se dé por terminado extended as hereinafter provided . con anterioridad o que se prorro-

Any of the Advisers may be gue según se dispone más adelante . recalled by the Government of the Cualquiera de los Asesores podrá

62 STAT. ] ARGENTINA- MILITARY MISSION-OCT. 6, 1948

2809

United States of America after ser retirado por el Gobierno de los the expiration of two years of Estados Unidos de América desservice, in which case another pués de transcurridos dos años de officer with suitable qualifications servicio y, en tal caso, se suplirá

shall be furnished to replace him. en su lugar otro miembro de
competencia satisfactoria . Extension ofservices
ARTICLE 3. If the Government ARTICULO 3. Si el Gobierno de of Advisers.

of the Republic of Argentina la Argentina deseara que los should desire that the services of servicios de los Asesores se prorro-

the Advisers be extended beyond gasen más allá del período estipu-

the stipulated period , it shall make lado , presentará por escrito una

a written proposal to that effect solicitud a tal efecto seis meses

six months before the expiration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 4. This Agreement

antes del vencimiento de este Convenio .
ARTICULO 4. Este Convenio

Termination priorto specified time.

may be terminated before the podrá extinguirse antes del ven-

expiration of the four-year period cimiento del término de cuatro

prescribed in Article 2 , or before años que dispone el Artículo 2 , o

the expiration of the extension antes de vencer la prórroga auto-

authorized in Article 3 , in the rizada en el Artículo 3 , de la

following manner:

manera siguiente:

(a) By either of the Govern- (a) Por cualquiera de los dos

ments, subject to three months' Gobiernos, siempre que uno de

written notice to the other Gov- ellos lo notifique al otro por escrito

ernment ;

con tres meses de anticipación ;

(b) By recall of the Advisers (b) Por el retiro de los Asesores

by the Government of the United por parte del Gobierno de los

States of America or by the Gov- Estados Unidos de América o del

ernment of the Republic of Argen- Gobierno de la República Argen-

tina, in the public interest of tina , por el bien público de cualeither of these two countries, quiera de los dos países, sin necesi-

without necessity of compliance dad de cumplir con el inciso (a) with provision (a) of this Article . de este Artículo .

ARTICLE 5. This Agreement is ARTICULO 5. Este Convenio está
subject to cancellation upon the sujeto a cancelación por iniciativa , initiative of either the Govern- ya sea del Gobierno de los Estados ment of the United States of Unidos de América o del Gobierno America or the Government of the de la República Argentina en el

Cancellation in case of hostilities.

Republic of Argentina in case caso de que cualquiera de los dos either country becomes involved países se vea implicado en hostiliin foreign or domestic hostilities. dades intestinas o externas.

TITLE II

TITULO II

Composition and Personnel

Integración y Personal

ARTICLE 6. The Advisers shall ARTICULO 6. Los Asesores serán

be such personnel of the United los miembros del Ejército de los

States Army as may be agreed Estados Unidos que de mutuo upon by the Department of the acuerdo determinen el DepartaArmy of the United States of mento de Ejército de los Estados

2810

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

America or its authorized repre- Unidos de América o su represen-

sentative, and by the Ministry of tante autorizado , y el Ministerio

War of the Republic of Argentina de Guerra de la República Argen-

through its authorized representa- tina , por conducto de su represen-

tive in Washington.

tante autorizado en Washington.

The individuals to be assigned Las personas que se asignen

shall be those agreed upon by the serán aquéllas que de mutuo acuer-

Department of the Army of the do determinen el Departamento United States of America or its del Ejército de los Estados Unidos

authorized representative, and by de América o su representante

the Ministry of War of the Repub- autorizado , y el Ministerio de

lic of Argentina or its authorized Guerra de la República Argentina

representative.

o su representante autorizado .

In the assignment of individuals , En la designación de las per-

their professional ability or value sonas se tendrá en cuenta, en

from the standpoint of the special- primer término , su capacidad o ty or mission which they will per- valor profesional desde el punto form shall be taken primarily into de vista de la especialidad o misión consideration . If possible, the que deberá cumplir. En lo posiofficer or non-commissioned officer ble, el oficial o suboficial designado appointed shall have had war poseerá experiencia de guerra con

experience with modern combat los materiales de lucha modernos .

equipment. The knowledge of El conocimiento del idioma espa-

the Spanish language is highly ñol es altamente deseable .

desirable .

TITLE III

TITULO III

Duties, Rank, and Precedence

Funciones, Grado y Precedencia

ARTICLE 7. The Advisers shall ARTICULO 7. Los Asesores des-

perform such duties as may be empeñarán las funciones que de agreed upon between the Ministry mutuo acuerdo determinen el Mi-

of War of the Republic of Argen- nisterio de Guerra de la República

tina (Office of the Commander in Argentina (Comando en Jefe del

Rank and uniform.

Chief of the Army) and the Chief Ejército ) y el Jefe de los Asesores . Adviser .
ARTICLE 8. The Advisers shall ARTICULO 8. Los Asesores pres-

serve with the rank they hold in tarán sus servicios con el grado

the United States Army and shall que tengan en el Ejército de los

wear the uniform of their rank in Estados Unidos y vestirán el

the United States Army.

uniforme correspondiente a su

grado en el Ejército de los Estados Unidos .

Due to their position as Ad- Dado su carácter de Asesores ,

visers , they shall not have any no tendrán atribuciones de mando , command functions , except when salvo cuando en forma especial se specially granted to them, in each las otorgue, en cada caso, el

case, by the Office of the Com- Comando en Jefe del Ejército mander in Chief of the Army (Inspección General de Instruc(Office of the Inspector General ción del Ejército) . of Instruction of the Army) .

62 STAT.] ARGENTINA-MILITARY MISSION- OCT. 6, 1948

2811

As for precedence, they shall En cuanto a la precedencia,

conform to the order established ocuparán el lugar que les acuerden,

by civilian and military protocol, el protocolo civil y militar en cada

in each case, according to their caso, en concordancia con la

rank and seniority.

jerarquía y años de antigüedad en

el grado .

ARTICLE 9. The Advisers shall ARTICULO 9. Los Asesores es-

serve under the Office of the tarán a órdenes del Comando en

Commander in Chief of the Army Jefe del Ejército (Inspección Ge-

Precedence.

(Office of the Inspector General of neral de Instrucción del Ejército )

Instruction of the Army) or under o de cualquier otra autoridad con

any other authority depending dependencia directa del Minis-

directly from the Ministry of War, terio de Guerra, por intermedio through the Chief Adviser. In del Jefe de los Asesores . En el

the performance of their mission desempeño de sus funciones en los

in the Army organization in which organismos del Ejército en que

they will serve, they shall advise presten sus servicios, asesorarán

directly the respective Command- directamente a los Jefes respecti-

ing Officers, in accordance with vos en concordancia con lo esta-

Article 7, with no implication of blecido en el Artículo 7, sin que

their being subordinated to or de- esto implique subordinación

pendent from said Commanding dependencia de tales Jefes . Officers .
ARTICLE 10. The Advisers shall ARTICULO 10. Los Asesores be entitled to all benefits and tendrán derecho a todos los bene-

Benefits and privileges.

privileges which the regulations ficios y prerrogativas que pre-

ofthe Argentine Army provide for scriben los reglamentos del Ejér-

Argentine officers and non-com- cito Argentino para los oficiales y missioned officers, except in mat- suboficiales argentinos, salvo en

ters applicable to foreign officers asuntos relacionados con su con-

andnon-commissioned officers (pay dición de oficiales y suboficiales

and allowances, promotions and extranjeros (sueldos y asignacio-

retirement, disciplinary functions, nes, ascensos y retiros , atribucio-

etc.) .

nes disciplinarias, etc.) .

ARTICLE 11. The Advisers , ARTICULO 11. Los Asesores

among themselves and with the entre sí y con el Jefe de los Asesores

Disciplinary regula tions.

Chief Adviser, shall be governed se regirán por el reglamento dis-

by the disciplinary regulations of ciplinario del Ejército de los Esta-

the United States Army.

dos Unidos.

TITLE IV

TITULO IV

Compensation and Perquisites

Remuneración y Obvenciones

ARTICLE 12. The Advisers shall ARTICULO 12. Los Asesores receive from the Government of recibirán del Gobierno de la Re-

the Republic of Argentina such pública Argentina la remuneranet annual compensation in pesos , ción neta anual, en pesos moneda legal Argentine national currency, nacional de curso legal, que se

as may be agreed upon for each establecerá para cada Asesor entre Adviser between the Government el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos
68706-52- PT. III- -14

2812

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Tax exemption.

of the United States of America de América y el Gobierno de la and the Government of the Re- República Argentina.

public of Argentina. This compensation shall be paid

Dicha remuneración se pagará

in twelve (12 ) equal monthly in- en doce mensualidades iguales que stallments, payable within the se harán efectivas dentro de los

first five days of the month follow- cinco primeros días del mes sub-

ing the day it is due.

siguiente al vencido .

Such compensation , and any Esta remuneración y la que

other they may receive from the reciban del Gobierno de los Esta-

Government of the United States dos Unidos, no estarán sujetas a of America, shall not be subject impuesto alguno que al presente o to any tax, now or hereafter in en adelante impongan el Gobiereffect, of the Government of the no de la República Argentina o Republic of Argentina or of any alguna de sus subdivisiones polítiof its political or administrative cas o administrativas . subdivisions or agencies.

At the request of any Adviser, A solicitud de cualquiera de los upon completing his assignment Asesores, al tiempo de terminar

with the mission , the Government sus servicios con la misión , el

of the Republic of Argentina Gobierno de la República Argen-

agrees to exchange for dollars , at tina se compromete a convertirle

the official rate of exchange, up to en dólares, al tipo de cambio 50 % of the total compensation oficial, hasta un 50 % del total de

received from the Government of la remuneración que ha percibido

the Republic of Argentina .

del Gobierno Argentino.

ARTICLE 13. The compensation ARTICULO 13. La remuneración

agreed upon as indicated in the que se convenga , según se indica

preceding Article shall commence en el Artículo precedente , comenupon the date of departure from zará a devengarse desde la fecha

the United States of America of en que cada Asesor parta de los

each Adviser and, except as other- Estados Unidos de América y,

wise expressly provided in this salvo lo que expresamente se dis-

Agreement, shall continue, follow- ponga de otro modo en este Con-

ing the termination of duty, for venio, continuará devengándose

the return trip to the United después de terminadas sus fun-

States of America and thereafter ciones, mientras dure el viaje de

for the period of any accumulated regreso a los Estados Unidos de

leave which may be due.

América y, en adelante, por el

período de licencia acumulada a

que tenga derecho .

ARTICLE 14. The compensation ARTICULO 14. La remuneración

due for the period of the return que debe dársele por el tiempo que trip and accumulated leave shall dure el viaje de regreso y por la be paid to a detached Adviser be- licencia acumulada se pagará al fore his departure from the Re- Asesor que se retire, antes de su public of Argentina , and such partida de la República Argentina, payment shall be computed for y el pago se calculará a base del travel by the shortest usually pasaje por la ruta más corta travelled route, regardless of the seguida generalmente , cualquiera

62 STAT. ] ARGENTINA-MILITARY MISSION- OCT. 6, 1948

2813

route and method of travel used que sea la ruta y el medio de trans-

by the Adviser.

porte de que se sirva el Asesor .

ARTICLE 15. Each Adviser and ARTICULO 15. El Gobierno de la tioTnrsa.vel accommoda-

his family shall be furnished by Argentina proporcionará a cada the Government of the Republic Asesor y a su familia pasajes de

of Argentina with first-class ac- primera clase por la ruta más corta commodations for travel, via the generalmente empleada para el shortest usually travelled route, viaje que se requiera y que se

required and performed under this efectúe de conformidad con este

Agreement, between the port of Convenio, entre el puerto de em-

embarkation in the United States barque en los Estados Unidos de of America and his official resi- América y su residencia oficial en dence in Argentina , both for the la Argentina, tanto para el viaje outward and for the return trip. de ida como para el de regreso . The Government of the Republic El Gobierno de la Argentina tam- hoSldhiepffmeectnst, eotfc.house-

of Argentina shall also pay all ex- bién pagará, además, todos los

penses of shipment of household gastos de embarque de los efectos

effects, baggage, and automobile caseros, equipaje y automóvil de

of each Adviser between the port cada Asesor entre el puerto de emof embarkation in the United barque en los Estados Unidos de States of America and his official América y su residencia oficial en

residence in Argentina as well as la Argentina, así como todos los

all expenses incidental to the gastos incidentales al transporte

transportation of such household de dichos efectos caseros , equipaje effects, baggage, and automobile y automóvil desde la Argentina

from Argentina to the port of entry hasta el puerto de entrada en los in the United States of America . Estados Unidos de América . El

Transportation of such household transporte de dichos efectos ca-

effects , baggage, and automobile seros , equipaje y automóvil se

shall be effected in one shipment, efectuará en un solo embarque, y and all subsequent shipments shall todo embarque subsiguiente será

be at the expense of the respective por cuenta del respectivo Asesor , Adviser, except as otherwise pro- salvo lo que se disponga de otro

vided in this Agreement or when modo en este Convenio , o cuando such shipments are necessitated dichos embarques sean necesarios

by circumstances beyond his por circunstancias ajenas a su

control.

voluntad .

ARTICLE 16. If the services of ARTICULO 16. Si antes de com-

any of the Advisers should be ter- pletarse dos años de servicio se

Termination of serv. ices prior to specified
time, return expenses.

minated for any reason whatsoever terminaren por cualquier razón

before the completion of two years los servicios de algún Asesor , el

of service, the Government of the Gobierno de la República Argen-

Republic of Argentina shall not be tina no estará obligado a cubrir

obligated to pay the cost of the el costo del viaje de regreso a los return to the United States of Estados Unidos de América de

America of such Adviser, his dicho Asesor, su familia, efectos family, household effects, and bag- caseros y equipaje, incluso autogage, including automobile . Nei- móvil. Tampoco estará obligado

ther shall it be obligated to pay a sufragar los gastos de transporte the cost of transporting the re- del que venga a reemplazar al

2814

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

placement for the Adviser whose Asesor cuyos servicios terminan, services are so terminated , his de su familia, efectos caseros y

family, household effects, and bag- equipaje, incluso automóvil.

gage, including automobile .

Exemption from ARTICLE 17. The Government ARTICULO 17. A solicitud de customs duties.

of the Republic of Argentina shall los Asesores, el Gobierno de la

pa

grant, upon request of the Ad- República Argentina eximirá de

visers, exemption from customs derechos de aduana los artículos

duties on articles imported for the que se importen para el uso oficial official use of the Advisers or the de los Asesores, o para el uso per-

personal use of the Advisers and sonal de los Asesores y de los

of members of their families, miembros de su familia, siempre

provided that their request for que la solicitud de entrada libre free entry has received the appro- de derechos haya recibido la aproval of the Ambassador of the bación del Embajador de los United States of America or of the Estados Unidos de América o del

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim .

Encargado de Negocios ad interim.

Travel on official ARTICLE 18. Compensation for ARTICULO 18. De conformidad business .

transportation and travelling ex- con las disposiciones del Artículo

penses in the Republic of Argen- 10, el Gobierno de la República

tina on official business of the Argentina reembolsará los gastos Government of the Republic of de transporte y de viaje efectuados Argentina shall be provided by the en la República Argentina, cuando

Government of the Republic of se trate de asuntos oficiales del

Argentina in accordance with the Gobierno de la República Argen-

Ante, p. 2811.

provisions of Article 10.

tina .

Motor transporta. tion.

ARTICLE 19. The Ministry of ARTICULO 19. El Ministerio de

War of the Republic of Argentina Guerra de la República Argentina (Office of the Commander in Chief (Comando en Jefe del Ejército)

of the Army) shall provide the proveerá un automóvil con chófer Chief Adviser with an automobile al Jefe de los Asesores , para su

with chauffeur for use on official empleo en las funciones del servibusiness ; the rest of the Advisers cio ; al resto de los Asesores se les

Office space, etc.

shall be provided , if possible, with facilitará , en lo posible, un medio

motor transportation for the con- de transporte automotor para

duct of official business .

asuntos del servicio .

ARTICLE 20. The Ministry of ARTICULO 20. El Ministerio de

War of the Republic of Argentina Guerra de la República Argentina (Office of the Commander in Chief (Comando en Jefe del Ejército)

of the Army) shall provide suit- proveerá locales adecuados para able office space and the necessary oficinas, así como los elementos

working materials , for the conduct de trabajo necesarios, para el des-

Death of Adviser or member of his family.

of the official business of the Advisers .
ARTICLE 21. If any of the Ad-

empeño de las funciones oficiales de los Asesores.
ARTICULO 21. Si alguno de los

visers, or any of his family, should Asesores, o algún miembro de su

die in the Republic of Argentina , familia, falleciere en la República the Government of the Republic Argentina, el Gobierno de la of Argentina shall have the body República Argentina hará trasla-

transported to such place in the dar el cuerpo hasta el lugar de

62 STAT. ] ARGENTINA-MILITARY MISSION-OCT. 6, 1948

2815

United States of America as the los Estados Unidos de América

surviving members of the family que indiquen los miembros sobremay decide , but the cost to the vivientes de la familia ; pero el Government of the Republic of costo para el Gobierno de la Argentina shall not exceed the República Argentina no excederá cost of transporting the remains del costo del traslado de los restos from the place of decease to New desde el lugar del fallecimiento York City. Should the deceased hasta la ciudad de Nueva York. be an Adviser, his services with Si el extinto fuera uno de los

the Government of the Republic Asesores se considerarán termiof Argentina shall be considered nados sus servicios con el Gobierno to have terminated fifteen (15 ) de la República Argentina quince

days after his death . Return ( 15 ) días después de su muerte.

transportation to New York City Los gastos de regreso a la ciudad for the family of the deceased de Nueva York de la familia del

Adviser and for their baggage, Asesor fallecido , su equipaje , sus household effects , and automobile efectos caseros y su automóvil se shall be provided as prescribed sufragarán según se prescribe en el in Article 15. All compensation Artículo 15. Toda remuneración due the deceased Adviser, includ- que se adeude al Asesor fallecido , ing salary for fifteen ( 15 ) days incluso su sueldo por los quince subsequent to his death, and (15 ) días siguientes a su muerte, reimbursement for expenses and y el reembolso de gastos de transportation due the deceased transporte que se adeuden al

member for travel performed on miembro fallecido por viajes realiofficial business of the Govern- zados en asuntos oficiales del

ment of the Republic of Argentina, Gobierno de la República Argenshall be paid to the widow of the tina se hará a la viuda del Asesor deceased Adviser or to any other fallecido o a la persona que el

person who may have been desig- extinto hubiere designado por

nated in writing by the deceased escrito mientras prestaba sus serviwhile serving under the terms of cios conforme a los términos de this Agreement ; but such widow este Convenio, pero no se comor other person shall not be com- pensará a la viuda ni a la otra pensated for accrued leave due persona por la licencia acumulada

and not taken by the deceased . a que tuviere derecho el fallecido All compensations due the widow, y que no hubiere disfrutado . Toda or other person designated by the remuneración que de conformidad

deceased, under the provisions of con las disposiciones de este Artí-

this Article, shall be paid within culo se adeude a la viuda o a la

fifteen (15 ) days of the decease otra persona designada por el

of the said Adviser.

extinto , se pagará dentro de quince

( 15 ) días después del fallecimiento de dicho Asesor.

Ante, p. 2813.

TITLE V

TITULO V

Requisites and Conditions

Requisitos y Condiciones

ARTICLE 22. It is established

ARTICULO 22. Se establece y Services ofpersonnel ofother foreign govern-

and agreed that so long as this conviene que durante la vigencia ments, restriction.

Agreement or any extension there- del presente convenio o cualquiera

2816

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

of is in effect, the Ministry of War prórroga del mismo , el Ministerio

of the Republic of Argentina shall de Guerra de la República Argen-

not use the services of any person- tina no podrá utilizar los servicios

nel of any other foreign govern- de personal alguno de otro Go-

ment for the same purposes and bierno extranjero para las mismas

duties as the ones performed by obligaciones y propósitos que se

the Advisers , except when ex- encuentren desempeñando los Ase-

pressly agreed upon by the Gov- sores , fuera del caso en que ello ernment of the United States of sea expresamente convenido por America and the Government of el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos

the Republic of Argentina .

de América y el Gobierno Argen-

Secrecy require . ment.

tino . ARTICLE 23. Each Adviser ARTICULO 23. Cada uno de los

"Family."

shall agree not to divulge or in any Asesores se compromete a no di-

way disclose to any foreign gov- vulgar ni revelar en manera al-

ernment or to any person whatso- guna a ningún gobierno extran-

ever any secret or confidential jero , o a ninguna persona , ningún

matter of which he may become secreto ni asunto confidencial que

cognizant in his capacity as Ad- pueda llegar a su conocimiento en

viser. This requirement shall con- su calidad de Asesor. Esta obli-

tinue in force after the termina- gación continuará en vigor des-

tion of his service and after the pués de terminar sus servicios y

expiration or cancellation of this después del vencimiento o cance-

Agreement or any extension there- lación del presente Convenio o de

of.

su prórroga .

ARTICLE 24. Throughout this ARTICULO 24. En este Convenio

Annual leave.

Agreement the term "family" is se entenderá que el término " fami-

limited to mean wife and depend- lia" sólo comprende a la esposa y

ent children .

a los hijos a quienes se deben

alimentos .

ARTICLE 25. Each Adviser shall ARTICULO 25. Cada uno de los

be entitled to one month's annual Asesores tendrá derecho anual-

leave with pay, or to a propor- mente a un mes de licencia con

tional part thereof with pay for sueldo , o a una parte proporcional

any fractional part of a year. de ella, con sueldo por la respectiva

Unused portions of said leave shall fracción del año . La parte de

be cumulative from year to year dicha licencia que no se use podrá

during service as an Adviser.

acumularse de año en año mientras

duren sus servicios de Asesor.

ARTICLE 26. The leave specified ARTICULO 26. Podrá disfrutarse

in the preceding Article may be de la licencia que se estipula en el spent in the Republic of Argentina, Artículo precedente en la Repúin the United States of America , or blica Argentina, en los Estados in any other countries, but the Unidos de América , o en otros expense of travel and transporta- países ; pero los gastos de viaje y tion not otherwise provided for in transporte que no se fijen de this Agreement shall be borne by ningún otro modo en este Conthe Adviser taking such leave. venio serán sufragados por los All travel time shall count as leave Asesores que tomen la licencia. and shall not be in addition to the Todo el tiempo que dure el viaje

62 STAT. ] ARGENTINA- MILITARY MISSION- OCT. 6, 1948

2817

time authorized in the preceding se contará como parte de la

Article.

licencia y no se añadirá al tiempo

que autoriza el Artículo prece-

dente .

ARTICLE 27. The Ministry of ARTICULO 27. El Ministerio de

War of the Republic of Argentina Guerra de la República Argentina (Office of the Inspector General of (Inspección General de Instrucción Instruction of the Army) agrees del Ejército ) conviene en conceder to grant the leave specified in la licencia estipulada en el ArtíArticle 25, upon receipt of written culo 25 al recibir una solicitud application to that effect, ap- por escrito con ese objeto , aproproved by the Chief Adviser with bada por el Jefe de los Asesores , due consideration for the conven- con la debida consideración la ience of the Government of the conveniencia del Gobierno de la

Republic of Argentina.

República Argentina.

ARTICLE 28. Advisers who may ARTICULO 28. Los Asesores que

be replaced shall terminate their sean reemplazados terminarán sus services only upon the arrival of servicios. solamente al llegar

Termination of services of replaced
Advisers.

their replacements, except when quienes hayan de reemplazarlos ,

otherwise mutually agreed upon salvo cuando los dos Gobiernos

in advance by the respective lo acuerden de antemano de otro

Governments.

modo .

ARTICLE 29. The Ministry of ARTICULO 29. El Ministerio de

Medical attention.

War of the Republic of Argentina Guerra de la República Argentina shall provide suitable medical at- suministrará atención médica a tention to the Advisers and their los Asesores y sus familiares, de families in accordance with the acuerdo con lo que al efecto provisions of the regulations of the prescriben los reglamentos del Argentine Army with respect to Ejército Argentino para sus ofiits officers and non-commissioned ciales y suboficiales . Si alguno officers . If any Adviser, or any de los Asesores o sus familiares of his family, desires medical at- desearan apartarse de lo expuesto tention other than that provided precedentemente podrá hacerlo, for above, he may obtain such pero en tal caso los gastos corresattention, but in this event all pondientes correrán a cargo del expenses incurred shall be borne interesado. by the individual .
ARTICLE 30. Any Adviser unable ARTICULO 30. El Asesor que no

Physical disability.

to perform his duties by reason of pueda desempeñar sus funciones a

long continued physical disability causa de prolongada incapacidad

shall be replaced.

física será reemplazado .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the un- EN FE DE LO CUAL, los infrasdersigned , Robert A. Lovett, Act- critos , Robert A. Lovett, Secreing Secretary of State of the tario de Estado Interino de los United States of America, and Dr. Estados Unidos de América y Dr. Jerónimo Remorino, Ambassador Jerónimo Remorino, Embajador of the Republic of Argentina at de la República Argentina en Washington, duly authorized Washington, debidamente autorithereto, have signed this Agree- zados para ello, han subscrito este ment in duplicate, in the English Convenio en duplicado, en los

2818

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
and Spanish languages, at Wash- idiomas inglés e español , en Wáington, this sixth day of October shington , el día seis de octubre de one thousand nine hundred forty- mil novecientos cuarenta y ocho . eight .
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA : POR EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA :
ROBERT A LOVETT.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA: POR EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA ARGENTINA :
J. REMORINO

62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-WAR DAMAGES- AUG. 27, 1948

2819

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting public and private claims against the United States. Signed at Manila August 27, 1948; entered into force August 27, 1948.

August 27 , 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1814)

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES REGARDING THE PAYMENT OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE CLAIMS .

WHEREAS, the Government of the United States of America has enacted Public Law 370, 79th Congress, approved April 30, 1946,
known as the Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946 , as amended, hereinafter called the "Act", which Act created the Philippine War

p6.01S,tpatp.. 142,81: 2624S. tat.,
50 U. S. C. app. §§ 1751-1806.

Damage Commission, and WHEREAS, Title I of said Act provides for the payment of private
claims for war damage in the Philippines under the terms and conditions of said Title I, and
WHEREAS, Section 304 of said Act provides that
"The Philippine War Damage Commission , within the limits of

60 Stat. 128; 62 Stat., Pt. 1 , p . 4.
50 U. S. C. app. §§ 1751-1763.
60 Stat. 136. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1784.

the appropriations allocated to it for carrying out the provisions

of this section, is authorized to compensate the Commonwealth of

the Philippines ( or the Republic of the Philippines ) , the provincial

governments, chartered cities, municipalities, and corporations

wholly owned by the Commonwealth of the Philippines ( or the

Republic of the Philippines) , in the Philippines, for physical loss

of or damage to public property in the Philippines occurring after

December 7, 1941 (Philippine time ) , and before October 1 , 1945, as a result of the perils listed in section 102 ( a ) hereof, in any case in which compensation for such losses or the rebuilding, repair, or

60 Stat. 129. 50 U. S. C. app
$ 1752.

replacement of the lost or damaged property is not provided for by the transfer of surplus property under section 201 hereof, or provided for under the provisions of this title other than this sec-

60 Stat. 134, 805. 50 U. S. C. app.
1771 .

tion or otherwise provided for by the United States Government

or any department or agency thereof. To the fullest extent practicable, the Commission shall require that any lost or damaged prop-

erty for which it decides to award compensation under this section shall be rebuilt, replaced, or repaired before payments of money are

actually made to claimants under this section. The Commission

in its discretion may request the Federal Works Agency or the Corps of Engineers of the United States Army to undertake, after consultation with the Philippine Government, the rebuilding, repair,

or replacement of property for which the Commission awards compensation under this section, and, from the funds available for

carrying out the provisions of this section, may transfer to such Agency or Corps of Engineers the funds necessary to pay for the

work requested. The Federal Works Agency and the Corps of

2820

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Engineers are authorized to rebuild , repair, or replace property in accordance with any such request of the Commission and to expend the funds so transferred to them for such purpose. The Commission shall have full power to select, and fix the priority of, cases in which compensation will be awarded or property rebuilt, repaired, or replaced under this section , and to determine the amount of such compensation and the extent to which such property will be rebuilt, repaired, or replaced , taking into account the relative importance of various projects to the reconstruction and rehabilita-
tion of the economy of the Philippines and such other factors as the Commission deems relevant";

and

WHEREAS, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines is de-

sirous of availing itself of the benefits and facilities which are author-

St6a0t.,StPatt.. 11,2p8., 41.36; 62 ized by Title I and Section 304 of said Act ;

50 U. S. C. app.

§§ 1751-1763, 1784.

Now, THEREFORE, the Government of the United States of America

and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines have decided to

conclude an agreement for the foregoing purposes and have agreed mutually as follows :

ARTICLE I

The "Commission." The responsible agent of the Government of the United States of

America for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the Philippine War Damage Commission , hereinafter called the "Commission", which may delegate to any duly authorized representative or representatives all or any part of its authority and responsibility for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement.

ARTICLE II

"Secretary."

The responsible agent of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement shall be the Secretary of Public Works and Communications, hereinafter called the "Secretary", who may delegate to any duly authorized representative or representatives all or any part of his authority and responsibility for effectuating the provisions of this Agreement.

ARTICLE III

Priority of public claim .

In carrying out Section 304 of the Act, the Commission shall select,

and fix the priority of, public claim for which compensation will be

awarded or property rebuilt, repaired , or replaced from the list of ap-

forFurnedbusiladiuntgh,orietzce.d, proved public claims submitted by the Secretary. In all cases where restriction .
the Commission authorizes funds for rebuilding, repairing, or replac-

ing public property the funds shall be paid into the Treasury of the

Republic of the Philippines to be kept separate and apart from all

other public funds and used solely for each approved public claim.

The rebuilding, repairing, or replacing of all public property for which

funds have been made available by the Commission shall be the responsibility of the Secretary.

62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-WAR DAMAGES-AUG. 27, 1948

2821

ARTICLE IV

Before undertaking the rebuilding, repairing, or replacing of any Approval of plans.

public building, the Secretary shall submit all plans and specifications

thereof to the Commission for its approval. The Commission shall

have the right to require reports or other data necessary for its purposes, including the right to inspect the work and all books or records

maintained in connection therewith . Where the work is performed

by contract, the Commission shall have the right to disapprove any unsatisfactory bid or contractor. In accordance with existing policies of the Republic of the Philippines, contractors who are citizens of the

Rights of U. S. contractors.

United States of America shall have equal rights with contractors

who are citizens of the Republic of the Philippines on all rehabilita-

tion projects financed by the Commission and no authorized funds

shall be used to pay convict or other forced labor.

Convict or forced labor.

ARTICLE V

Before undertaking any work for which funds have been author-

ized by the Commission , the Secretary shall assure himself that all the conditions of Section 304 of the Act have been met and that funds

60 Stat. 136. 50 U. S. C. app.

authorized by the Commission are sufficient to complete the work for $ 1784. Excess funds.
which funds are authorized, or a useful unit thereof. After a project

is initiated, if such funds are found to be in excess of the requirements , such excess shall be returned to the Commission, and if the funds are found to be insufficient the Government of the Republic of the Philip-

Insufficient funds.

pines shall complete the work, or a useful unit thereof, from its own

funds. The Commission shall not be obligated to advance funds except as the work progresses and the Commission is satisfied that all

the terms ofthis Agreement are being met.

ARTICLE VI

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall provide

all lands, easements , and rights-of-way necessary for the execution

of the public projects under the program set forth in Section 304 of the Act. No funds shall be used for the purchase of materials, equipment, or supplies which have been made available or shall be made available from surplus property provided for by Title II of the Act.
ARTICLE VII

Purchase of surplus property, restriction.
60 Stat. 134. 50 U. S. C. app. §§ 1771-1776.

The United States of America or the Commission shall have the

Recovery of funds, etc.

right to undertake legal action in the Philippines to recover funds

which the Commission is obligated to recover under the provisions set forth in Sections 107 and 108 of the Act, or other claims where the Commission is entitled to recover funds from private individuals

60 Stat. 132. 50 U. S. C. §§ 1757,
1758.

or legal entities in the Philippines and no court costs or other charges shall be made in connection with such action.

ARTICLE VIII
The Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall cooperate with the Commission in providing necessary office space and facilities,

Office space, etc.

2822

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

and adequate housing accommodations for its United States citizen personnel and their families at reasonable rates.

ARTICLE IX

Damage suits, etc.

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall save harmless all officers and employees of the Commission from damage suits or other civil actions arising out of the performance of their duties under this Agreement.

ARTICLE X

Free transit for U.S. personnel.

Officers, employees, and agents of the Government of the United

States of America who are citizens of the United States and who are

on duty or who may be assigned to duty in the Republic of the Phil-

ippines under the provisions of the present Agreement, and their fami-

lies, shall be permitted to move freely into and out of the Republic of

the Philippines , subject to existing visa and passport regulations. Gratis transit shall be extended to all officers, employees or agents of

the Commission over all bridges , ferries, roads, and other facilities

of the highways where tolls are collected for passage of vehicles or occupants .

ARTICLE XI

Tax exemption.

Pending the conclusion of negotiations now being considered by the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines, no

import , excise, consumption, or other tax, duty, or impost shall be levied on funds or property in the Republic of the Philippines owned by the Commission and used for the purposes of the present Agreement ; or on funds, materials, supplies, and equipment imported into the Republic of the Philippines for use in connection with such purposes ; nor shall any such tax , duty, or impost be levied on personal funds or property, not intended for resale, imported into the Republic of the Philippines for the use or consumption of Commission personnel who are United States citizens ; nor shall any export or other
tax be placed on any such funds or property, including United States Government property, in the event of its removal from the Republic of the Philippines.
ARTICLE XII

All commitments made in this Agreement on the part of the Government of the United States of America shall be subject to the availability of appropriated funds made by the Government of the United States of America.
ARTICLE XIII

Effective date, dura- This Agreement shall become effective on the date of its signature tion, etc.
and continue in effect until June 30, 1950, for the purposes enu-

merated in Section 304 of the Act and until April 30, 1951, for the

St6a0t.S, tPatt.. 11,3p6,. 41.28; 62 §§510784U,.17S5.1-1C7.63.app.
Termination .

purposes of Title I of the Act. This Agreement may be extended , revised , amended , or changed in whole or in part with the approval of both parties as indicated and effected by an exchange of notes. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving to the other

party ninety days' notice in writing through diplomatic channels.

62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES- WAR DAMAGES- AUG. 27, 1948
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Agreement in duplicate at Manila, this 27th day of August, 1948. FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:

2823

THOMAS H. LOCKETT Charge d'Affaires ad interim of the
United States of America at Manila .
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES :
Plex  RICARDO NEPOMUCENO
Secretary of Public Works and Communications .

2824

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

December 11 , 1947, March3 , 8, 10, 12, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1815]

Agreement between the United States of America and Paraguay respecting a cooperative educational program in Paraguay. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Asunción December 11 , 1947 , and March 3, 1948; entered into force March 3, 1948. And agreement between Paraguay and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. Signed at Asunción March 8, 1948; approved by exchange of notes signed at Asunción March 10 and 12 , 1948; entered into force March 12, 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship

Additional funds.

EMBASSY OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 7 EXCELLENCY :

Asunción, December 11 , 1947

I have the honor to refer to the agreement dated March 17 , 1945 , [']

entered into between the Republic of Paraguay and the InterAmerican Educational Foundation , Inc. , concerning the establishment of a cooperative education program in Paraguay. It will be recalled that my Government agreed to send a small staff of experts and

technicians to Paraguay to cooperate with officials of the Paraguayan Government and, particularly, with the Minister of Public Education , in a specific program for the improvement of public education in Paraguay as set forth in the Agreement to which reference has been

made . That program included , among other things, the establishment within the Ministry of Public Education of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación , through which the cooperative program has been administered .

In accordance with recent legislation passed by the Congress of the United States of America, all of the property, assets, functions , per-

sonnel , liabilities and restrictions of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , have been transferred to and assumed by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate instrumentality of the

United States created by such legislative action .

I now have been informed by the Department of State in Washing-

ton that additional funds amounting to $22,000 U. S. Cy. have been

made available by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs for the

continuation of the joint education program in Paraguay to be

expended over a period to be mutually agreed upon by the appropriate

officials of the Paraguayan Government and a representative of The

Institute of Inter-American Affairs . It has been suggested that the

extension of the program cover the period from the expiration date of

the present agreement, which is March 16 , 1948 , through June 30 ,

1948. It is proposed that the entire additional contribution of

1 Not printed.

Dec. 11 , 1947 62 STAT. ] PARAGUAY- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-
Mar. 3, 8, 10, 12, 1948
$22,000 U. S. Cy. to be made available by the Institute in connection with the continuation of the program shall be retained by the Institute for payment directly or on account of salaries and other expenses of members ofthe Institute field staff who are maintained by the Institute in Paraguay. It is also understood that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for expenditure by that entity not less than the equivalent in Guarani of $22,000 U. S. Cy ., computed at the best rate of exchange which the Bank of Paraguay concedes , which amount would be in addition to amounts already required under the present agreement to be contributed to the program by your Government .
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed agreement , as outlined above, is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the program may be worked out by the Ministry of Education and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
FLETCHER WARREN His Excellency
Doctor CESAR A. VASCONSELLOS ,
Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship, Asunción .

The Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

D. P. y D.N° 287.-
SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

ASUNCIÓN, 3 de marzo de 1948.-

Tengo el agrado de dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia , haciendo referencia a su nota nº 7 de fecha 11 de diciembre de 1947 , sobre estable-

cimiento de un programa cooperativo de educación en el Paraguay.-

En contestación , cábeme expresar a Vuestra Excelencia , que el Ministerio de Educación se ha dirigido a esta Cancillería , aceptando

el acuerdo proyectado en la nota de referencia.-

Aprovecho la oportunidad para saludar a Vuestra Excelencia con mi consideración distinguida.-

A Su Excelencia

CÉSAR A VASCONSELLOS

El Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América , Hon . FLETCHER WARREN Presente.-

2825

2826

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP

D. P. y D. N 287.

ASUNCIÓN, March 3, 1948.-

MR . AMBASSADOR : I have the honor to address Your Excellency with reference to your
note No. 7 of December 11 , 1947 , on the establishment of a cooperative program of education in Paraguay.
In reply, I am to inform Your Excellency that the Ministry of Education has been in communication with this Ministry , and has accepted the agreement outlined in the note in reference .
I avail myself of this opportunity to present to Your Excellency the assurances of my distinguished consideration .
CESAR A VASCONSELLOS His Excellency
FLETCHER WARREN Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Asunción .

Dec. 11, 1947 62 STAT.] PARAGUAY- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Mar. 3, 8, 10, 12, 1948
EXTENSION AGREEMENT

2827

The Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter referred to as the " Republic") represented by the Minister of Education (hereinafter referred to as the " Minister") of the Republic and the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the " Institute" ) , a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America and successor to the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the "Foundation " ) , represented by its Special Representative , Education Division, Mr. Frank E. Gilpin (hereinafter referred to as the " Special Representative " ) , have agreed to extend and modify, in the manner hereinafter set forth, the agreement executed by the Republic and the Foundation on March 17, 1945 , providing for a cooperative education program in Paraguay (which agreement as approved by Decree Law No. 8,635 , of May 10 , 1945, is hereinafter referred to as the " Basic Agreement") .

CLAUSE I
The cooperative education program in Paraguay hereby is extended for an additional period of approximately three and one-half months from the seventeenth day of March, 1948 through the thirtieth day of June, 1948.
CLAUSE II
The objective of the cooperative education program in Paraguay shall continue to be, primarily, to assist in the development of vocational education within Paraguay, and to train personnel and to develop or acquire materials for that purpose and, secondarily, to develop such other projects in the field of education as may be of mutual interest to the Minister and the Special Representative of the Institute. The cooperative educational program is expected to continue to include :

Extension period. Program objectives.

(a) Furnishing by the Institute of a small field staff of educational specialists for service in Paraguay in carrying out the cooperative educational program and to interchange ideas and experience with Paraguayan educators ;
(b) Grants to permit Paraguayan educators to go to the United States of America for specialized training, to lecture, to teach and to interchange ideas and experience with United States educators ;
(c) Exploration and survey in Paraguay of local educational needs and resources for carrying out training projects ;
(d) Development, adaptation, and exchange of suitable teaching materials.

CLAUSE III
The Republic recognizes the Institute as a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America and that the field staff in Paraguay constitutes a division or office of the Institute. The field staff of the Institute shall continue to be under the direction of an official of the Institute who shall have the title of " Special

Field staff.

2828

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Representative, Education Division, The Institute of Inter-American Affairs" who shall be the representative of the Institute in connection with the program to be carried out in accordance with this Extension Agreement. The Special Representative and other members of the field staff of the Institute shall be acceptable to the Minister.

Servicio . Director. Projects.

CLAUSE IV
The special technical service created in the Ministry of Education of the Republic , pursuant to the Basic Agreement, under the name of "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educacion" (hereinafter called the " Servicio" ) shall continue to act as an intermediary between the Government of Paraguay and the Institute, and shall continue to carry out the cooperative education program. The Special Representative of the Institute shall continue to be the Director of the Servicio .
CLAUSE V
The cooperative education program shall continue to consist of individual projects. The kind of work and the specific projects to be undertaken in the execution of this Extension Agreement and the allocation of funds therefor shall be agreed upon in writing by the Minister and the Special Representative , and shall be carried out by the Director of the Servicio in conformity with policies prescribed jointly by the Minister and the Special Representative . The Paraguayan educators to be sent to the United States and the terms of their scholarships or grants shall be mutually agreed upon in writing by the Minister and the Special Representative.

CLAUSE VI

Payment of salaries and other expenses of

The Institute shall determine and pay the salaries and other ex-

field staff.

penses payable directly to or on account of members of the Institute

field staff, as well as such other expenses of any administrative nature as the Institute may incur in connection with the development of the program , in an amount not to exceed Twenty-Two Thousand Dollars ($22,000) U.S. Cy which shall be in addition to the One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($ 100,000) U.S. Cy allocated for such purpose in Paragraph (a) of Clause VII of the Basic Agreement and the additional Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000 ) U.S. Cy not required by the Basic Agreement but made available, nevertheless , by the Foundation on May 17 , 1946 , for such salaries and other expenses .

Deposits .

The said additional Twenty-Two Thousand Dollars ($22,000) U.S. Cy shall be retained in the United States by the Institute, making a total of One Hundred Forty-two Thousand Dollars ($ 142,000 ) U.S. Cy which has been allocated by the Foundation and the Institute for such purposes and shall be in addition to the Seventy Thousand Dollars ($70,000) U.S. Cy which the Foundation agreed to deposit to the account of the Servicio pursuant to paragraph (b) of said Clause VII of the Basic Agreement , making a total aggregate amount of Two Hundred Twelve Thousand Dollars ($ 212,000) U.S. Cy allocated by the Foundation and the Institute for the cooperative education program in Paraguay.

62 STAT. ] PARAGUAY- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Dec. 11, 1947 Mar. 3, 8, 10, 12, 1948

2829

The Republic shall deposit in a special bank account, in a Paraguayan bank mutually agreed upon by the Minister and the Special

Representative of the Institute, to the account of the Servicio, the

equivalent in Guaranies of the sum of Twenty-two Thousand Dollars

($22,000) U.S. Cy converted at the best rate of exchange which the

Bank of Paraguay concedes. The deposit required to be made by

the Republic hereby shall be deposited during the month of March

1948, and the said deposit shall be in addition to the Republic's regu-

lar budget for education and in addition to the total amount specified in Clause VIII of the Basic Agreement to be deposited by the Republic to the account of the Servicio.
The deposits required by the Basic Agreement and by the preceding

daMteosdioffpiacyamteinotns. of

paragraph of this Extension Agreement to be made by the parties to such agreements shall be made as specified therein, provided that the dates of such payments may be accelerated or otherwise modified at

any time by mutual written agreement of the Minister and the Special Representative. In the event, however, that any of the payments required to be made under the terms of the Basic Agreement or this

Unmatched pay. ments .

Extension Agreement are made by either party and not matched by the other party within thirty (30) days of the corresponding due date of the payment required to be made by the other party the funds so deposited shall be forthwith returned to the contributor.

CLAUSE VII

All of the funds introduced into Paraguay by the Institute or the

Exemption offunds from taxes, etc.

Foundation for the purpose of the cooperative education program shall

be exempt from taxes , service charges , investment or deposit requirements and other currency controls and shall be converted into Guaranies at the best rate of exchange which the Bank of Paraguay con-

Conversion of currency.

cedes. Similarly where it is necessary to convert Guaranies into

Dollars in connection with the cooperative education program in

Paraguay including, but not limited to, the financing of grants or

other expenditures in the United States of America, the Guaranies

shall be converted into Dollars at the best rate of exchange which

the Bank of Paraguay concedes and shall be exempt from Paraguayan

taxes, service charges, investment or deposit requirements, and other currency controls.
CLAUSE VIII

Any funds heretofore withheld by the Foundation pursuant to f Deposit of withheld unds. agreements between the Minister and the Special Representative of the Foundation for the purchase of materials and supplies and other disbursements in the United States of America relating to the execu-
tion of the cooperative educational program in Paraguay and not expended or obligated therefor shall be deposited in the Servicio
bank account at any time upon the mutual agreement of the Minister and the Special Representative.

CLAUSE IX
All contracts necessary to carry out the terms of the projects p General policies and rocedures. mutually agreed to as herein provided shall be made in the name of

2830

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

the Servicio and shall be signed by the Minister and the Director of the Servicio . Personnel to be paid out of program funds deposited

in Paraguay to the account of the Servicio shall be selected by the Director of the Servicio subject to the approval of the Minister.

The general policies and procedures for the execution of the Program and for the disbursement and accounting of funds , for the purchase ,

use, inventory, control and disposition of property and any other administrative matters , shall be determined or established by mutual

agreement between the Minister and the Special Representative. Disbursements from the Servicio bank account shall be made by the

Director of the Servicio , or his delegate but , if desired by the Minister , such disbursements shall also bear the countersignature of the Min-

ister or his delegate . The books and records of the Servicio relating

to the said cooperative educational program in Paraguay shall be open at all times for inspection by the representatives of the Republic and of the Institute , and the Director of the Servicio shall render

financial reports to the Republic and to the Institute at such intervals

as may be agreed upon between the Minister and the Special

Representative.

CLAUSE X

Additional assist-

ance .

The Institute shall continue to use its best efforts to obtain such

assistance and cooperation of other agencies, both public and private,

in the United States of America, as may be appropriate for the execu-

tion of the said cooperative education program in Paraguay. The

Republic in addition to its cash contribution as provided herein , shall (a) appoint specialists , in agreement with the Director of the Servicio ,

to collaborate with the field staff of the Institute ; (b) make available

office space, furnishings and such other facilities, materials, equipment and supplies as it may conveniently provide for the said program,

and (c) lend the general assistance thereto of the other Departments

of the Republic .

CLAUSE XI

Availability of

funds.

The funds payable by the Institute under the Basic Agreement or

this Extension Agreement , or paid by the parties hereto into the said

Servicio bank account, shall continue to be available for the said

cooperative education program during the existence of this Extension

Interest on funds.

Agreement , without regard to annual periods or fiscal years of wither of the parties.
Interest, if any, on funds of the Servicio , and income , if any upon investments of the Servicio , and any increment of assets of the Servicio of whatever nature or source shall be added to the resources of the

Servicio and shall not be credited against the contributions of the
Republic, the Foundation or the Institute. Unobligated funds.
The Minister and the Special Representative shall determine by
mutual agreement the disposition of any unobligated funds and of
any other personal property remaining in the control of the Servicio

upon the termination of this Extension Agreement.

Dec. 11, 1947 62 STAT. ] PARAGUAY- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- Mar. 3, 8, 10, 12, 1948

2831

CLAUSE XII
In the event that the Institute deems that the funds or any portion thereof which it has set aside for the payment of salaries or other expenses directly payable to , or on account of, members of the field staff, as provided in Clause VI hereof, will be more than is needed for that purpose, or for any other purpose of the Institute, the Institute will thereupon advise the Republic of the surplus which it can accordingly make available for projects under the program and such additional sum shall be paid into the Servicio bank account or be otherwise disposed of pursuant to this Agreement.

Surplus funds. Ante, p . 2828.

CLAUSE XIII
Exemption of U. S. All employees of the Institute who are citizens of the United States employees from douof America and are engaged in carrying out the objectives of the ble taxation, customs
cooperative education program shall be exempt in Paraguay from all income taxes and social security taxes with respect to income on which they are obligated to pay income or social security taxes to the Government of the United States of America and from property taxes on personal property intended for their own use . Such employees and members of their families who reside with them in Paraguay shall be exempt, also, from payment of custom, port charges, or other duties on their personal effects and equipment, and supplies imported or exported for their own use and from investment and deposit requirements and from costs of foreign exchange conversions on funds brought into Paraguay for their normal living expenses .

CLAUSE XIV Rights and privi-
All rights and privileges which are enjoyed by governmental and leges. official divisions or agencies of the Republic shall accrue to the Servicio. Such rights and privileges shall include, for example only, and not exclusively, free postal , telegraph and telephone service, special government rates made by transportation companies and, also freedom and immunity from excise, stamp, property income and all other taxes, as well as from consular charges and customs duties. and port charges upon imports for the use of the Servicio in the cooperative education program. The Institute shall enjoy the same rights and exemptions with respect to its acts and property relating to the cooperative education program .

CLAUSE XV
Ownership of equipAll materials, equipment and supplies purchased with funds of the ment. Servicio shall become and remain the property of the Republic and shall be devoted solely to the cooperative education program in Paraguay.
CLAUSE XVI Delegation ofpower,
Any rights, powers or duties conferred by this Extension Agreement et upon either the Minister, the Special Representative , or the Director of the Servicio , may be delegated by the recipient thereof to representatives in writing, provided that such representatives are satisfactory

2832

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

to the other parties . Regardless of the naming of said representatives , the Minister and the Special Representative shall have the right to refer any matter directly to one another for discussion and decision.

CLAUSE XVII

Enabling legisla-

tion.

The Executive Power of the Republic will take the necessary steps

to obtain the legislation , decrees, orders or resolutions necessary to

carry out the terms of this Extension Agreement.

Effective date.

CLAUSE XVIII
This Extension Agreement supersedes the Basic Agreement in all respects whatsoever and shall become effective ['] as soon as diplomatic notes confirming and accepting this Extension Agreement have been exchanged between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of Paraguay and the Embassy of the United States of America to Paraguay.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives, in duplicate, in the English and Spanish languages, in the city of Asuncion, Paraguay , on this 8th day of March 1948.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY

FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS.

laur
Dr. Mario Ferrario MINISTER OF EDUCATION

Frank &.Tikin
Frank E. Gapin SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE

¹ Mar. 12, 1948, see post, p. 2839.

62 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-

Dec. 11, 1947

Mar. 3, 8, 10, 12, 1948

PROLONGACION DE CONVENIO

LA REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY (en adelante denominada la "República" ), representada por el Ministro de Educación (en adelante denominado el "Ministro " ) de la República y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos (en adelante denominado el "Instituto") una agencia incorporada al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica, sucesora de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana (Inter-American Educational Foundation Inc., ) , (en adelante denominada la "Fundación" ), representada por su Representante Especial, División de Educación, Sr. Frank Gilpin (en adelante denominado el "Representante Especial" ) han convenido en prolongar y modificar en la forma que aquí se especifica, el convenio celebrado entre la República y la Fundación en fecha 17 de Marzo de 1945 , que provee un programa cooperativo de educación en el Paraguay (cuyo convenio , aprobado por Decreto-Ley N° 8635 de fecha 10 de Mayo de 1945, es citado más adelante como el "Convenio Básico" ) .
CLAUSULA I

El programa cooperativo educacional en el Paraguay se prolonga, por el presente convenio, por un período adicional aproximado de tres y medio meses a partir del día 17 de Marzo de 1948 hasta el 30 de Junio de 1948.
CLAUSULA II

Los fines del programa cooperativo de educación en el Paraguay continuarán siendo, principalmente, los de ayudar en el desarrollo de la educación vocacional en el Paraguay, de adiestrar personal y de producir o adquirir materiales para esos propósitos, y en segundo término facilitar el desenvolvimiento de otros proyectos en el campo
de educación que puedan ser de mútuo interés para el Ministro y para el Representante Especial del Instituto . Se anticipa que el programa cooperativo de educación podrá continuar incluyendo lo siguiente :
a) El Instituto deberá suministrar un pequeño cuerpo de especialistas en educación para trabajar en el Paraguay en la realización del programa cooperativo educacional y cambiar ideas y experiencias con los educacionistas paraguayos ;
b) Dará subvenciones que permitan a los educacionistas paraguayos trasladarse a los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica para adquirir un entrenamiento especializado ; dar conferencias, enseñar y cambiar ideas y experiencias con los educacionistas de los Estados Unidos ;
c) Explorará y estudiará los problemas educacionales y los recursos que posee el Paraguay para realizar los proyectos de entrenamiento ;
d) Desarrollará, adaptará y facilitará el intercambio de materiales de enseñanza adecuados .
CLAUSULA III
La República reconoce al Instituto como una agencia incorporada al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica y que el personal

2833

2834

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
asignado por el mismo al Paraguay, constituye una división u oficina del Instituto . El personal del Instituto continuará actuando bajo la dirección de un funcionario del Instituto , quien tendrá el cargo de "Representante Especial, Division de Educación , Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos" y quien representará al Instituto en todo lo relativo al programa a desarrollarse de acuerdo con esta Prolongación del Convenio . El Representante Especial, así como también otros miembros del personal asignado al Paraguay por el Instituto , deberán ser aceptados por el Ministro .
CLAUSULA IV
El Servicio tecnico especial creado en el Ministerio de Educación de la República, en cumplimiento del Convenio Básico, denomiado "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación" (en adelante denominado el "Servicio" ) continuará actuando como intermediario entre el Gobierno del Paraguay y el Instituto y proseguirá con el desarrollo del programa cooperativo de educación . El Representante Especial del Instituto continuará siendo Director del Servicio .
CLAUSULA V
El programa cooperativo de educación continuará consistiendo en proyectos individuales. La clase de actividades y los proyectos específicos a efectuarse en la ejecución de esta Prolongación de Convenio y la asignación de los fondos para los mismos serán convenidos por escrito entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial y serán ejecutados por el Director del Servicio , de conformidad con las normas y procedimientos establecidos conjuntamente por el Ministro y el Representante Especial . Los educacionistas paraguayos a enviarse a los Estados Unidos , así como las condiciones de sus subvenciones de entrenamiento , serán mutuamente convenidos por escrito entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial .
CLAUSULA VI
El Instituto determinará y abonará los sueldos y otros gastos abonables directamente a los miembros del Cuerpo de Especialistas del Instituto y también cualesquiera otros gastos administrativos en que incurra el Instituto y que tengan relación con el desarrollo del programa, cuyo monto no excederá de veinte y dos mil dólares. (US$22,000.00) y que constituye una suma adicional a los cien mil dólares (US$ 100,000.00) asignada para tal propósito en el Párrafo (a) de la Cláusula VII del Convenio Básico y a la cantidad adicional de veinte mil dólares (US$20,000.00 ) no estipulada en el Convenio Básico, pero que no obstante la Fundación en fecha 17 de Mayo de 1946 hizo disponible para el pago de tales salarios y otros gastos.
La citada cantidad adicional de veinte y dos mil dólares (US $22,000.00) será retenida en los Estados Unidos por el Instituto , formando un total de ciento cuarenta y dos mil dólares (US$ 142,000.00) asignado por la Fundación y el Instituto para tales propósitos y que constituirá una suma adicional a los setenta mil dólares (US $ 70,000.00 ) que la Fundación convino en depositar en la cuenta del Servicio en cumplimiento del párrafo (b) de la mencionada Cláusula VII del Convenio

Dec. 11, 1947 62 STAT. ] PARAGUAY- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-
Mar. 3, 8, 10, 12, 1948
Básico, formando en conjunto un total de doscientos doce mil dólares (US$212,000.00 ) asignada por la Fundación y el Instituto para el programa cooperativo de educación en el Paraguay.
La República depositará en una cuenta bancaria especial, en un banco paraguayo convenido mutuamente entre el Mijistro y el Representante Especial del Instituto , para la cuenta del Servicio , el equivalente en guaraníes de la suma de veinte y dos mil dólares (US$22,000.00 ) cuya conversión se hará al mejor tipo de cambio que el Banco del Paraguay conceda . El depósito que de acuerdo a la presente deberá efectuar la República , será hecho durante el mes de Marzo de 1948 y será adicional al presupuesto corriente de la República para educación , y adicional también a la cantidad especificada en la Cláusula VIII del Convenio Básico a depositarse por la República en la cuenta del Servicio .
Los depósitos requeridos por el Convenio Básico y por el párrafo precedente de esta Prolongación de Convenio y que deberán ser efectuados por las partes integrantes de dichos convenios, serán efectuados de acuerdo a las especificaciones contenidas en los mismos, a menos que tales pagos sean adelantados o en forma alguna modificados en cualquier momento mediante convenio por escrito entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial . En el caso, no obstante, de que cualquiera de los pagos requeridos de acuerdo a los términos del Convenio Básico o de la presente Prolongación de Convenio fuere hecho por una de las partes y no depositado por la otra dentro de los (30) días de la fecha fijada para el pago requerido por la otra parte, los fondos así depositados, serán inmediatamente devueltos al contribuyente.
CLAUSULA VII
Todos los fondos a ser introducidos en el Paraguay ya sea por el Instituto o la Fundación para los fines del programa cooperativo de educación estarán exentos de tasas, recargos por servicio , exigencias de inversión o depósito y otros controles de cambio y serán convertidos en guaraniés al mejor tipo de cambio que el Banco del Paraguay conceda. En igual forma, cuando sea necesario convertir Guaraníes a Dólares por motivos relacionados al programa cooperativo de educación en el Paraguay incluyendo, pero no exclusivamente, la financiación de becas y otros gastos en los Estados Unidos de América, el Guaraní será convertido en Dólares al mejor tipo de cambio que el Banco del Paraguay conceda por Dólar y estará exento de impuestos paraguayos, recargos por servicios, requerimientos de inversión o depósito y otros controles de cambio.
CLAUSULA VIII
Cualiesquier fondos ya retenidos por la Fundación de acuerdo al convenio entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial de la Fundación para la compra de materiales y suministros y otros gastos en los Estados Unidos de América relacionados con la ejecución del programa cooperativo de educación en el Paraguay y que no hayan sido erogados u obligados para ello, serán depositados en la cuenta bancaria del
68706-52- PT. III~ -15

2835

2836

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Servicio en cualquier momento mediante acuerdo mútuo entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial.

CLAUSULA IX

Todos los contratos necesarios para llevar a cabo los proyectos.

mutuamente acordados , de conformidad con este convenio serán celebrados a nombre del Servicio y serán firmados por el Ministro y el Director del Servicio . El personal cuyos sueldos deban abonarse de los fondos del programa depositados en el Paraguay para la cuenta del Servicio , será seleccionado por el Director del Servicio , sujeto a la aprobación del Ministro. Las normas generales y procedimientos para la ejecución del programa y para el desembolso y contabilidad

de los fondos ; para la compra, uno , inventario, control y disposición de bienes y cualesquiera otros asuntos administrativos , serán determinados o establecidos por mútuo acuerdo entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial . No se hará ningún desembolso de la susodicha cuenta de banco del Servicio sin la autorización firmada del Director

del Servicio o de su delegado , pero si el Ministro lo desea , tales desembolsos llevarán también su firma o la de su delegado . Los libros y los informes del Servicio relacionados con el programa cooperativo de

educación estarán en todo tiempo disponibles para inspección por representantes de la República y del Instituto, y el Director del

Servicio rendirá informes financieros a la República y al Instituto en los intérvalos que sean acordados entre el Ministro y el Representante

Especial .

CLAUSULA X

El Instituto continuará haciendo uso de sus mejores esfuerzos a fin

de lograr la ayuda y cooperación necesaria de otras agencias , tanto

públicas como privadas, en los Estados Unidos de América , para la

debida ejecución del citado programa cooperativo de educación en el

Paraguay. La República , además de su contribución en efectivo aquí

estipulado , (a) Nombrará, de acuerdo con el Director del Servicio ,

especialistas para colaborar con el Cuerpo de Especislistas del Insti-

tuto ; (b) Suministrará locales para oficinas, así como también muebles

y cualesquiera otras facilidades , materiales, equipos y suministros que

pueda convenientemente aportar para tal programa , y (c) en general,

prestará al programa la ayuda de las demás dependencias de la

República .

CLAUSULA XI

Los fondos abonables por el Instituto de acuerdo al Convenio Básico o a la presente Prolongación de Convenio, o depositados por las partes que integran la presente a la citada cuenta bancaria del Servicio , continuarán siendo disponibles al mencionado programa cooperativo de educación durante la vigencia de esta Prolongación de Convenio, sin tomar en consideración un período determinado o años fiscales de cualesquiera de las partes.
Si hubiere intereses sobre los fondos del Servicio o ingresos sobre las inversiones del Servicio o algún aumento del capital del mismo, de cualquier naturaleza u origen, serán agregados a los fondos del Servicio y no cargados a las cuotas de la República ni del Instituto .

Dec. 11, 1947 62 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-
Mar. 3, 8, 10, 12, 1948
El Ministro y el Representante Especial determinarán , por acuerdo mútuo, la disposición de todo fondo no obligado o cualquier propiedad personal que permanezca bajo el control del Servicio, una vez terminada esta Prolongación de Convenio .
CLAUSULA XII
En caso de que el Instituto considere que los fondos o cualquier parte de ellos por él apartados para el pago de sueldos u otros gastos abonables a, o por cuenta de miembros del personal del Instituto en el Paraguay, de acuerdo a las provisiones de la Cláusula VI de este convenio, excedan a las necesidades para ese propósito o para cualquier otro propósito del Instituto , éste avisará entonces a la República del sobrante, el cual podrá transferirse para ser invertido en proyectos, debiendo ser depositados en la cuenta bancaria del Servicio o dispuestos de otra manera, de conformidad con este convenio .
CLAUSULA XIII
El personal del Instituto de nacionalidad norteamericana, encargado de llevar a cabo el mencionado programa cooperativo de educación, estará exento en el Paraguay del pago de todo impuesto a la renta y descuentos destinados al seguro social sobre los cuales ellos están obligados a pagar impuestos al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos y de impuestos a la propiedad sobre propiedad personal de su uso particular. Tales funcionarios estarán asimismo exentos del pago de derechos aduaneros, tasas portuarias y otros impuestos sobre sus efectos personales y sobre equipos y suministros importados o exportados para su propio uso y para los miembros de su familia residentes en el Paraguay, así como también exentos del pago de tasas sobre inversión y/o depósitos y del costo de conversión sobre moneda extranjera sobre fondos traídos al Paraguay para sus gastos normales de vida.
CLAUSULA XIV
El Servicio disfrutará de todos los derechos y privilegios de que gozan las dependencias y entidades gubernamentales y oficiales de la República. Tales derechos y privilegios incluirán, por ejemplo, unicamente y no en forma exclusiva , franquicia postal , telegráfica y telefónica, tarifas gubernamentales especiales en compañías de transporte y también exención e inmunidad de toda clase de impuestos al consumo, sellos , propiedad, renta y cualquiera otra tasa , así como de derechos consulares, impuestos aduaneros y tasas portuarias sobre importaciones destinadas al uso del Servicio en el programa cooperativo de educación . El Instituto gozará de los mismos derechos y exenciones con respecto a sus actos y bienes relacionados con el programa cooperativo.
CLAUSULA XV
Todos los materiales, equipos y suministros adquiridos por el Servicio pasarán a ser propiedad de la República y serán destinados exclusivamente al programa cooperativo de educación en el Paraguay.

2837

2838

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

CLAUSULA XVI
Todo derecho, poder u obligación conferido por medio de esta Prolongación de Convenio al Ministro, Representante Especial o al Director del Servicio podrá ser delegado por los mismos a representantes, siempre y cuando tales representantes sean aceptables a las otras partes . No obstante el nombramiento de tales representantes , el Ministro y el Representante Especial podrán tratar y resolver entre ellos directamente, cualquier asunto.

CLAUSULA XVII

El Poder Ejecutivo de la República tomará las medidas necesarias para la obtención de las leyes , decretos , disposiciones o resoluciones renecesarias para el cumplimiento de las estipulaciones de la presente Prolongación de Convenio .

CLAUSULA XVIII

La presente Prolongación de Convenio sustituye al Convenio. Básico en todas sus partes y entrará en vigencia tan pronto como se hayan cambiado las notas diplomáticas de confirmación y aceptación entre el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto del Paraguay y la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica en el Paraguay .
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes contratantes han celebrado , por duplicado, esta Prolongación de Convenio, en inglés y castellano , por medio de sus representantes debidamente autorizados en la ciudad de Asuncion, el día 8 del mes de marzo de 1948.

POR LA REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY

POR EL INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTERAMERICANOS .

int erians
Dr. Mario Ferrario MINISTRO DE EDUCACION

Frank & Wilkin
Frank E. Gilpin REPRESENTANTE ESPECIAL

62 STAT. ]

PARAGUAY- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-

Dec. 11, 1947 Mar. 3, 8, 10, 12, 1948

2839

The American Ambassador to the Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 26

Asunción, March 10, 1948.

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note no. 287 dated
March 3 , 1948 , in which Your Excellency informs me that the Ministry of Education accepted the agreement presented in this Embassy's note no . 7 of December 11 , 1947 , covering the establishment of a cooperative program of education in Paraguay.
The extension agreement referred to above was signed on March 8, 1948, by the Minister of Education and the Special Representative for the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, Education Division ,

authorizing the extension of the cooperative education program in Paraguay from March 17, 1948 through June 30 , 1948 .
Article XVIII of this instrument provides that it shall become effective as soon as diplomatic notes confirming and accepting this extension agreement have been exchanged between the Ministry of Foreign Relations and Worship of the Government of Paraguay and the Embassy of the United States of America in Paraguay. This Embassy, therefore, hereby confirms and accepts this extension agreement and respectfully requests that Your Excellency's Government confirm and accept it, by means of an appropriate note in accordance with the above-mentioned Article, on or before March 16 , 1948 , at

which time the existing agreement becomes invalid .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration.

FLETCHER WARREN

His Excellency

American Ambassador

Doctor Don CÉSAR A. VASCONCELLOS ,

Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship , Asunción .

Ante, p. 2825. Ante, p. 2824.
Ante, p. 2832.

The Paraguayan Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Relations and Worship to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

D. P.y D.N· 332.
SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

ASUNCIÓN, 12 de Marzo de 1948.-

Tengo el agrado de dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia, acusando recibo de la nota Nº 26 , de fecha 9 [ '] de Marzo en curso , en la que confirma y acepta la extensión del acuerdo sobre el establecimiento de un programa cooperativo de educación en el Paraguay.-

1 The correct date is Mar. 10.

2840

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Al respecto, me es grato comunicar a Vuestra Excelencia , que mi Gobierno acepta y confirma el acuerdo de extensión de acuerdo al artículo mencionado en la referida nota.-
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta consideración.-

Sub-Secretario de Estado de Relaciones Exteriores y Culto A Su Excelencia
El Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Hon . FLETCHER WARREN Presente.-

Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP

D. P. y D.No. 332.-

ASUNCIÓN, March 12 , 1948.-

Mr. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to address Your Excellency to acknowledge receipt of note No. 26 of March 9 , in which you confirm and accept the extension of the agreement on the establishment of a cooperative program of education in Paraguay.
In this regard , I have the pleasure of informing Your Excellency that my Government accepts and confirms the extension agreement in accordance with the article mentioned in the note in question .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration . AUGUSTO SALDIVAR

Under-Secretary of Statefor

His Excellency

Foreign Relations and Worship

FLETCHER WARREN

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the United States of America, Asunción .

62 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- CLAIMS-OCT. 19, 1948

2841

Agreement between the United States of America , France, and Australia respecting "Marechal Joffre" claims. Signed at Washington October 19, 1948; entered into force October 19, 1948.

October 19, 1948 (T. I. A. S. 1816]

AGREEMENT RESPECTING ACCORD RELATIF A CER-

CERTAIN MARECHAL TAINES RECLAMATIONS

JOFFRE CLAIMS

CONCERNANT LE

"MARECHAL JOFFRE"

The Government of the United Le Gouvernement des Etats-

States of America, the Govern- Unis d'Amérique, le Gouvernement of the French Republic, and ment de la République Française, the Government of the Common- et le Gouvernement du Commonwealth of Australia have reached wealth d'Australie ont abouti à

agreement respecting the settle- un accord relatif au règlement de ment of certain claims arising out certaines réclamations résultant de of the requisitioning of the SS la réquisition du navire MARECHAL MARECHALJOFFRE and the unload- JOFFRE et du déchargement de sa ing of its cargo in Australia. The cargaison en Australie . Les ter-

terms of agreement are set forth mes de cet accord sont exposés

in the attached Memorandum of dans le mémorandum d'accord ci-

Understanding.

annexé.

DONE in triplicate, in the Eng- FAIT en trois exemplaires, en

lish and French languages, at langue anglaise et en langue

Washington this nineteenth day française, à Washington, ce dix-

of October 1948.

neuvième jour d'octobre 1948.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA: POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE :
ROBERT A LOVETT
Acting Secretary of State of the United States of America
Secretaire d'Etat par Intérim des Etats-Unis d'Amérique

2842

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC : POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE :
H BONNET Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the French Republic in Washington Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire
de la République Française à Washington
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA :
POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DU COMMONWEALTH D'AUSTRALIE: NORMAN J. O. MAKIN
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Commonwealth of Australia in Washington Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire
du Commonwealth d'Australie à Washington

62 STAT. ]

MULTILATERAL- CLAIMS- OCT. 19, 1948

2843

MEMORANDUM OF UNDER- MEMORANDUM D'ACCORD

STANDING RESPECTING CONCERNANT CERTAINES

CERTAIN MARECHAL RECLAMATIONS RELA-

JOFFRE CLAIMS

TIVES AU "MARECHAL

JOFFRE"

1. With reference to the Annex 1. Se référant à l'annexe de

of the Agreement of May 28, l'accord du 28 mai 1946 entre le 1946 [ ] between the Government Gouvernement des Etats-Unis et

of the United States and the le Gouvernement français relatif

Government of France concerning aux créances maritimes, le Gouver-

maritime claims, the French Gov- nement français convient d'ins-

ernment agrees to process and truire et de régler toutes les pay all cargo claims arising out réclamations concernant la car-

Cargo claims.

of the requisitioning of the SS gaison du MARECHAL JOFFRE et

MARECHALJOFFRE. Claims will be résultant de la réquisition de ce

paid upon presentation of satisfac- navire. Les règlements des récla-

tory proof by the claimant of mations seront faits sur présenta-

ownership of and payment for the goods. A release and indemnity, running in favor of the Govern-

tion par le réclamant de preuves suffisantes de sa qualité de propriétaire et du paiement par lui des

Release and indemnity.

ment of the United States, the marchandises. Le réclamant sera

Government of France and the invité à donner décharge au Gou-

Commonwealth of Australia, will vernement des Etats-Unis, au be obtained from the claimant Gouvernement français et au

covering any claim he might have Commonwealth d'Australie, et à respecting the goods involved . A les garantir contre tout recours bond of indemnity issued by an éventuel concernant les marchanestablished bonding company or, dises en cause. Un titre de

Bond of indemnity

in cases where it is not practicable garantie émis par une société de to obtain such a bond of indem- cautionnement régulièrement cons-

nity, a similar indemnity issued tituée, ou, au cas où il ne serait by such persons or organizations pas possible d'obtenir ce titre, une as customarily issue such indemni- garantie semblable fournie par ties in the area involved , and toute personne ou société donnant indemnifying the three govern- habituellement de telles garanties ments against loss arising out of dans la zone considérée, devra the goods involved in the claim être fourni en cas de règlement de will be obtained in cases of pay- réclamations de personnes physi-

ment of claims of individuals and ques ou morales autres que des

corporations other than banks banques ou des compagnies d'as-

and insurance companies . Photo- surances, à l'effet de garantir les

static copies of the release and trois gouvernements contre tout

indemnity bonds will be furnished préjudice du fait des marchandises

to the United States Government ayant donné lieu à réclamation . and the Commonwealth of Des copies photostatiques de la

Australia.

décharge et du titre de garantie

seront fournies au Gouvernement

des Etats-Unis et au Common-

'Not printed.

wealth d'Australie.

68706-52- PT. III- 16

Photostatic copies.

2844

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Payment to French Government by Australia.

2. The Commonwealth of Aus- 2. Le Commonwealth d'Aus-
tralia will pay in Australian cur- tralie paiera en monnaie ausrency to the Government of tralienne au Gouvernement fran-

France the net proceeds realized çais le produit net de la vente de upon disposition of cargo ex la cargaison du MARECHAL JOFFRE MARECHAL JOFFRE which was qui a été débarquée en Australie ,

landed in Australia, and the et le Gouvernement des EtatsclUai.msS.. waiver of Government of the United States Unis abandonne par le présent
hereby waives any claim to such acte tous droits sur ce produit . proceeds. The Commonwealth of Le Commonwealth d'Australie se

Australia hereby agrees that such déclare d'accord pour que sur

net proceeds will, upon request of demande du Gouvernement fran-

the Government of France, be çais le montant de ce produit net

deposited in sterling currency to soit déposé en monnaie sterling

the credit of the Number 1 au crédit du compte No. 1 de la

Indemnification of Australia by France.

account of the Bank of France in Banque de France à Londres . London.
3. The French Government 3. Le Gouvernement français
hereby indemnifies the Common- garantit par le présent acte le

wealth of Australia against any Commonwealth d'Australie contre

loss arising out of claims for cargo tout préjudice résultant des ré-

ex MARECHAL JOFFRE . In view of clamations relatives à la cargaison the fact that the liability of the du MARECHAL JOFFRE. Etant

Commonwealth of Australia can- donné que la responsabilité du not extend beyond the cargo Commonwealth d'Australie ne

actually unloaded in Australia, peut pas s'étendre au-delà de la

and in view of the fact that a valeur de la cargaison effective-

fairly substantial amount has been ment déchargée en Australie , et realized upon the disposal of these que la vente des marchandises a

items, it is highly unlikely that laissé un produit substantiel, il

there will be any significant est extrêmement improbable qu'il

amount of loss to which this résulte de cette garantie un risque

indemnity applies .

appréciable .

Payments to U. S. citizens.

4. Payments made with res- 4. Les paiements faits sur les

pect to properly substantiated réclamations convenablement jus-

claims of United States citizens tifiées de citoyens des Etats -Unis

duly recognized by the Govern- et dûment admises par le Gou-

ment of France will be paid by the vernement français seront effec-

Australian waiver of claim against U. S. Government.

Government of France in United tués par le Gouvernement fran-

States dollars .

çais en dollars des Etats-Unis .

5. The Commonwealth of Aus- 5. Le Commonwealth d'Aus-

tralia hereby waives any further tralie abandonne par le présent

claim against the Government of acte toute réclamation ultérieure

the United States arising out of the contre le Gouvernement des Etats-

requisitioning of the MARECHAL Unis du fait de la réquisition du

JOFFRE and the unloading of the MARECHAL JOFFRE et du décharge-

cargo in Australia.

ment de sa cargaison en Australie.

62 STAT. ]

PORTUGAL -TRADE- SEPT. 28, 1948

2845

Agreement between the United States of America and Portugal respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lisbon September 28, 1948 ; entered into force September 28, 1948.

September 28, 1948 [T. I. A. 8. 1817]

The American Ambassador to the Portuguese Minister for Foreign Affairs

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Portugal and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows:
1. For such time as the Government of the United States of
America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany and the Free Territory of Trieste, the Government of Portugal will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most-favored-nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America set forth in the
Commercial Agreement signed June 28 , 1910 , [ ] or for such time as the Governments of the United States of America and Portugal may both be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30, 1947 , the provisions of that Agreement, as now or hereafter amended , relating to the most-favorednation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the mostfavored-nation provisions of the Commercial Agreement shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most-favored-nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Portugal.
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

Treaty Series 514 % ; 1910 Foreign Relations 828.

2846 Duration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany referred to in point 1 above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists , and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Portugal to levy a countervailing duty on import of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of
Portugal determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given .
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
LINCOLN MACVEAGH LISBON, September 28 , 1948. His Excellency
Dr. JOSE CAEIRO DA MATTA, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lisbon.

The Portuguese Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTÉRIO DOS NEGÓCIOS ESTRANGEIROS
LISBOA, 28 de Setembro de 1948. SENHOR EMBAIXADOR,
Em referência às conversações celebradas recentemente entre representantes dos nossos dois Governos àcerca da aplicação territorial dos acordos comerciais entre Portugal e os Estados Unidos da América, tenho a honra de confirmar o entendimento a que se chegou como resultado dessas conversações, como segue :
1 Department of State publication 3117.

62 STAT. ]

PORTUGAL TRADE- SEPT. 28, 1948

1. Durante o período em que o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América participar na ocupação ou fiscalização de quaisquer áreas da Alemanha Ocidental e do Território Livre de Trieste, o Governo Português aplicará ao comércio de mercadorias daquelas áreas as disposições relativas ao tratamento de nação mais favorecida que o Acordo Comercial assinado a 28 de Junho de 1910 estabelece para o comércio de mercadorias dos Estados Unidos da América ou aplicará ao mesmo comércio as disposições do Acordo Geral de Tarifas e Comércio de 30 de Outubro de 1947 relativas ao tratamento de nação mais favorecida, tal como agora se encontram ou depois de emendadas, enquanto os dois Governos forem partes contratantes do mesmo Acordo. Fica entendido que o compromisso assumido nos termos deste parágrafo, relativo à aplicação das disposições do Acordo Comercial sobre o tratamento da nação mais favorecida estará sujeito às excepções estabelecidas no Acordo Geral de Tarifas e Comércio que permitem a não aplicação do referido tratamento ; devendo-se entender que na frase antecedente nada deverá ser interpretado como exigindo o cumprimento das regras especificadas no Acordo Geral no que respeita à aplicação de tais excepções .
2. O compromisso assumido no parágrafo primeiro não se aplicará ao comércio de mercadorias de qualquer área nele mencionada senão durante o período e na medida em que as ditas áreas concedam reciprocamente o tratamento de nação mais favorecida ao comércio de Portugal.
3. Os compromissos dos parágrafos primeiro e segundo acima são tomados tendo em consideração a inexistência actual de barreiras aduaneiras efectivas e reais postas às importações nas áreas aqui mencionadas. No caso em que as aludidas barreiras sejam estabelecidas, fica entendido que os mesmos compromissos não prejudicarão a aplicação dos princípios enunciados na Carta de Havana para a Organização do Comércio Internacional relativos à redução de tarifas numa base de mútuas vantagens.
4. Fica entendido que a ausência de uma taxa de câmbio uniforme para a moeda das áreas da Alemanha ocidental mencionadas no parágrafo primeiro acima indicado poderá ter o efeito de um subsídio indirecto às exportações das referidas áreas numa extensão difícil de calcular exactamente . Enquanto essas condições existirem , e se depois de consultado o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América não se chegar a acordo sobre a solução do problema, fica entendido que não será contrário ao compromisso tomado no parágrafo primeiro pelo Governo Português impôr um direito de compensação sobre as importações das referidas mercadorias que fosse o equivalente do montante avaliado de tal subsídio, no caso do Governo Português decidir que esse subsídio é de tal natureza que cause ou ameace causar prejuízos materiais a uma indústria nacional já instalada ou que impeça ou retarde materialmente a instalação de uma indústria nacional .
5. Os compromissos assumidos na presente nota manter-se-ão em vigor até 1 de Janeiro de 1951 , e a não ser que qualquer dos dois Governos, seis meses pelo menos antes dessa data, tenha comunicado

2847

2848

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
ao outro por escrito a intenção de pôr termo a esses compromissos na referida data, prolongar-se-á a sua vigência até seis meses depois do dia em que tal intenção haja sido manifestada .
Aproeito a oportunidade para reiterar a V. Ex.*, Senhor Embaixador, os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
José CAEIRO DA MATTA Sua Excelência
Senhor LINCOLN MACVEAGH Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América em Lisboa, Portugal. etc. , etc., etc.

Translation MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

MR. AMBASSADOR :

LISBON, September 28, 1948.

With reference to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of the commercial arrangements between Portugal and the United States of America , I have the honor to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations , as follows:

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America
participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany and the Free Territory of Trieste , the Portuguese Govern ment will apply to the merchandise trade of such areas the provisions relating to the most-favored-nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America set forth in the Commercial Agreement signed June 28 , 1910 or for such time as the two Govern-
ments may be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and6. and Trade dated October 30 , 1947 , the provisions of that Agree-
ment, as now or hereafter amended, relating to the most-favorednation treatment. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the most-favored-nation provisions of the Commercial Agreement shall be subject to the exceptions established in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of the above-mentioned treatment ; it being understood that nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the regulations specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such
exceptions . 2. The undertaking assumed in paragraph 1 will apply to the
merchandise trade of any area mentioned therein only for such time and to such extent as the said areas accord reciprocal most-favorednation treatment to the trade of Portugal .

62 STAT. ]

PORTUGAL- TRADE- SEPT. 28, 1948

3. The undertakings in paragraphs 1 and 2 , above , are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas mentioned herein. In the event that such tariff barriers are established , it is recognized that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas of western Germany referred to in paragraph 1 above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such conditions exist, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it shall be understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking assumed in paragraph 1 for the Government of Portugal to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of Portugal determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten to cause material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless , at least six months before that date, either Govemment shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate those undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest consideration .
JOSÉ CAEIRO DA MATTA His Excellency
LINCOLN MACVEAGH
Ambassador of the United States of America at Lisbon, Portugal. etc., etc., etc.

2849

2850

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

September 16, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1818]

Agreement between the United States of America and Czechoslovakia respecting mutual aid settlement . Signed at Praha September 16, 1948; entered into force September 16, 1948.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CZECHOSLOVAK REPUBLIC ON SETTLEMENT FOR LEND-LEASE AND CERTAIN CLAIMS

The Government of the United States of America and the Govern-

ment of the Czechoslovak Republic have reached agreement as set forth below regarding settlement for lend -lease and for certain financial

claims arising as a result of World War II. Both Governments, in

arriving at this settlement, have taken full cognizance of the benefits

already received by them in the defeat of their common enemies, and

of the aid furnished by each Government to the other in the course of the war.

"Lend-lease article."

1. Definition . The term "lend-lease article" as used in this

55 Stat. 31. 22 U. 8S. C. § 411-
419; Supp. I, § 412 et seq.

Agreement means any article transferred by the Government of the United States of America under the Act of March 11 , 1941 ,
/a/ to the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic , or /b/ to any other government and retransferred to the Government
of the Czechoslovak Republic.

2. Lend-Lease

/a/ Transfer of Title . Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph 2 , the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic receives full title to lend-lease articles in its possession. /b/ Right of Recapture. The Government of the United States of America reserves the right of recapture of any lend -lease articles held by the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic of types essentially or exclusively for use in war or warlike exercises , but has indicated that it does not intend to exercise generally this right of recapture. The Government of the Czechoslovak Re-
public agrees that all such articles held by it will be used only for purposes compatible with the principles of international security and welfare set forth in the Charter of the United Nations .
/c/ Waiver of Payment . Except as provided in this Agreement , the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic will make no further payment to the Government of the United States of America for lend-lease articles.
/d/ Restrictions on Disposal. Disposals of lend-lease articles of types essentially or exclusively for use in war or warlike exercises, and disposals of other types of lend-lease articles except for use in Czechoslovak territory , will be made only with the consent of the

62 STAT. ] CZECHOSLOVAKIA- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 16, 1948

2851

Government of the United States of America . All net proceeds of disposals requiring such consent will be paid to the Government of the United States of America.
Payment by Czecho3. Other Benefits . In liquidation of pre and post V-J Day transfers slovak Republic. by the Government of the United States of America, to the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic amounting to approximately $2,762,075.67, the Government of the United States of America agrees to accept and the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic agrees to pay the total sum of Czech crowns 8,648,072.50 /or such sum in Czech crowns as may be equivalent to U. S. $ 172,961.45 at the official rate of exchange between Czech crowns and U. S. dollars , should such rate be other than 50 Czech crowns 1 U. S. dollar upon
date of payment/ not later than ten /10/ days after the execution of this agreement. Payment of the foregoing amount shall be made in
Czech crowns to the American Embassy in the city of Prague. On the receipt by the American Embassy of the foregoing amount, the

Government of the Czechoslovak Republic shall be released from any

and all obligations except as otherwise specified in this agreement

arising under the Act of Congress of the United States of America dated March 11 , 1941 , known as the "Lend-Lease Act" and under the Master Lend-Lease Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic signed July 11 , 1942 , including transfers received by the

55 Stat. 31. 22 U. S. C. §§ 4114e1t9s;eq.Supp . I, 412
56 Stat. 1562.

Government of the Czechoslovak Republic from countries other than the United States of America. Any claim or claims that may be advanced against the Government of the Czechoslovak Republic by a government other than the Government of the United States of

America arising out of either of the above mentioned Lend-Lease Act and Agreement may be referred by the Government of the Czecho-

slovak Republic to the Government of the United States of America for appropriate attention .
4. Other Claims Reserved . This Agreement does not affect claims or negotiations except those arising out of lend -lease or otherwise

specifically disposed of by this Agreement . 5. Effective Date. This Agreement shall be effective upon
signature .

Effective date.

DONE AT PRAHA, in duplicate , in the English and Czech languages, this 16 day of Septembre, 1948 .

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA LAURENCE A. STEINHARDT

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CZECHOSLOVAK REPUBLIC Dr RUDOLF BYSTRICKÝ

2852

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
DOHODA MEZI VLADOU SPOJENÝCH STÁT AVERICKÝCH A VLÁDOU CESKOSLOV NSKÉ REPUBLIKY O ÚHRAD ZA DODÁVKY V RANCI PJCKY A PRONAJIU A URCITÉ POHLEDÁVKY
Vláda Spojených stát amerických a vláda Ceskoslovenské republiky se dohodly , jak níze uvedeno , o vyúctování dodávek v rámci pjcky a pronájmu a urcitých financních pohledávek vyplynuvsích z druhé svtové války . Ob vlády , sjednavse tuto dohodu , jsou si pln vdomy výhod , kterých jiz se domohly porázkou svých spolecných nepátel , i pomoci , kterou si ob. navzájem poskytovaly v prbhu války .
1. Vymezení pojmu . Oznacení ´zbozí z pjcky a pronájmu´ , jak se ho uzívá v této dohod , znamená jakékoli zbozí postoupené vládou Spojených státy amerických podle zákona z 11.bezna 1941
/a/ vlád Ceskoslovenské republiky , nebo /b/ kterékoliv jiné vlád a pak dále postoupené vlád
Ceskoslovenské republiky. 2. Pjcka a pronájem .
/a/ Postup právního titulu . Krom pípad , o nichz platí jiné ustanovení uvedené v tomto 2.odstavci , vlád Ceskoslovenské republiky se dostává plného právního titulu ke zbozí z pjcky a pronájmu , které je v jejím drzení .
/b/ Právo zptného vyzádání . Vláda Spojených stát amerických si vyhrazuje právo zptného vyzádání kteréhokoli zbozí z pjcky a pronájmu , které je v drzení vlády Ceskoslovenské republiky takových druh , hodících se pevázn nebo výhradn k válec-

62 STAT.] CZECHOSLOVAKIA-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 16, 1948
nému pouzití nebo k bojovému výcviku , naznacila vsak , ze nezamýslí toto právo zptného vyzádání vseobecn uplatovati . Vláda Ceskoslovenské republiky pivoluje k tomu , aby veskeré takové zbozí v jejím drzení bylo uzíváno jen k úcelm slucitelným se zásadami mezinárodní bezpecnosti a blaha , vytcenými v Chart Spojených národ . /c/ Zeknutí se zaplacení . Pokud není jinak stanoveno v této dohod , vláda Ceskoslovenské republiky nezaplatí zádnou dalsí úhradu za zbozí z pjcky a pronájmu vlád Spojených stát . /d/ Omezení odprodeje . Odprodeje zbozí z pjcky a pronájmu , druh hodících se pevázn nebo výhradn k válecnému pouzití nebo k bojovému výcviku , a odprodeje jiných druh zbozí z pjcky a pronájmu k pouzití mimo ceskoslovenské území , budou se díti jen se souhlasem vlády Spojených stát amerických . Celý ryzí výtzek z odprodej , vyzadujících takového souhlasu , bude vyplacen vlád Spojených stát amerických . 3. Jiné výhody . Pro likvidaci pevod , provádných pede dnem i po dni vítzství nad Japonskem vládou Spojených stát amerických na vládu Ceskoslovenské republiky a cinících piblizn 2,762.075.67 , vláda Spojených stát amerických souhlasí s pijetím a vláda Ceskoslovenské republiky souhlasí se zaplacenía celkové cástky Kös8,648.072.50 /rebo takové cástky v ceskoslovenských korunách , která by se rovnala 172,961.45 amerických dolar pi úedním kursu ceskoslo venské koruny a amerického dolaru , jestlize by v den placení

2853

2854

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

tento kurs byl jiný nez Kcs 50.- za 1 americký dolar/ , ne pozdji nez deset /10/ dn po podepsání této dohody . Zaplacení této cástky bude provedeno v ceskoslovenských korunách. americkému velvyslanectví v mst Praze . Jakmile americké velvyslanectví pijme uvedenou cástku , vláda Ceskoslovenské

republiky bude zprostna veskerých závazk , vyjma jak jinak stanoveno touto dohodou , vyplývajících z ustanovení zákona Kongresu Spojených stát amerických ze dne 11. bezna 1941 , oznacovaného názvem zákon o pjcce a pronájmu´´a na pod-

klad základní dohody o pjcce a pronájmu , podepsané 11. cervence 1942 mezi vládou Spojených stát amerických a vládou Ceskoslovenské republiky vcetn dodávek obdrzených vládou Ceskoslovenské republiky od jiných zemí nez od Spojených stát amerických . Kazdá pohledávka , nebo pohledávky , které by mohly býti uplatovány proti vlád Ceskoslovenské republiky nkterou jinou vládou nez vládou Spojenych stát

amerických a které vyplývají bu z výse uvedeného zákona o pjcce a pronájmu , nebo ze základní dohody , mohou být

oznámeny vládou Ceskoslovenské republiky vlád Spojených stát amerických k píslusnému dalsímu ízení .

4. Jiné vyhrazené pohledávky . Tato dohoda nemá vlivu

na pohledávky , nebo jednání krom tch , jez vyplývají ze

zákona o pjcce a pronájmu , nebo byly jinak touto dohodou výslovn eseny .

5. Pocátek úcinnosti . dnem podpisu .

Tato dohoda vstoupí v úcinnost

62 STAT. ] CZECHOSLOVAKIA-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-SEPT. 16, 1948
DÁNO V PRAZE ve dvojím vyhotovení , v anglickém a ceském jazyce , dne 16. msíce záí 1948 .

2855

ZA VLÁDU SPOJENÝCH STÁT AMERICKÝCH

ZA VLÁDU CESKOSLOVENSKÉ REPUBLIKY Budal fstur ly

[SEAL]

[SEAL ]

2856

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

September 28, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1819]

Agreement between the United States of America and Portugal respecting economic cooperation under Public Law 472 , 80th Congress . Signed at Lisbon September 28 , 1948 ; entered into force September 28 , 1948 .

ECONOMIC COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND PORTUGAL

Preamble

The Governments of the United States of America and Portugal:
Recognizing that the restoration or maintenance in European countries of principles of individual liberty, free institutions, and genuine independence rests largely upon the establishment of sound economic conditions , stable international economic relationships, and the achievement by the countries of Europe of a healthy economy independent of extraordinary outside assistance ;
Recognizing that a strong and prosperous European economy is essential for the attainment of the purposes of the United Nations ;
Considering that the achievement of such conditions calls for a European recovery plan of self-help and mutual cooperation , open to all nations which cooperate in such a plan, based upon a strong production effort, the expansion of foreign trade, the creation or maintenance of internal financial stability and the development of economic cooperation, including all possible steps to establish and maintain valid rates of exchange and to reduce trade barriers ;
Considering that in furtherance of these principles the Government of Portugal has joined with other like-minded nations in a Convention for European Economic Cooperation signed at Paris on April 16 , 1948 [1] under which the signatories of that Convention agreed to undertake as their immediate task the elaboration and execution of a joint recovery program, and that the Government of Portugal is a member of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation created pursuant to the provisions of that Convention ;
Considering also that, in furtherance of these principles the Government of the United States of America has enacted the Economic 62 Stat. , Pt. 1, p. 137. Cooperation Act of 1948 , providing for the furnishing of assistance by the United States of America to nations participating in a joint program for European recovery , in order to enable such nations through their own individual and concerted efforts to become independent of extraordinary outside economic assistance ;
Taking note that the Government of Portugal has already expressed its adherence to the purposes and policies of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 :
1 Department of State publication 3145.

62 STAT. ] PORTUGAL-ECONOMIC COOPERATION-- SEPT. 28, 1948

2857

Desiring to set forth the understandings which govern the furnish-

ing of assistance by the Government of the United States of America

under the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 , the receipt of such

assistance by Portugal, and the measures which the two Governments

will take individually and together in furthering the recovery of

Portugal as an integral part of the joint program for European recovery ;

Have agreed as follows:

Article I

62 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 137.

(Assistance and Cooperation)
1. The Government of the United States of America undertakes to cooperate with the Government of Portugal in furthering the purposes set forth in the Preamble by facilitating the acquisition by Portugal of such commodities as it may require from the United States of America in carrying out the joint program for European recovery , and as may be agreed from time to time by the two Governments . This undertaking on the part of the Government of the United States of America is subject to all the terms, conditions and termination provisions of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 , acts amendatory and supplementary thereto and appropriation acts thereunder.
2. The Government of Portugal , acting individually and through the Organization for European Economic Cooperation consistently with the Convention for European Economic Cooperation signed at Paris on April 16 , 1948 , will exert sustained efforts in common with other participating countries speedily to achieve through a joint recovery program economic conditions in Europe essential to lasting peace and prosperity and to enable the countries of Europe participating in such a joint recovery program to become independent of extraordinary outside economic assistance within the period of this Agreement. The Government of Portugal reaffirms its intention to take action to carry out the provisions of the General Obligation of the Convention for European Economic Cooperation , to continue to participate actively in the work of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation , and to continue to adhere to the purposes and policies of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948.
3. With respect to assistance furnished by the Government of the United States of America to Portugal and procured from areas outside the United States of America , its territories and possessions, the Government of Portugal will cooperate with the Government of the United States of America in ensuring that procurement will be effected at reasonable prices and on reasonable terms and so as to arrange that the dollars thereby made available to the country from which the assistance is procured are used in a manner consistent with any arrangements made by the Government of the United States of America with such country.

2858

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article II

(General Undertakings)

1. In order to achieve the maximum recovery through the employment of assistance received from the Government of the United

States of America, the Government of Portugal will use its best

Measures for practical use of resources.
Post, p. 2864.

endeavors: a) to adopt or maintain the measures necessary to ensure efficient and practical use of all the resources available to

it , including

(i) such measures as may be necessary to ensure that the commodities and services obtained with assistance furnished under this Agreement are used for purposes

consistent with this Agreement and , as far as practicable, with the general purposes outlined in the schedules furnished by the Government of Portugal in support of the requirements of assistance to be furnished by the Government of the United States of America ; and

(ii) the observation and review of the use of such resources

through an effective follow-up system approved by the

Development of production.

Organization for European Economic Cooperation ; b) to promote the development of industrial and agricultural

production on a sound economic basis ; to achieve such

production targets as may be established through the

Stimulation oftrade.

Organization for European Economic Cooperation ; c) to cooperate with other participating countries in facilitating

and stimulating an increasing interchange of goods and

services among the participating countries and with other

countries and in reducing public and private barriers to

trade among themselves and with other countries .

Utilization of manpower.

2. Taking into account Article 8 of the Convention for European

Economic Cooperation [ ] looking toward the full and effective use of

manpower available in the participating countries , the Government

of Portugal will accord sympathetic consideration to proposals made

in conjunction with the International Refugee Organization directed

to the largest practicable utilization of manpower available in any of

the participating countries in furtherance of the accomplishment of

Prevention of prac tices interfering with
gacrhaime.vement of proPost, p. 2864.

the purposes of this Agreement . 3. The Government of Portugal will take the measures which it
deems appropriate, and will cooperate with other participating countries , to prevent, on the part of private or public commercial enter-

prises, business practices or business arrangements affecting international trade which restrain competition, limit access to markets or foster monopolistic control whenever such practices or arrangements have the effect of interfering with the achievement of the joint program of European recovery.

¹ Department of State publication 3145 .

62 STAT. ] PORTUGAL ECONOMIC COOPERATION- SEPT. 28, 1948

2859

Article III

(Guaranties)

1. The Governments of the United States of America and Portugal will, upon the request of either Government, consult respecting projects in Portugal proposed by nationals of the United States of America and with regard to which the Government of the United States of America may appropriately make guaranties of currency transfer under section 111 (b) (3 ) of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948.
2. The Government of Portugal agrees that if the Government of the United States of America makes payment in United States dollars to any person under such a guaranty, any escudos , or credits in escudos, assigned or transferred to the Government of the United States of America pursuant to that section shall be recognized as property of the Government of the United States of America .

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 144. Post, p. 2863.

Article IV

(Access to Materials)
1. The Government of Portugal will facilitate the transfer to the United States of America , for stockpiling or other purposes, of materials originating in Portugal which are required by the United States of America as a result of deficiencies or potential deficiencies in its own resources, upon such reasonable terms of sale , exchange, barter or otherwise, and in such quantities, and for such period of time, as may be agreed to between the Governments of the United States of America and Portugal, after due regard for the reasonable requirements of Portugal for domestic use and commercial export of such materials. The Government of Portugal will take such specific measures as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph, including the promotion of the increased production of such materials within Portugal, and the removal of any hindrances to the transfer of such materials to the United States of America . The Government of Portugal will, when so requested by the Government of the United States of America, enter into negotiations for detailed arrangements necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph.
2. The Government of Portugal , when so requested by the Government of the United States of America , will cooperate, wherever appropriate, to further the objectives of paragraph 1 of this Article in respect of materials originating outside of Portugal.

Post, p. 2863. Post, p. 2864.

Article V

(Travel Arrangements and Relief Supplies)
1. The Government of Portugal will cooperate with the Government of the United States of America in facilitating and encouraging the promotion and development of travel by citizens of the United States of America to and within participating countries.
2. The Government of Portugal will, when so desired by the Government of the United States of America, enter into negotiations for agreements (including the provision of duty-free treatment under

2860

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

appropriate safeguards) to facilitate the entry into Portugal of supplies of relief goods donated to or purchased by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies and of relief packages originating in the United States of America and consigned to individuals residing in Portugal.
Article VI

(Consultation and Transmittal of Information)

1. The two Governments will, upon the request of either of them, consult regarding any matter relating to the application of this Agreement or to operations or arrangements carried out pursuant to this Agreement.
2. The Government of Portugal will communicate to the Government of the United States of America in a form and at intervals to be

Post, p . 2864.

indicated by the latter after consultation with the Government of Portugal :
a) detailed information of projects, programs and measures proposed or adopted by the Government of Portugal to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and the General Obligations of the Convention for European Economic Cooperation ;

b) full statements of operations under this Agreement , including a statement of the use of funds, commodities and services received thereunder , such statements to be made in each calendar quarter ;

62 Stat ., Pt. 1, p. 137.

c) information regarding its economy and any other relevant information, necessary to supplement that obtained by the Government of the United States of America from the Organization for European Economic Cooperation , which the Government of the United States of America may need to determine the nature and scope of operations under the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948, and to evaluate the effectiveness of assistance

furnished or contemplated under this Agreement and generally the progress of the joint recovery program.

Post, p. 2863. Ante, p. 2859.

3. The Government of Portugal will assist the Government of the United States of America to obtain information relating to the materials originating in Portugal referred to in Article IV which is necessary to the formulation and execution of the arrangements provided for in that Article.

Article VII

(Publicity)
1. The Governments of the United States of America and Portugal recognize that it is in their mutual interest that full publicity be given to the objectives and progress of the joint program for European recovery and of the actions taken in furtherance of that program . It is recognized that wide dissemination of information on the progress of the program is desirable in order to develop the sense of common effort and mutual aid which are essential to the accomplishment of the objectives of the program.

62 STAT.] PORTUGAL-ECONOMIC COOPERATION- SEPT. 28, 1948

2861

2. The Government of the United States of America will encourage the dissemination of such information and will make it available to the media of public information.
3. The Government of Portugal will encourage the dissemination of such information both directly and in cooperation with the Organization for European Economic Cooperation . It will make such information available to the media of public information and take all practicable steps to ensure that appropriate facilities are provided for such dissemination . It will further provide other participating countries and the Organization for European Economic Cooperation with full information on the progress of the program for economic recovery.
4. The Government of Portugal will make public in Portugal in meQnutasrtoefrolpyerasttioantse. -
each calendar quarter, full statements of operations under this Agreement, including information as to the use of funds, commodities and services received.
Article VIII

(Missions )

1. The Government of Portugal agrees to receive a Special Mission

for Economic Cooperation which will discharge the responsibilities

of the Government of the United States of America in Portugal under this Agreement.
2. The Government of Portugal will , upon appropriate notification from the Ambassador of the United States of America in Portugal,

parSpteocfiUa.lS.MiEsmsbiaonssays Post, p. 2864.

consider the Special Mission and its personnel, and the United States Special Representative in Europe, as part of the Embassy of the United States of America in Portugal for the purpose of enjoying the

privileges and immunities accorded to that Embassy and its personnel

of comparable rank. The Government of Portugal will further accord appropriate courtesies to the members and staff of the Joint

Committee on Foreign Economic Cooperation of the Congress of the

United States of America , and grant them the facilities and assistance

necessary to the effective performance of their responsibilities.

3. The Government of Portugal, directly and through its repre-

sentatives on the Organization for European Economic Cooperation ,

will extend full cooperation to the Special Mission , to the United States Special Representative in Europe and his staff, and to the members and staff of the Joint Committee. Such cooperation shall include the provision of all information and facilities necessary to the observation and review of the carrying out of this Agreement , including the use of assistance furnished under it .

Article IX
(Settlement of Claims of Nationals)
1. The Governments of the United States of America and Portugal agree to submit to the decision of the International Court of Justice any claim espoused by either Government on behalf of one of its nationals against the other Government for compensation for damage

2862

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

arising as a consequence of governmental measures (other than meas-

ures taken by the Government of the United States of America con-

cerning enemy property or interests) taken after April 3 , 1948 , by the

other Government and affecting property or interest of such national,

Post, p. 2865.

including contracts with or concessions granted by duly authorized authorities of such other Government. It is understood that the

undertaking of the Government of the United States of America in

respect of claims espoused by the Government of Portugal pursuant

to this paragraph is made under the authority of and is limited by the

terms and conditions of the recognition by the United States of

p.611218S.tat. , Pt . 2, Post, p. 2865.

America of the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice under Article 36 of the Statute of the Court, as set forth in the Declaration of the President of the United States of America dated August 14, 1946 .
2. The Governments of the United States of America and Portugal

further agree that such claims may be referred , in lieu of the Court, to any arbitral tribunal mutually agreed upon.
3. It is further understood that neither Government will espouse a claim pursuant to this Article until its national has exhausted the remedies available to him in the administrative and judicial tribunals of the country in which the claim arose.

4. The provisions of this Article shall be in all respects without

prejudice to other rights of access, if any, of either Government, to the International Court of Justice or other arbitral tribunal or to the

espousal and presentation of claims based upon alleged violations by either Government of rights and duties arising under treaties , agreements or principles of international law.

Article X

(Definitions)

As used in this Agreement:

Portugal, inclusion of dependent areas.

a) Portugal means the Republic of Portugal, (including the Azores

Islands and the Madeira Islands ) together with dependent areas

under its administration, including the Cape Verde Islands , Portuguese Guinea, the fortress of Sao Joao Baptista de Ajuda , Sao Tome

and Principe, Angola, Mozambique, Portuguese India (comprising

Goa, Damao , Diu) , Macao and Portuguese Timor .

"Participating country ."

b) The term "participating country" means (i) any country which signed the Report of the Committee of

European Economic Cooperation at Paris on September 22, 1947 , [' ] and territories for which it has international responsibility and to which the Economic Cooperation Agreement concluded between that country and the Government of the United States of America has been applied , and

(ii) any other country (including any of the zones of occupation of Germany, and areas under international administration

1 Department of State publication 2930.

62 STAT. ] PORTUGAL- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- SEPT. 28, 1948

2863

or control, and the Free Territory of Trieste or either of its zones) wholly or partly in Europe, together with dependent areas under its administration
for so long as such country is a party to the Convention for European Economic Cooperation and adheres to a joint program for European recovery designed to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement .

Article XI

(Entry into Force, Amendment, Duration) 1. This Agreement shall become effective on this day's date.

Effective date; duSub- ration.

ject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article , it shall

remain in force until June 30 , 1953 , and , unless at least six months

before June 30 , 1953 , either Government shall have given notice in

writing to the other of intention to terminate the Agreement on that

date, it shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six

months from the date on which such notice shall have been given. 2. If, during the life of this Agreement , either Government should
consider there has been a fundamental change in the basic assump-

Modification, etc.

tions underlying this Agreement, it shall so notify the other Government in writing and the two Governments will thereupon consult with a view to agreeing upon the amendment, modification or termination of this Agreement. If, after three months from such notification, the two Governments have not agreed upon the action to be taken in the circumstances , either Government may give notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate this Agreement. Then, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article, this Agreement shall terminate six months after the date of such notice of intention to

Termination .

terminate; provided , however, that Article IV and paragraph 3 of Article VI shall remain in effect until two years after the date of such

Ante, pp. 2859, 2860.

notice of intention to terminate, but not later than June 30 , 1953. 3. Subsidiary agreements and arrangements negotiated pursuant
to this Agreement may remain in force beyond the date of termination

Subsidiary agreements, etc.

of this Agreement and the period of effectiveness of such subsidiary

agreements and arrangements shall be governed by their own terms . Paragraph 2 of Article III shall remain in effect for so long as the

Ante, p. 2859.

guaranty payments referred to in that Article may be made by the Government of the United States of America .
4. This Agreement may be amended at any time by agreement between the two Governments .

Amendment.

5. The Annex to this Agreement forms an integral part thereof.
6. This Agreement shall be registered with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

Registration .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the respective representatives, duly authorized for the purpose, have signed the present Agreement .
DONE at Lisbon, in duplicate, in the English and Portuguese languages, both texts authentic, this 28th day of September, 1948 .

[SEAL]

LINCOLN MACVEAGH

[SEAL]

JOSÉ CAEIRO DA MATTA

Authentic language.

2864

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ANNEX

Ante, p. 2858. Ante, p. 2858.
Ante, p. 2858. Ante, p. 2859.
Ante, p. 2860. Ante, p. 2861

Interpretative Notes
1. It is understood that the requirements of paragraph 1 (a) of Article II , relating to the adoption of measures for the efficient use of resources, would include, with respect to commodities furnished under the Agreement , effective measures for safeguarding such commodities and for preventing their diversion to illegal or irregular markets or channels of trade.
2. It is understood that the business practices and business arrangements referred to in paragraph 3 of Article II mean :
a) fixing prices , terms or conditions to be observed in dealing with others in the purchase, sale or lease of any product ;
b) excluding enterprises from, or allocating or dividing, any territorial market or field of business activity , or allocating customers , or fixing sales quotas or purchase quotas ;
c) discriminating against particular enterprises ; d) limiting production or fixing production quotas ;
e) preventing by agreement the development or application of technology or invention whether patented or unpatented ;
f) extending the use of rights under patents, trade marks or copyrights granted by either country to matters which, according to its laws and regulations , are not within the scope of such grants , or to products or conditions of production , use or sale which are likewise not the subjects of such grants ; and
g) such other practices as the two Governments may agree to include.
3. It is understood that the Government of Portugal is obligated to take action in particular instances in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article II only after appropriate investigation or examination .
4. It is understood that the phrase in Article IV "after due regard for the reasonable requirements of Portugal for domestic use" would include the maintenance of reasonable stocks of the materials concerned and that the phrase "commercial export" might include barter transactions . It is also understood that arrangements negotiated under Article IV might appropriately include provision for consultation, in accordance with the principles of Article 32 of the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization , ['] in the event that stockpiles are liquidated .
5. It is understood that the Government of Portugal will not be requested , under paragraph 2 (a) of Article VI , to furnish detailed information about minor projects or confidential commercial or technical information the disclosure of which would injure legitimate commercial interests .
6. It is understood that the Government of the United States of America in making the notifications referred to in paragraph 2 of Article VIII would bear in mind the desirability of restricting, so

1 Department of State publication 3117.

62 STAT. ] PORTUGAL- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- SEPT. 28, 1948

2865

far as practicable, the number of officials for whom full diplomatic privileges would be requested . It is also understood that the detaile.d application of Article VIII would , when necessary , be the subject of inter-governmental discussion .
7. It is understood that if the Government of Portugal should accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice under Article 36 of the Statute of the Court, on suitable terms and conditions, the two Governments will consult with a view to replacing the second sentence of paragraph 1 of Article IX with provisions along the following lines : "It is understood that the undertaking of each Government in respect of claims espoused by the other Government pursuant to this paragraph is made in the case of each Government under the authority of and is limited by the terms and conditions of such effective recognition as it has heretofore given to the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice under Article 36 of the Statute of the Court."
8. It is understood that any agreements which might be arrived at pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article IX would be subject to ratification by the Senate of the United States of America.

59 Stat. 1060. Ante, p. 2862.
Ante, p. 2862.

2866

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

PREAMBULO
O Governo Português e o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América :
Reconhecendo que o restabelecimento ou a manutenção , nos países europeus, dos princípios de liberdade individual, das instituições livres e da verdadeira independência, assenta em grande parte na instauração de condições económicas sãs , de relações económicas internacionais estáveis e na consecução pelos países da Europa de uma economia saudável, independente da assistência externa de carácter excepcional ;
Reconhecendo que uma economia europeia forte e próspera é essencial à prossecução dos objectivos das Nações Unidas ;
Considerando que a obtenção de tais condições exige um Plano de Recuperação Europeia de esforço próprio e mutua cooperação , acessível a todas as nações que nele colaborem, baseado num vigoroso esforço de produção , na expansão do comércio externo , na criação ou manutenção de uma estabilidade financeira interna e no desenvolvimento da cooperação económica, incluindo todas as possíveis medidas a tomar tendentes a estabelecer e manter taxas de câmbio adequadas e a reduzir as barreiras aduaneiras ;
Considerando que, para a aplicação destes princípios , o Governo Português se associou a outras nações animadas do mesmo espírito , por uma Convenção para a Cooperação Económica Europeia, assinada em Paris, a 16 de Abril de 1948 , nos termos da qual os signatários daquela Convenção acordaram em proceder, como tarefa imediata , à elaboração e execução de um programa conjunto de recuperação , e que o Governo Português é um membro da Organização para a Cooperação Económica Europeia , criada de harmonia com as cláusulas da referida Convenção ;
Considerando igualmente que , para a aplicação destes princípios , o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América promulgou a Lei de Cooperação Económica de 1948 que regula a assistência a prestar pelos Estados Unidos da América às nações que participam num programa de conjunto de recuperação europeia, com o fim de as habilitar, tanto pelos seus próprios esforços como pelos esforços de todas em conjunto , a tornarem-se independentes de qualquer auxílio económico externo de carácter excepcional ;
Tomando nota de que o Governo Português deu já a sua adesão aos objectivos e aos princípios da Lei de Cooperação Económica de 1948 ;
Desejando concretizar os entendimentos que serviram de base à assistência a conceder pelo Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, nos termos da Lei de Cooperação Económica de 1948 e a aceitação dessa assistência por parte de Portugal, assim como as medidas que os dois Governos tomarão , individual e conjuntamente, para atender à

62 STAT. ] PORTUGAL-ECONOMIC COOPERATION- SEPT. 28, 1948
recuperação de Portugal como parte integrante do programa conjunto de recuperação europeia ;
Acordaram no seguinte:
ARTIGO I
(Assistência e cooperação) 1. O Governo dos Estados Unidos da América propóe-se cooperar com o Governo Português na realização dos objectivos estabelecidos no Preambulo, facilitando a aquisição , por parte de Portugal, das mercadorias dos Estados Unidos da América de que aquele país possa necessitar na execução do programa conjunto de recuperação europeia e à medida que vá sendo acordado entre os dois Governos . Este compromisso por parte do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América fica sujeito a todos os termos , condições e disposições relativos à expiração da Lei de Cooperação Económica de 1948, bem como das leis que a modifiquem ou completem e das que respeitem à apropriação dela resultantes. 2. O Governo Português agindo por si e através da Organização para a Cooperação Económica Europeia , de harmonia com a Convenção Económica para a Cooperação Europeia , assinada em Paris a 16 de Abril de 1948, empregará, em comum com os demais países participantes, esforços continuos tendentes a conseguir ràpidamente por meio de um programa comum de recuperação as condições económicas na Europa essenciais à existência de uma paz e prosperidade duradoiras, e permitir aos países do continente europeu que participam naquele programa de recuperação, ficarem independentes da assistência económica externa de carácter excepcional, dentro do período de duração deste Acordo . O Governo Português reafirma a intenção de actuar de maneira a cumprir as disposições das Obrigações Gerais da Convenção para a Cooperação Económica Europeia, de continuar a participar activamente no trabalho da Organização para a Cooperação Económica Europeia e de manter a sua adesão aos objectivos e princípios da Lei de Cooperação Económica de 1948 . 3. Em relação à assistência fornecida pelo Governo dos Estados Unidos da América a Portugal e obtida nas zonas situadas fora dos Estados Unidos, dos seus territórios e possessões , o Governo Português cooperará com o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América no sentido de que as compras se efectuem preços e em termos razoáveis e de maneira a que os dolares, postos à disposição do país de onde a assistência foi obtida, sejam utilizados de harmonia com quaisquer entendimentos existentes entre o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América e o referido país.
ARTIGO II
(Compromissos Gerais)
1. Afim de conseguir o máximo de recuperação pelo emprego da assistência recebida do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, o Governo Português envidará os seus melhores esforços no sentido de :
68706-52- PT. III- 17

2867

2868

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
a) adoptar ou manter as medidas necessárias para garantir o emprego eficiente e prático de todos os recursos postos à sua disposição , incluindo :
(i) as medidas que se tornem necessárias para garantir que as mercadorias e serviços obtidos pela assistência concedida nos termos deste Acordo sejam aplicados aos fins conformes ao mesmo Acordo , e, na medida do possível aos objectivos de ordem geral apresentados pelo Governo Português nas listas que servem de base aos pedidos de assistência a ser fornecida pelo Governo dos Estados Unidos da América ; e
(ii) a observação e verificação do emprego de tais recursos segundo um sistema eficaz de fiscalização , aprovado pela Organização para a Cooperação Económica Europeia ;
b) fomentar a produção industrial e agrícola numa base económica racional ; conseguir os objectivos de produção que possam vir a ser fixados através da Organização para a Cooperação Económica Europeia ;
c) cooperar com os países participantes no sentido de facilitar e estimular um crescente intercâmbio de mercadorias e serviços entre os países participantes e outros países , e bem assim reduzir as barreiras ao comércio, quer públicas quer privadas, entre eles e outros países .
2. Tendo em conta o Artigo VIII da Convenção para a Cooperação Económica Europeia , visando o emprego completo e efectivo da mão de obra disponível nos países participantes, o Governo Português , reservará um acolhimento favorável às propostas feitas de acordo com a Organização Internacional para os Refugiados , no sentido de utilizar ao máximo a mão de obra eventualmente disponível em qualquer dos países participantes , de maneira a promover a realização dos objectivos deste acordo .
3. O Governo Português tomará as medidas que julgar apropriadas e cooperará com outros países participantes no sentido de evitar da parte de empresas comerciais públicas ou privadas , práticas ou entendimentos de natureza comercial, que afectando o comércio internacional, entravem a concorrência, restrinjam o acesso aos mercados ou auxiliem a fiscalização com carácter de monopólio , em todos os casos em que tais práticas ou entendimentos vão interferir na consecução do programa comum de recuperação europeia .
ARTIGO III
(Garantias)
1. O Governo dos Estados Unidos da América e o Governo Português consultar-se- ão , a pedido de qualquer das duas partes, sobre os projectos apresentados em Portugal por subditos dos Estados Unidos. da América, e àcerca dos quais o mesmo Governo dos Estados Unidos da América pode consequentemente nos termos da secção III

62 STAT. ] PORTUGAL ECONOMIC COOPERATION- SEPT. 28, 1948
(b) (3) da Lei de Cooperação Económica de 1948 conceder garantias de transferência de fundos .
2. O Governo Português concorda em que, se o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América efectuar pagamentos em dolares americanos a qualquer pessoa, ao abrigo das garantias acima indicadas, os escudos ou créditos em escudos, destinados ou transferidos para o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América em consequência do disposto naquela. secção, serão reconhecidos como propriedade do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América .
ARTIGO IV
(Possibilidade de aquisição de certos produtos)
1. Com o fim da constituição de "stocks" ou qualquer outro, o Governo Português facilitará a transferência para os Estados Unidos da América de produtos originários de Portugal de que os Estados Unidos tenham necessidade motivada pela insuficiência efectiva ou eventual dos seus próprios recursos, em condições razoáveis de venda, de câmbio, de troca ou outras, durante um período e em quantidades a determinar, de comum acordo entre o Governo Português e o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, tendo em conta as necessidades razoáveis de Portugal no que diz respeito ao consumo interno e ao comércio de exportação desses produtos . O Governo Português tomará as medidas apropriadas que se tornem necessárias à execução das disposições deste parágrafo, incluindo o fomento da produção em Portugal desses produtos e a supressão de todos os obstáculos que se oponham à sua transferência para os Estados Unidos da América. O Governo Português, quando o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América o solicitar, entrará em negociações sobre os acordos detalhados que se impuserem à execução das disposições deste parágrafo.
2. O Governo Português, quando o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América manifeste esse desejo , cooperará com êle sempre que para tanto houver lugar, no sentido de atingir os objectivos do parágrafo 1 deste Artigo , no que respeita aos produtos de origem não portuguesa .
ARTIGO V
(Disposições relativas às facilidades de viagem e aos fornecimentos de socorro)
1. O Governo Português cooperará com o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América no sentido de facilitar e animar as iniciativas e o desenvolvimento das viagens de cidadãos dos Estados Unidos da América com destino aos países participantes e dentro deles .
2. O Governo Português, quando o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América o desejar, entrará em negociações para acordos (incluindo a cláusula do tratamento da isenção de direitos sob reserva de garantias apropriadas) destinados a facilitar a entrada em Portugal de fornecimentos de mercadorias de socorro oferecidas pelas organizações voluntárias americanas de socorro sem fins lucrativos ou por elas compradas, assim como de volumes de socorro que forem enviados dos Estados Unidos da América a pessoas residentes em Portugal.

2869

2870

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
ARTIGO VI
(Consultas e transmissão de informações)
1. Os dois Governos consultar-se-ão , por iniciativa de um ou de outro, sobre qualquer assunto relativo à execução deste Acordo e bem assim quanto às operações efectuadas ou aos entendimentos levados a efeito em consequência deste mesmo Acordo .
2. O Governo Português depois de consultado pelo Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, comunicará a este na forma e nos períodos por êle indicados:
a) informações pormenorizadas dos projectos , programas e medidas propostas ou adoptadas pelo Governo Português para executar as disposições do presente Acordo e as Obrigações Gerais da Convenção para a Cooperação Económica Europeia ;
b) relatos completos , elaborados trimestralmente, àcerca das operações efectuadas dentro deste Acordo, incluindo um sobre a utilização de fundos , mercadorias e serviços obtidos em virtude do mesmo Acordo ;
c) informações respeitantes à sua economia , e quaisquer outras de importância , necessárias para completar a que pelo Governo dos Estados Unidos da América for obtida da Organização para a Cooperação Económica Europeia, de forma a habilitarem o mesmo Governo a determinar a natureza e o alcance das operações previstas na Lei de Cooperação Económica de 1948 , e a avaliar da eficácia da assistência prestada ou projectada em virtude deste Acordo, e, de uma maneira geral os progressos do programa comum de recuperação .
3. O Governo Português auxiliará o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América a obter informações relativas aos produtos originários de Portugal a que se refere o Artigo IV, o que é necessário para a elaboração e execução dos entendimentos previstos naquele Artigo .
ARTIGO VII
(Publicidade)
1. O Governo Português e o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América reconhecem que é de interesse mutuo dar larga publicidade aos objectivos do programa comum de recuperação europeia, aos seus progressos e às medidas tomadas em execução do mesmo programa. Reconhecem igualmente que é desejável assegurar uma larga difusão de informações relativas aos progressos realizados na execução do referido programa afim de desenvolver o sentimento do esforço comum e o espírito de auxílio mutuo que são essenciais à realização dos objectivos que o programa tem em vista.
2. O Governo dos Estados Unidos da América animará a difusão de tais informações e pô-las-á à disposição dos organismos de informação do público .

62 STAT. ] PORTUGAL- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- SEPT. 28, 1948

3. O Governo Português animará a difusão dessas informações, quer directamente, quer por intermédio da Organização para a

Cooperação Económica Europeia . Pô-las-á à disposição dos organis-

mos de informação do público e tomará todas as possíveis medidas no

sentido de assegurar que sejam dadas facilidades adequadas a essa difusão . Além disso fornecerá aos outros países participantes e à

Organização para a Cooperação Económica Europeia as mais com-

pletas informações àcerca dos progressos efectuados na realização do programa de recuperação económica.

4. O Governo Português publicará cada trimestre em Portugal

relatos completos das operações efectuadas dentro deste Acordo ,

incluindo informações sobre a utilização de fundos, mercadorias e

serviços recebidos.

ARTIGO VIII

(Missões )
1. O Governo Português concorda em receber uma Missão Especial para a Cooperação Económica que assegurará o cumprimento das responsabilidades assumidas pelo Governo dos Estados Unidos da América em Portugal , nos termos do presente acordo .
2. O Governo Português, mediante a devida notificação do Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América em Portugal, considerará a Missão Especial, os seus funcionários e o representante especial dos Estados Unidos da América na Europa, como fazendo parte da Embaixada dos Estados Unidos da América em Portugal para efeitos de privilégios e imunidades concedidas àquela Embaixada e ao seu pessoal de categoria equivalente. O Governo Português observará além disso em relação aos membros e pessoal da Comissão Mixta para a Cooperação Económica Estrangeira do Congresso dos Estados Unidos da América as devidas regras de cortezia, concedendo-lhes igualmente as facilidades e a assistência necessárias para o cumprimento efectivo das suas responsabilidades.
3. O Governo Português, directamente e através dos seus representantes na Organização para a Cooperação Económica, dará inteira colaboração à Missão Especial, ao Representante Especial dos Estados Unidos da América na Europa e seu pessoal, bem como aos membros e pessoal da Comissão Mixta. Esta colaboração abrangerá o fornecimento de todas as informações e facilidades necessárias à observação e exame do cumprimento do presente Acordo, incluindo a utilização da assistência fornecida nos seus termos.

ARTIGO IX
(Disposições que regulam as reclamações dos nacionais)
1. O Governo Português e o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América acordam em submeter ao Tribunal de Justiça Internacional as reclamações patrocinadas por um dos dois Governos em nome de qualquer dos seus nacionais contra o outro Governo , para compensação de prejuízos em consequência de medidas governamentais por ele tomadas depois de 3 de Abril de 1948 (excepto as respeitantes a pro-

2871

2872

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
priedades ou interesses inimigos estabelecidas pelo Governo dos Estados Unidos da América) e que afectem propriedades ou interesses desses nacionais incluindo contratos celebrados com as autoridades devidamente qualificadas do outro Governo ou concessões por elas feitas . Fica entendido que o compromisso do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América àcerca das reclamações patrocinadas pelo Governo Português em virtude deste parágrafo , é assumido conforme os termos e condições do reconhecimento pelos Estados Unidos da América da jurisdição compulsória do Tribunal de Justiça Internacional e pelos mesmos termos e condições limitado , segundo o Artigo 36 do Estatuto do Tribunal, como ficou estabelecido na Declaração do Presidente dos Estados Unidos da América de 14 de Agosto de 1946.
2. O Governo Português e o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América concordam além disso em que tais reclamações possam ser submetidas a qualquer tribunal arbitral mutuamente aceite, em vez de o serem ao Tribunal de Justiça Internacional .
3. Entender-se-á ainda que nenhum dos dois Governos patrocinará, nos termos deste artigo , reclamação alguma de um dos seus nacionais antes do mesmo haver esgotado os meios à sua disposição nos tribunais administrativos e judicias do país onde a reclamação teve origem.
4. As disposições deste Artigo de maneira alguma prejudicarão outros direitos de recurso, se os houver, de qualquer dos dois Governos , ao Tribunal de Justiça Internacional, ou a outro tribunal arbitral, ou o patrocínio e a apresentação de reclamações baseadas em violações invocadas por qualquer dos dois Governos de direitos e deveres que derivem de tratados , de acordos ou de princípios de direito internacional.
ARTIGO X
(Definições )
Nos termos do presente Acordo :
a) Portugal significa o território metropolitano da República Portuguesa (incluindo os Arquipélagos dos Açores e da Madeira) e os demais territórios sob a sua administração abrangendo o Arquipélago de Cabo Verde , a Guiné Portuguesa, a Fortaleza de S. João Baptista de Ajudá , São Tomé e Príncipe , Angola, Moçambique, India Portuguesa (Goa, Damão e Diu) , Macau e a parte portuguesa da ilha de Timor.
b) A expressão "país participante " significa :
( i ) qualquer país que assinou o Relatório da Comissão para a Cooperação Económica Europeia em Paris , a 22 de Setembro de 1947, incluindo os territórios de que assumiu responsabilidade de carácter internacional, e a que tenha sido aplicado o Acordo para a Cooperação Económica celebrado entre esse país e o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, e
(ii) qualquer outro país (incluindo as zonas de ocupação da Alemanha, as áreas sob a administração ou fisca-

62 STAT. ] PORTUGAL- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- SEPT. 28, 1948

lização internacional e o Território Livre de Trieste ou qualquer das suas zonas) situado no todo ou em parte na Europa, com os territórios dele dependentes e sob a sua administração por tanto tempo quanto esse país for parte na Convenção para a Cooperação Económica Europeia e aderir a um programa conjunto de recuperação da Europa que tenha por objectivo os fins do presente Acordo .

ARTIGO XI

(Entrada em vigor, Emendas, Duração)

1. O Presente Acordo entrará em vigor nesta data . Sob reserva do disposto nos parágrafos 2 e 3 deste artigo , vigorará até 30 de Junho de 1953 ; e a não ser que um dos dois Governos tenha notificado of outro por escrito, pelo menos seis meses antes de 30 de Junho de 1953 , da sua intenção de lhe pôr termo na referida data, manter-se-á em vigor atéfindo o prazo de seis meses a contar do dia em que a notificação tenha sido feita.
2. Se, durante a vigência do Acordo, qualquer dos dois Governos considerar que houve alteração fundamental nos princípios básicos em que o mesmo Acordo assenta, notificará por escrito o outro , consultando-se então mutuamente os dois Governos afim de conviremna emenda, modificação ou termo do Acordo . Se três meses depois da dita notificação os dois Governos não tiverem concordado sobre a acção a tomar nessas circunstâncias, qualquer deles poderá notificar por escrito o outro da intenção de por termo ao Acordo . Nesse caso , sob reserva das disposições do parágrafo 3 deste Artigo, o Acordo terminará seis meses após a dita notificação , considerando todavia que o Artigo IV e o parágrafo 3 do Artigo VI se manterão em vigor por um período de dois anos a contar da data da mesma notificação , mas nunca além de 30 de Junho de 1953.
3. Os acordos e os entendimentos complementares negociados em consequência do presente Acordo, podem continuar em vigor para além do termo deste, e a sua duração será a que êles próprios fixarem . O parágrafo 2 do Artigo III manter-se-á em vigor enquanto o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América realizar os pagamentos de garantia a que o mesmo artigo se refere .
4. O presente Acordo poderá ser rectificado em qualquer momento por decisão comum dos dois Governos.
5. O Anexo a este Acordo faz parte integrante dele. 6. O presente Acordo será registado pelo Secretário Geral das Nações Unidas.

EM TESTEMUNHO DO QUE OS representantes dos dois Governos , devidamente autorizados para esse fim, assinaram o presente Acordo .
FEITO em Lisboa 28 de Setembro de 1948 , em duplicado , nas línguas Portuguesa e Inglesa , valendo como autênticos os dois textos.

[SEAL]

JOSÉ CAEIRO DA MATTA

[SEAL]

LINCOLN MACVEAGH

2873

2874

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
ANEXO
Notas interpretativas
1. Fica entendido que as disposições do parágrafo 1 (a) do Artigo II quanto à adopção de medidas relativas ao emprego eficiente dos recursos, abrangem , no que respeita às mercadorias fornecidas nos termos deste Acordo , medidas eficazes para salvaguardar essas mesmas mercadorias e impedir o seu desvio para mercados ou ramos de comércio ilícitos ou irregulares.
2. Fica entendido que as práticas comerciais e os acordos comerciais estabelecidos no parágrafo 3 do Artigo II significam :
a) fixação de preços, termos ou condições a observar nas transacções com terceiros respeitantes à compra, venda ou locação de qualquer produto ;
b) exclusão, atribuição ou divisão de empresas em qualquer mercado territorial ou campo de actividade comercial, distribuição da clientela , ou fixação das quotas de venda ou de compra ;
c) discriminação em prejuízo de determinadas empresas ; d) limitação da produção ou fixação dos seus contingentes ; e) impedimento por via de acordo do desenvolvimento ou da
aplicação de processos técnicos ou de invenções com ou sem patente ; f) extensão do uso dos direitos resultantes de patentes , marcas comerciais ou direitos de autor ou de reprodução concedidos por um dos dois países em matérias que, de acordo com as suas leis e regulamentos, não estejam incluídas no campo de tais garantias ou ainda a produtos ou condições de produção , utilização ou venda que de igual maneira não constituem objecto dessas garantias ; e g) quaisquer outras práticas que os dois Governos acordem em incluir.
3. Fica entendido que o Governo Português não se obriga a agir em casos especiais nos termos do parágrafo 3 do Artigo II senão depois de inquérito ou exame apropriados.
4. Fica entendido que a frase do Artigo IV " tendo em conta as necessidades razoáveis de Portugal no que diz respeito ao consumo interno" deve incluir a manutenção de stocks razoáveis das mercadorias em questão , e que a frase "comércio de exportação " pode abranger as operações de troca . Fica também entendido que os acordos negociados em virtude do Artigo IV poderão, de uma maneira apropriada, incluir normas de consulta em conformidade com os princípios do Artigo 32 da Carta de Havana para uma Organização Internacional de Comércio, no caso dos stocks de mercadorias estarem liquidados .
5. Fica entendido que o Governo Português não terá, no execução do parágrafo 2 (a) do Artigo VI, de fornecer informações pormenorizadas àcerca de projectos de pequena importância ou informações

62 STAT. ] PORTUGAL- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- SEPT. 28, 1948
comerciais ou técnicas de natureza confidencial cuja divulgação poderia atingir interesses comerciais legítimos .
6. Fica entendido que o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América ao fazer as notificações previstas no parágrafo 2 do Artigo VIII terá em consideração a necessidade de restringir quanto possível o número de funcionários em relação aos quais se solicitem privilégios diplomáticos . Fica também entendido que a aplicação pormenorizada do Artigo VIII será objecto, quando necessário, de conversações entre os dois Governos.
7. Fica entendido que se o Governo Português aceitar a jurisdição compulsória do Tribunal de Justiça Internacional, em conformidade com o Artigo 36 do respectivo Estatuto, em termos e condições convenientes, os dois Governos consultar-se-ão com o fim de substituir a segunda frase do parágrafo 1 do Artigo IX pela disposição do teor seguinte: "Fica entendido que o compromisso de cada Governo quanto às reclamações pelo outro patrocinadas em virtude deste parágrafo , é tomado no que diz respeito a cada um dos Governos , sob a autoridade e dentro dos limites marcados pelos termos e condições desse reconhecimento efectivo tal como até à data tem sido atribuído à jurisdição compulsória do Tribunal de Justiça Internacional, de harmonia com o Artigo 36 do Estatuto do Tribunal".
8. Fica entendido que quaisquer acordos que possam ser concluídos nos termos do parágrafo 2 do Artigo IX serão sujeitos a ratificação pelo Senado dos Estados Unidos da América.

2875

68706-52- PT. III- 18

2876

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

July 2, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1820]

Agreement between the United States of America and Austria respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Vienna July 2 , 1948 ; entered into force July 2 , 1948.

The American Minister to the Austrian Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 56 SIR :

AMERICAN LEGATION Vienna, Austria , July 2, 1948

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Austria and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows:

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste , Japan or Southern Korea , the Government of Austria will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most favored nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America set

47 Stat. 1876. 47 Stat. 1899.

forth in the Treaty of Friendship , Commerce and Consular Rights , signed at Vienna, June 19 , 1928 , and agreement supplemental thereto signed at Vienna, June 20 , 1931 , [ ' ] or , for such time as the

Governments of the United States of America and Austria may both

be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6. dated October 30 , 1947 , the provisions of that agreement , as now

or hereafter amended , relating to the most favored nation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this para-

graph relating to the application of the most favored nation provisions of the Treaty of Friendship , Commerce and Consular Rights and agreement supplemental thereto shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most favored nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions .
2. The undertaking in point one above will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most favored nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Austria.

3. The undertakings in points one and two above are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that

1 January 20, 1931 .

62 STAT. ]

AUSTRIA-TRADE- JULY 2, 1948

2877

such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis .
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany, Japan or Southern Korea referred to in point one above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly . So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem , it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point one for the Government of Austria to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of Austria determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry .
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1, 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.

Duration.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . JOHN G. ERHARDT
The Honorable Karl Gruber, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Vienna.

The Austrian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Minister

DER BUNDESMINISTER
FÜR DIE AUSWÄRTIGEN ANGELEGENHEITEN

Wien, den

Vienna, July 2nd 1948. SIR:

I have the honour to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Austria and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or Southern
1 ¹ Department of State publication 3117 .

2878

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Korea, the Government of Austria will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most favored nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America

47 Stat. 1876. 47 Stat. 1899.

set forth in the Treaty of Friendship , Commerce and Consular Rights, signed at Vienna , June 19 , 1928 , and agreement supplemental thereto signed at Vienna, January 20 , 1931 , or for such time as the Govern-

ments of the United States of America and Austria may both be con-

tracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, 61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6. dated October 30 , 1947 , the provisions of that agreement, as now or

hereafter amended , relating to the most favored nation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph

relating to the application of the most favoured nation provisions of the treaty of Friendship , Commerce and Consular Rights and agreement supplemental thereto shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most favoured nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be constructed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions .
2. The undertaking in point one above will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most favoured nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Austria.

3. The undertakings in points one and two above are entered into in the light of absence at the present time of effective tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany, Japan or Southern Korea referred to in point one above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly . So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America

fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point one for the Government of Austria to levy a countervailing duty on imports

of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of Austria determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.

5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in

62 STAT. ]

AUSTRIA- TRADE- JULY 2, 1948

force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration . GRÜBER
Mr. JOHN G. ERHARDT, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Vienna.

2879

2880

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

July 2, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1821]

Agreement between the United States of America and Belgium respecting application of most -favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control . Effected by exchange ofnotes signed at Brussels July 2, 1948; entered into force July 2 , 1948.

TEXT OF NOTES ON MOST ÉCHANGE DE LETTRES EN-

FAVORED NATION TREAT- TRE LES GOUVERNEMENTS

MENT EXCHANGED BE- DES ÉTATS -UNIS D'AMÉRI-

TWEEN THE GOVERN- QUE ET DU ROYAUME DE

MENTS OF THE UNITED BELGIQUE AU SUJET DE

STATES OF AMERICA AND L'EXTENSION DU TRAITE-

OF THE KINGDOM OF BEL- MENT DE LA NATION LA

GIUM

PLUS FAVORISÉE

EXCELLENCY,

EXCELLENCE ,

I have the honor to refer to the J'ai l'honneur de me référer aux

conversations which have recently conversations qui viennent d'avoir taken place between representa- lieu entre les représentants de nos tives of our two Governments deux Gouvernements au sujet de relating to the territorial applica- l'application territoriale des artion of commercial arrangements rangements commerciaux existant

between the United States of entre les Etats-Unis d'Amérique

America and the Kingdom of Bel- et le Royaume de Belgique, et de

gium and to confirm the under- confirmer comme résultat de ces

standing reached as a result of conversations l'accord intervenu

these conversations as follows:

sur les points suivants:

1. For such time as the Govern- 1. Aussi longtemps que le Goument of the United States of vernement des Etats-Unis particiAmerica participates in the occu- pera à l'occupation ou au contrôle pation or control of any areas in de tout territoire en Allemagne Western Germany and in the Free occidentale et dans le territoire de Territory of Trieste, the Govern- la ville libre de Trieste, le Goument of Belgium will apply to the vernement belge appliquera au merchandise trade of such area commerce desdits territoires les the provisions of the General dispositions de l'Accord Général Agreement on Tariffs and Trade sur les Tarifs et le Commerce daté 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6. dated October 30, 1947 , as du 30 octobre 1947 , tel qu'il est ou
now or hereafter amended , relating sera amendé, relatives au traiteto most favored nation treatment . ment de la nation la plus favorisée.
2. The undertaking in point 1 2. L'engagement contracté au above will apply to the merchan- paragraphe ci-dessus ne s'applidise trade of any area referred to quera à toutes zones soumises à therein only for such time and to l'occupation militaire que pendant such extent as such area accords la période et dans la mesure où reciprocal most favored nation lesdites zones accorderont récipro-

62 STAT.]

BELGIUM- TRADE- JULY 2, 1948

treatment to the merchandise quement le traitement de la nation

trade of Belgium .

la plus favorisée au commerce belge .

3. The undertakings in points 3. Les engagements contractés

1 and 2 above are entered into in aux paragraphes 1 et 2 ci-dessus the light of the absence at the sont pris en considération de l'abpresent time of effective or signifi- sence actuelle de barrières doua-

cant tariff barriers to imports into nières effectives aux importations the areas herein concerned . In dans les zones d'occupation ainsi the event that such tariff barriers définies . Dans le cas où de telles

are imposed, it is understood that barrières douanières seraient éta-

such undertakings shall be without blies, il est entendu que lesdits prejudice to the application of the engagements ne préjugeraient en principles set forth in the Havana rien l'application des principes Charter for an International Trade énoncés dans la Charte de La

Organization [ ] relating to the Havane pour une Organisation

reduction of tariffs on a mutually Internationale du Commerce, con-

advantageous basis.

cernant la réduction des tarifs sur

une base mutuellement avan-

tageuse . 4. It is recognised that the 4. Il est reconnu que l'absence absence of a uniform rate of ex- d'un taux de change uniforme pour

change for the currency of the la monnaie des zones d'Allemagne areas in Western Germany, re- occidentale dont question au paraferred to in point 1 above, may graphe 1 ci-dessus, pourrait avoir have the effect of indirectly subsi- l'effet de subventionner indirectedizing the exports of such areas to ment les exportations de ces zones an extent which it would be diffi- d'une façon qu'il serait difficile de cult to calculate exactly. So long calculer exactement. Aussi longas such a condition exists, and if temps qu'une telle circonstance consultation with the Government existera et si des consultations avec of the United States of America le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis

fails to reach an agreed solution to ne permettent pas de résoudre ce the problem, it is understood that problème d'un commun accord, il it would not be inconsistent with est entendu qu'il ne serait pas con-

the undertaking in point 1 for the traire aux engagements pris au Government of Belgium to levy a paragraphe 1 par le Gouvernement countervailing duty on imports of belge, d'imposer un droit équivasuch goods equivalent to the esti- lent sur les importations de ces mated amount of such subsidiza- marchandises pour compenser le

tion, where the Government of montant évalué de ces subventions, Belgium determines that the sub- lorsque le Gouvernement belge désidization is such as to cause or ciderait que la subvention est telle threaten material injury to an qu'elle cause ou qu'elle menace de established domestic industry or causer des dommages matériels à

is such as to prevent or materially une industrie nationale ou qu'elle

retard the establishment of a empêche ou retarde l'établissement

domestic industry.

d'une industrie nationale .

' Department of State publication 3117.

2881

2882 Duration .

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

5. The undertakings in this note 5. Les engagements convenus shall remain in force until January dans cet échange de lettres de1 , 1951 , and unless at least six meureront en vigueur jusqu'au months before January 1 , 1951 , 1er janvier 1951 , et, à moins que either Government shall have six mois au moins avant le 1er

given notice in writing to the other janvier 1951 , l'un ou l'autre des of intention to terminate these Gouvernements ait donné à l'autre

undertakings on that date, they Gouvernement préavis par écrit shall remain in force thereafter de son intention de mettre fin à

until the expiration of six months ces engagements à cette date,

from the date on which such notice ceux-ci demeureront en vigueur

shall have been given.

jusqu'a l'expiration d'un délai de

six mois à partir de la date à laquelle aura été signifiée l'inten-

tion d'y mettre fin .

I avail myself of this occasion Je saisis cette occasion de re-

to renew to Your Excellency the nouveler à Votre Excellence les

assurances of my highest consid- assurances de ma plus haute

eration .

considération.

ALAN G. KIRK [ ']

P. H. SPAAK [ ']

1 Signed at Brussels July 2, 1948, at the time of the signing of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States of America and Belgium (62 Stat., Pt. 2, p. 2173) .

62 STAT. ]

DENMARK- TRADE- JUNE 29, 1948

2883

Agreement between the United States of America and Denmark respecting
the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Copenhagen June 29, 1948; entered into force July 2 , 1948.

June 29, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1822]

The American Ambassador to the Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 179

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Copenhagen, June 29, 1948.

SIR:

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently

taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Denmark and have the honor to confirm

the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America
participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany or the Free Territory of Trieste, the Government of Denmark will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most-favored-nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America set forth in the General Convention of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation signed April 26 , 1826 , as amended by the Convention of April 11 , 1857 , or , for such time as the Governments of the United States of America and Denmark may both be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30, 1947 the provisions of that Agreement, as now or hereafter amended , relating to the most-favored-nation treatment of such trade.
It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the most-favored-nation provisions of the General Convention of Friendship , Commerce and Navigation shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most-favorednation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions .
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Denmark.

8 Stat. 340. 11 Stat. 719.
61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such undertakings

2884

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization ['] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis .

4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the area in western Germany referred to in point 1 above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such area to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly . So long as such a condition exists , and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Denmark to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of Denmark determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or

Entry into duration.

force;

threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note will enter into force on the day on which the Government of Denmark notifies the Government of the

United States of America that this note has been ratified [2] and shall

remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months

before January 1 , 1951 , either government shall have given notice in

writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings

on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been

given .

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JOSIAH MARVEL Jr. His Excellency,
GUSTAV RASMUSSEN, Royal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Copenhagen.

The Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

UDENRIGSMINISTERIET.

Ø. P. I. Journal Nr. 73. D. 139.

SIR,

COPENHAGEN, June 29, 1948.

I have the honour to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between

1 Department of State publication 3117. 2 Entered into force July 2, 1948, the date on which the Danish Chargé d'Affaires ad interim at Washington notified the Department of State of the ratification of this note by Denmark.

62 STAT. ]

DENMARK-TRADE- JUNE 29, 1948

2885

Denmark and the United States of America and have the honour to confirm, subject to ratification, the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America

participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany and the Free Territory of Trieste, the Government of Denmark will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most-favored-nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America set forth in the general Con-

vention of Friendship , Commerce and Navigation signed April 26 ,

1826, as amended by the Convention of April 11 , 1857 , or for such 8 Stat . 340 ; 11 Stat. 719.
time as the Governments of Denmark and the United States of

America may both be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30 , 1947 the provisions of that

61 Stat., Pts . 5 and 6 .

Agreement, as now or hereafter amended , relating to the most-favorednation treatment of such trade.

It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to

the application of the most-favored-nation provisions of the general Convention of Friendship , Commerce and Navigation shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most-favorednation treatment; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be

construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions .

2. The undertaking in point 1 , above , will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Denmark.

3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above , are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade

Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.

4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, referred to in point 1 above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists , and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Denmark to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of Denmark determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or
threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.

2886

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
5. The undertakings in this note will enter into force on the day on which the Government of Denmark notifies the Government of the United States of America that this note has been ratified and shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
GUSTAV RASMUSSEN His Excellency
Ambassador JOSIAH M. MARVEL, Jr. , The Embassy of the United States of America, Copenhagen.

62 STAT. ]

FRANCE- TRADE- JUNE 28, 1948

2887

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Paris June 28, 1948; entered into force June 28 , 1948.

June 28, 1948 (T. I. A. 8. 1823]

The American Ambassador to the French Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 480 EXCELLENCY,

PARIS, June 28, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and the French Republic and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as either the Government of the United States of

America or the Government of the French Republic participates in the occupation of any areas in Western Germany or the Free Territory of Trieste, the other Government will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30 , 1947 , as now or hereafter amended , relating to most-favored-nation treatment .

2. The undertaking in point 1 , above , will apply on the part of the Government of the United States of America or the Government of

the French Republic to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the United States of America or the French Republic , respectively.

3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis .

4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany, referred to in point 1 above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate

exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an

agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of

France to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equiva-

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

1 Department of State publication 3117 .

2888 Duration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
lent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of France determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Please accept , Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JEFFERSON CAFFERY His Excellency
Mr. GEORGES BIDAULT, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Paris.

The French Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

LIBERTÉ ÉGALITÉ FRATERNITÉ RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE

Direction des Affaires Economiques et Financières MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR ,

PARIS, le 28 Juin 1948

Me référant aux conversations qui viennent d'avoir lieu entre nos deux Gouvernements au sujet de l'application territoriale des arrangements commerciaux existant entre la France et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique , j'ai l'honneur de confirmer comme résultat de ces conversations l'accord intervenu sur les points suivants :

I. Aussi longtemps que le Gouvernement de la République Française et le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique participeront à l'occupation ou au contrôle de tous territoires en Allemagne occidentale ou dans le territoire de la ville libre de Trieste, l'autre Gouvernement appliquera au commerce des dits territoires les dispositions de l'Accord général sur les tarifs et le commerce , en date du 30 octobre, telles qu'elles sont ici ou ci-après amendées, relatives au traitement de la nation la plus favorisée .
2. L'engagement contracté par le Gouvernement de la République Française et le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique au paragraphe ci-dessus ne s'appliquera au commerce des zones ci-dessus mentionnées que pendant la période et dans la mesure où lesdites zones accorderont réciproquement le traitement de la nation la plus favorisée au commerce de la France et des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.

62 STAT. ]

FRANCE- TRADE- JUNE 28, 1948

3. Les engagements contractés aux paragraphes 1 et 2 ci-dessus sont pris en considération de l'absence actuelle de barrières douanières effectives et réelles aux importations dans les zones d'occupation militaire ainsi définies . Dans le cas où de telles barrières douanières seraient établies, il est entendu que lesdits engagements ne

préjugeraient en rien l'application des principes énoncés dans la
Charte de La Havane au sujet de la réduction des tarifs sur une base mutuellement avantageuse.

4. Il est reconnu que l'absence d'un taux de change uniforme dans les zones d'Allemagne occidentale pourrait avoir l'effet de subventionner indirectement les exportations de ces zones d'une façon qu'il serait difficile de calculer exactement. Aussi longtemps que ces circonstances existeront et si des consultations avec le Gouverne-

ment des Etats-Unis ne permettent pas de résoudre ce problème d'un commun accord, il est entendu qu'il ne serait pas contraire aux

engagements pris au paragraphe 1 par le Gouvernement français

d'imposer un droit équivalent sur les importations de ces marchan-

dises pour compenser le montant évalué de ces subventions, lorsque

le Gouvernement français déciderait que la subvention est telle

qu'elle cause ou qu'elle menace de causer des dommages matériels

à une industrie nationale ou qu'elle empêche ou retarde l'établissement d'une industrie nationale" .

5. Les engagements convenus dans cet échange de lettres demeure-

ront en vigueur jusqu'au Ier janvier 1951 , et à moins que six mois au moins avant le Ier janvier 1951 l'un ou l'autre des Gouvernements ait donné à l'autre Gouvernement préavis par écrit de son intention de mettre fin à ces engagements à cette date, ceux-ci demeureront

en vigueur jusqu'à l'expiration d'un délai de six mois à partir de la date à laquelle aura été signifiée l'intention d'y mettre fin./ .

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, les assurances de ma très haute considération .

Son Excellence

G BIDAULT

l'Honorable JEFFERSON CAFFERY

Ambassadeur des Etats - Unis d'Amérique à Paris

MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS

Translation LIBERTY - EQUALITY - FRATERNITY FRENCH REPUBLIC

Office ofEconomic and Financial Affairs

PARIS, June 28, 1948

MR. AMBASSADOR :

Referring to the conversations which have recently taken place between our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between France and the United States of

2889

2890

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

America, I have the honor to confirm the agreement reached as a result of these conversations as follows:
1. For such time as the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the United States of America participate in the occupation or the control of any territories in Western Germany or in the territory of the Free City of Trieste, the other Government will apply to the commerce of such areas the provisions of the General 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6. Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30 , as now or hereafter amended , relating to most-favored-nation treatment .
2. The undertaking entered into by the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the United States of America in the foregoing subparagraph will apply to the trade of the aforesaid areas only for such time and to such extent as such areas accord reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to the trade of France and the United States of America.
3. The undertakings entered into in subparagraphs 1 and 2 , above, are adopted in consideration of the absence at the present time of effective or real customs barriers to imports into the military occupation areas thus defined . In the event that such customs barriers are established , it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis .
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange in the areas of Western Germany may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas in a manner which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultations with the Government of the United States fail to reach an agreed solution of this problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertakings entered into in subparagraph 1 by the French Government to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods to compensate the estimated amount of such subsidies, where the French Government decides that the subsidy is such as to
cause or threaten material injury to a national industry or to prevent or retard the establishment of a national industry.
5. The undertakings entered into in this exchange of notes shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other Government of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force until the expiration of a period of six months from the date on which notice of intention to terminate shall have been given.
Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest consideration .
G BIDAULT
His Excellency The Honorable JEFFERSON CAFFERY Ambassador of the United States of America Paris

62 STAT. ] GERMANY : FRENCH ZONE- TRADE- JULY 9, 1948

2891

Agreement between the United States of America and the French Zone of Occupation of Germany respecting the application of most-favorednation treatment to areas under occupation or control . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Paris July 9, 1948; entered into force July 9, 1948.

July 9, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1824]

The American Ambassador to the Chief of the Military Government of the French Zone of Occupation of Germany

PARIS, July 9, 1948 SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and of the French Commander-in-Chief in Germany relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and the French Zone of Occu-
pation of Germany and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows:

1. The United States of America and the French Zone of Occupation of Germany shall each accord to the merchandise trade of the other, immediately and unconditionally, treatment no less favorable than that accorded to the merchandise trade of any third country, provided that departures from the application of such most-favored-nation treatment shall be permitted to the extent that they are in accord with the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30, 1947 , as now or hereafter amended . The provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions .
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply, with respect to the United States of America, to all territory under the sovereignty or authority of the United States of America . Moreover, with regard to any area in Western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan, or Southern Korea in the occupation or control of which the Government of the United States of America participates, such Government shall, to the extent of its legal capacity, exercise its authority in such participation to make the treatment provided for in paragraph 1 applicable by such area to the merchandise trade of the French Zone of Occupation of Germany. That Zone shall accord the treatment provided for in paragraph 1 to the merchandise trade of such area for such time and such extent as such area accords reciprocal mostfavored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the French Zone of Occupation of Germany.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not derogate from such other obligations relative to the matters contained herein as may at

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

2892 Duration .

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
any time be in effect between the United States of America and the French Zone of Occupation of Germany.
4. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either the Government of the United States of America or the French Commander-in-Chief in Germany shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given .
Please accept , Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JEFFERSON CAFFERY General PIERRE KOENIG
Chief ofthe Military Government of the French Zone of Occupation of Germany.

The Chief ofthe Military Government of the French Zone of Occupation of Germany to the American Ambassador

COMMANDANT EN CHEF FRANÇAIS EN ALLEMAGNE
LE GÉNÉRAL

PARIS , le 9 Juillet 1948

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR , Me référant aux conversations qui viennent d'avoir lieu entre mes
Représentants et ceux du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique au sujet de l'application territoriale des accords commerciaux conclus entre la zone française d'occupation en Allemagne et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique, j'ai l'honneur de vous confirmer l'accord intervenu , à la suite de ces négociations , sur les points suivants :
1/La zone française d'occupation en Allemagne et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique accorderont chacun, immédiatement et inconditionnellement, au commerce de l'autre partie un traitement qui ne sera pas moins favorable que celui accordé au commerce de tout pays tiers étant entendu que les dérogations à l'application d'un tel traitement de la nation la plus favorisée seront autorisées à condition qu'elles soient conformes aux exceptions reconnues dans l'Accord Général sur les Tarifs et le Commerce, en date du 30 Octobre 1947 , telles qu'elles sont ici ou ci-après amendées . Les dispositions de ce paragraphe ne seront pas interprétées comme exigeant que l'on se conforme aux
procédures spécifiées dans l'Accord Général en ce qui concerne l'application de ces exceptions.
2 / Les dispositions du paragraphe 1 s'appliqueront, en ce qui concerne les Etats-Unis d'Amérique , à tous les territoires placés sous leur souveraineté ou leur autorité . De plus , en ce qui concerne toute région d'Allemagne occidentale, du Territoire libre de Trieste , du Japon ou de la Corée du Sud , à l'occupation ou contrôle de laquelle participe le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, ce Gouvernement

62 STAT. ] GERMANY : FRENCH ZONE-TRADE-JULY 9, 1948

exercera l'autorité qu'il détient aux termes d'une telle participation pour faire en sorte que le traitement prévu au paragraphe 1 soit accordé par une telle région au commerce de la zone française d'occupation en Allemagne. La zone française d'occupation en Allemagne accordera le traitement prévu au paragraphe 1 au commerce d'une telle région pendant la période et dans la mesure où cette région accordera réciproquement le traitement de la nation la plus favorisée au commerce de la zone française d'occupation en Allemagne.

3 / Les clauses des paragraphes 1 et 2 ne dérogeront pas aux autres obligations concernant les matières ici visées qui pourront à tout moment être en vigueur entre la zone française d'occupation en Allemagne et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique.

4/ Les engagements convenus dans le présent échange de lettres demeureront en vigueur jusqu'au Ier janvier 1951 ; et à moins que, six mois au moins avant le Ier janvier 1951 , soit le Commandant en chef français en Allemagne, soit le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique n'ait donné à l'autre partie préavis par écrit de son intention de mettre à cette date un terme à ses engagements , ceux-ci demeureront en vigueur jusqu'à l'expiration d'un délai de six mois à partir de la date à laquelle une telle notification aura été faite .

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, les assurances renouvelées de ma très haute considération./.
PAUL LEROY-BEAULIEU .

Son Excellence

Pour le Général Koenig

Monsieur JEFFERSON CAFFERY

Ambassadeur des Etats - Unis d'Amerique

Translation
FRENCH COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF IN GERMANY THE GENERAL

PARIS, July 9, 1948

MR. AMBASSADOR :
Referring to the conversations which have just taken place between my representatives and those of the Government of the United States of America concerning the territorial application of the commercial agreements concluded between the French Zone of Occupation in Germany and the United States of America, I have the honor to confirm to you the agreement reached upon the following points as a result of those negotiations :
1. The French Zone of Occupation in Germany and the United States of America will each accord to the trade of the other, immediately and unconditionally, treatment no less favorable than that accorded to the trade of any third country, it being understood that derogations from the application of such most-favored-nation treatment shall be authorized , provided that they are in conformity with

2893

2894

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and 61 Stat. , Pts. 5and6. Trade, dated October 30 , 1947 , as now or hereafter amended . The
provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed as requiring compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply, with regard to the United States of America , to all territories placed under its sovereignty or authority . Furthermore, with regard to any area of Western Germany, of the Free Territory of Trieste , of Japan or Southern Korea in the occupation or control of which the Government of the United States of America participates, that Government will exercise the authority which it holds under the terms of such participation to have the treatment provided for in paragraph 1 accorded by such area to the trade of the French Zone of Occupation in Germany. The French Zone of Occupation in Germany will accord the treatment provided for in paragraph 1 to the trade of such area for such time and
in so far as such area accords most -favored-nation treatment , on a basis of reciprocity, to the trade of the French Zone of Occupation in Germany .
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be without prejudice to such other obligations concerning the matters contemplated herein as may at any time be in force between the French Zone of Occupation in Germany and the United States of America.
4. The commitments made in the present exchange of letters shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 ; and , unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , and, either the French Commander-in-Chief in Germany or the Government of the United States of America gives notice in writing to the other party of intention to terminate the commitments on that date, they shall remain in force until the expiration of a period of six months from the date on which such notification is given.
Accept, Mr. Ambassador , the assurances of my very high consideration.
PAUL LEROY-BEAULIEU. For General Koenig
His Excellency JEFFERSON CAFFERY, Ambassador of the United States of America

62 STAT. ] GERMANY : US/UK ZONES- TRADE- JULY 14, 1948

2895

Agreement between the United States of America and the United States and the United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Berlin July 14, 1948; entered into force July 14 , 1948.

July 14, 1948 (T. I. A. S. 1825]

The Military Governors for the United States and the United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany to the United States Political Adviser for Germany

SIR : I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently
taken place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and of the Military Governors of the United States and United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between those Zones and certain other countries and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. The United States of America shall accord, immediately and unconditionally, to the merchandise trade of the United States/United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany, treatment no less favorable than that accorded to the merchandise trade of any third country.
Similarly, these Zones shall accord, immediately and unconditionally, to the merchandise trade of the United States of America and to the merchandise trade of each other country which has undertaken an obligation to apply most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of these Zones in an exchange of notes with the United States of America, treatment no less favorable than that accorded to the merchandise trade of any third country.
2. Departures from the application of the most- favored-nation treatment provided for in paragraph 1 shall be permitted to the extent that they are in accord with the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply, with respect to the United States of America, to all territory under its sovereignty or authority. Moreover, with regard to any area in the Free Territory of Trieste, in the occupation or control of which the Government of the United States of America participated, the Government of the United States of America shall, to the extent of its legal capacity, exercise its authority in such participation , to make the

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

2896 Duration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

treatment provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 applicable by such area to the merchandise trade of the United States and United Kingdom Zones. Those Zones shall accord the treatment provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 to the merchandise trade of such area for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most- favored- nation treatment to the merchandise trade of those Zones.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not derogate from such other obligations relative to the matters contained herein as may at any time be in effect between the Government of the United States of America and the Military Governors of the United States and United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either the Government of the United States of America or the Military Governors of the United States and United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, these undertakings shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been
given.



[']
LUCIUS D. CLAY General , U. S. Army Military Governor
United States Zone

Irian H.& fobation".
BRIAN H. ROBERTSON General
Military Governor British Zone

The Honorable ROBERT D. MURPHY, United States Political Adviser For Germany.

The United States Political Adviser for Germany to the Military Governors for the United States and the United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany
SIRS : I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently
taken place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and of the Military Governors of the United States and United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between those Zones and certain other countries and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :
' Signed at Berlin July 14, 1948.

62 STAT. ] GERMANY : US/UK ZONES- TRADE- JULY 14, 1948

2897

1. The United States of America shall accord , immediately and un-

conditionally, to the merchandise trade of the United States/United

Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany, treatment no less favorable than that accorded to the merchandise trade of any third coun-

try. Similarly, these Zones shall accord, immediately and unconditionally, to the merchandise trade of the United States of America

and to the merchandise trade of each other country which has undertaken an obligation to apply most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of these Zones in an exchange of notes with the United States of America, treatment no less favorable than that accorded to the merchandise trade of any third country.
2. Departures from the application of the most-favored-nation

Exceptions.

treatment provided for in paragraph 1 shall be permitted to the extent that they are in accord with the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The provisions of

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

this paragraph shall not be construed to require compliance with

the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to

the application of such exceptions. 3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply, with respect
to the United States of America, to all territory under its sov-

Territorial application .

ereignty or authority. Moreover, with regard to any area in the

Free Territory of Trieste, in the occupation or control of which

the Government of the United States of America participated, the Government of the United States of America shall , to the extent

of its legal capacity, exercise its authority in such participation, to make the treatment provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 applicable by such area to the merchandise trade of the United States and

United Kingdom Zones. Those Zones shall accord the treatment provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 to the merchandise trade of such area for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored -nation treatment to the merchandise trade of those Zones.

4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not derogate from such other obligations relative to the matters contained herein as may at any time be in effect between the Government of the United States of America and the Military Governors of the United States and United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1, 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1, 1951 , either the Government of the United States of America or the Military Governors of the United States and United Kingdom Zones of Occupation of Germany shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, these undertakings shall remain in force thereafter until the expira-

Duration.

2898

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
tion of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.

{

BRIAN H. ROBERTSON General Military Governor British Zone
LUCIUS D. CLAY General, U. S. Army Military Governor United States Zone
¹ Signed at Berlin July 14, 1948.

Wendeli ROBERT D. MURFHY
United States Political Adviser for Germany

62 STAT. ]

GREECE-TRADE- JULY 2, 1948

2899

Agreement between the United States of America and Greece respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Athens July 2, 1948; entered into force July 2, 1948.

July 2, 1948 (T. I. A. S. 1826]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 730

AMERICAN EMBASSY Athens, Greece, July 2, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Greece and to confirm the understand-

ing reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or southern Korea, the Government of Greece will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most-favored -nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America set forth in the Provisional Commercial Agreement, signed November 15, 1938, or, for such time as the Governments of the United States of America
and Greece may both be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30, 1947, the provisions of that Agreement, as now or hereafter amended, relating to the most- favorednation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the most- favorednation provisions of the Provisional Commercial Agreement shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of mostfavored-nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored -nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Greece.
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant
68706-52- PT. III-- 19

53 Stat. 2046. 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6.

2900 Duration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned. In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [1 ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea referred to in point 1 above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America
fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Greece to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of Greece determines that the subsidization is
such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this Note shall remain in force until January 1, 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

K. L. RANKIN

His Excellency CONSTANTINE TSALDARIS , Minister of Foreign Affairs, Athens.

Charge d'Affaires ad interim

The Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

ROYAUME DE GRÈCE

MINISTÈRE DES AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

No. 6344

ATHENS, July 2, 1948

SIR : I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently
taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating

' Department of State publication 3117.

62 STAT. ]

GREECE- TRADE- JULY 2, 1948

2901

to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Greece and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America
participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or southern Korea, the Government of Greece will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most- favored-nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America set forth
in the Provisional Commercial Agreement, signed November 15 , 1938, or, for such time as the Governments of the United States of America and Greece may both be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30, 1947, the provisions of that Agreement, as now or hereafter amended , relating to the most-favored-nation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the most-favored-nation provisions of the Provisional Commercial Agreement shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most- favored-nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The undertaking in point 1, above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored -nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Greece.
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2, above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea referred to in point 1 above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Greece to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of Greece determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment ofa domestic industry.

53 Stat. 2046. 61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

2902

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

5. The undertakings in this Note shall remain in force until Janu-

ary 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.

Please accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

C TSALDARIS

Deputy Prime Minister

K. L. RANKIN, Esquire,

and Minister for Foreign Affairs

Charge d'Affaires ad Interim, American Embassy, Athens.

62 STAT. ]

ICELAND- TRADE-JULY 3, 1948

2903

Agreement between the United States of America and Iceland respecting
the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Reykjavik July 3, 1948; entered into force July 3, 1948.

July 3, 1948 [T. I. A. 8. 1827)

The American Minister to the Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

AMERICAN LEGATION

NO. 78 EXCELLENCY :

REYKJAVIK, ICELAND July 3, 1948

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Iceland and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :
1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or southern Korea, the Government of Iceland will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most- favored-nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America set forth in the Trade Agreement between the United States of America and Iceland signed August 27, 1943, or, for such time as the Governments of the United States of America and Iceland may both be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October

57 Stat. 1075

30, 1947, the provisions of that Agreement, as now or hereafter amended, relating to the most- favored-nation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the most-favored-nation provisions of the Trade Agreement signed August 27 , 1943 , shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most- favored-nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to
such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored- nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Iceland.

3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2, above, are entered into in the

ltairgihftf

obfartrhie

rasbtsoenicmepoarttsthientporetsheentarteiamse

of effective or significant herein concerned. In the

2904 Duration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.
event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [1 ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis .
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea referred to in point 1 above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists , and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Iceland to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of Iceland determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment
of a domestic industry. 5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January
1, 1951, and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
RICHARD P. BUTRICK.
His Excellency BJARNI BENEDIKTSSON, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Reykjavik.
' Department of State publication 3117.

62 STAT. ]

ICELAND- TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

The Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Minister

UTANRÍKISRÁDUNEYTID REYKJAVIK

hinn 3. júlí 1948 .

Hattvirti sendiherra ,
Eg leyfi mér að kírskota til viðræðna , em nýlega hafa farið fram milli fulltrúa frá ríkisstjórnum okkar beggja , viðvíkjandi umráðasvæðum , sem viðskiptasamningar milli Islands og Bandarikja Ameriku skulu ná til og staðfesti , að samkvæmt þessum viðræðum hefur samkomulag náðst um eftirfarandi skilning :
1. A meðan ríkisstjórn Bandaríkja Ameriku teku ? þátt í hernámi eða gæzlu einhverra svæða í Vestur- Þýzkalandi , fririkinu Trieste , Japan eða Suður- Koreu mun ríkisstjórn Islands láta ákvæðin um beztukjarameðferð fyrir framleiðsluvörur Bandaríkja Ameríku I viðskiptasamningi , sem gerður var hinn 27. ágúst 1943 milli Islande og Bandaríkja Ameríku , ná til framleiðsluvara slíkra svæða , og á meðan Island og Bandaríki Ameríku kunna bæði að vera samningsaðilar að hinum almenna samningi um tolla og viðskipti , sem gerður var hinn 30. október 1947 , ákvæði þees samnings , er snerta bez tukjarameðferð slíkra vilskipta , eine og þau eru nú eða verður siðar breytt .
Svo er til ætlazt , að loforð það , sem veitt er þessari málsgrein um beitingu beztukjaraákvæða samkvæmt viðskiptasamningnum , sem gerður var hinn 27. ágúst 1943 , skull hð þeim undantekningum , sem viðurkenndar eru í hinum almenna camningi um tolle og viðskipti , þar sem heimilað er að

2905

2906

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
víkja frá beitingu beztuk jarameðferðar . Það er þó áskilið , að ekkert 1 þessum lið skuli skýrt þannig að fylgja beri þeim aðferðum, sem tilteknar eru í almenna samningnum með tilliti til beitingar slíkra undantekninga .
2. Loforðið í 1. málsgrein hér a fremen skal einungis ná til framleiðsluvara þeirra landvæða , sem þar eru talin , jafn lengi og að svo miklu leyti , sem þei landsvæði veita framleiðsluvörum Island gagnkvæma beztuKjarameðferð .
3. Gengið er að loforðum þeim , sem nefnd eru í 1. og 2. málsgrein hér að framan af þvi að engar tollahömlur , sem raunhæfar geta talizt eða þýðingu hafa , eru nú til varðandi innflutning til landsvæða þeirra , sem hér er um að ræða . Nú verða slikar tollahömlur settar og skulu þá téð loforð ekki vera bvi til fyrirstöðu , að beitt verðl meginreglum Havana sáttmálans um alþjóða viðskiptastofnun , varðandi lækkun tolla á gagnkvæmum hagstæðum grundvelli .
4. Það er viðurkennt að vegna þess , að samskonar gengi er ekki á landsvæðum Vestur- Þýzkaland , Japan eða Suður-Koreu , sem nefnd eru I 1. málsgrein , geti það haft þau áhrif að verðbæta óbeinlínis útflutning pescara landsvæða á þann hátt , sem erfitt getur orðið að reikna út nákvæmlega . A meðan slikt ástand ríkir , og ef ekki reynist unnt að leysa málið í samráði við Bandaríki Ameríku , er lítið svo á , að það mundi ekki vera 1 ósamræmi við
loforið 1 1. málsgrein , að ríkisstjórn Island leggi gjald á innflutning slíks varnings , er nemi áætlaðri fjárhæð slíkrar verðuppbótar , og þar sem ríkisstjórn Islands

62 STAT. ]

ICELAND-TRADE JULY 3, 1948

ályktar , að verðuppbótin sé þess eclis að geta valdið eða að hætt sé á , að hún hafi verulegt tjón í för með sér fyrir innlendar atvinnugreinar , sem fyrir hendi eru , eða geti hindrað eða tafið verulega fyrir því , að innlendum atvinnugreinum verði komið á fót .
5. Loforðin í þessu erindi skulu vera í gildi til 1. janúar 1951 , og nema því aðeins að önnur hvor ríkisstjórnin hafi tilkynnt hinni skriflega me sex mánaða fyrirvara fyrir þann dag , að hún óski , að þau skuli ganga úr gildi , þá skulu þau halda gildi sínu pangað til sex mánuðir eru liðnir frá því , að slík tilkynning hefur verið gefin .
Ég leyfi már , háttvirti sendiherra , að votta yður sérstaka virðingu mína .

Herra eendiherra Richard P. Eutrick , Amerieka sendiráðið , Reykjavik ,

Biami Bencehilätsson

2907

68706-52-PT. III-----20

2908

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS REYKJAVIK

MR. MINISTER :

July 3, 1948.

I take the liberty of referring to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments, relating to the territories to which the commercial agreements between Iceland and the United States of America shall apply, and to confirm that as a result of these conversations an understanding has been reached, as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America

participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or southern Korea, the Government of Iceland will apply to the products of such area the provisions relating to the most-favored-nation treatment for

57 Stat. 1075.

products of the United States of America in the trade agreement concluded on August 27 , 1943 between Iceland and the United States of America, or for such time as Iceland and the United States of America

may both be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and6. and Trade, concluded on October 30, 1947, the provisions of that

Agreement, relating to the most- favored-nation treatment of such trade, as they now are or may hereafter be amended.
It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the most-favored-nation provisions according to the Trade Agreement concluded on August 27, 1943, shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, permitting departure from the application of most-favored-nation treatment. It is stipulated, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply only to the products of the areas referred to therein for such time and to such extent

as such areas grant reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to products of Iceland .
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into because no effective or significant tariff barriers now exist with respect to imports into the areas herein concerned. In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, the undertakings will not interfere with the application of the principles of the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization relating to reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis .
4. It is recognized that because there is no uniform rate of exchange in the areas of western Germany, Japan or southern Korea referred to in point 1, that may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition prevails, and if it does not prove possible to solve the problem in consultation with the United States

62 STAT. ]

ICELAND-TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

of America, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertakings in point 1 for the Government of Iceland to levy a duty on the importation of such goods , equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of Iceland determines that the subsidization is such that it may cause or there is danger that it may do material injury in and of itself to established domestic. industries, or can prevent or materially retard the establishment of domestic industries.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1, 1951, and unless six months before that date either Government has announced in writing that it desires that they shall cease to be in effect, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which notification has been given.
I take the liberty, Mr. Minister, of expressing to you my special consideration .
BJARNI BENEDIKTSSON Minister RICHARD P. BUTRICK,
American Legation, Reykjavik.

2909

2910

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

June 28, 1948 (T. I. A. 8. 1828]

Agreement between the United States of America and Ireland respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Dublin June 28, 1948; entered into force June 28, 1948.

The American Minister to the Irish Minister for External Affairs

No. 232 EXCELLENCY :

JUNE 28, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Ireland and to confirm the under-

standing reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of Amer-

ica participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or Southern Korea, the Government of Ireland will extend to the merchandise trade of such

areas the most favored nation treatment for the time being accorded to the merchandise trade of the United States of America . It is

understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the extension of most favored nation treatment shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and 61 Stat. , Pts. 5and 6. Trade permitting departures from the application of most favored nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most favored nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Ireland.

3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2, above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned. In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [1 ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis .
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany, Japan or Southern Korea referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition

' Department of State publication 3117.

62 STAT. ]

IRELAND- TRADE- JUNE 28, 1948

2911

exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution of the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Ireland to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of Ireland determines that the
subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry, or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951, and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
GEORGE A. GARRETT His Excellency
SEAN MACBRIDE,
Minister for External Affairs for the Government of Ireland, Dublin.

Duration.

The Irish Minister for External Affairs to the American Minister

ROINN GNOTHAI EACHTRACHA DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS

EXCELLENCY,

BAILE ÁTHA CLIATH DUBLIN 28th June, 1948.

I have the honour to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Ireland, and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or Southern Korea, the Government of Ireland will extend to the merchandise trade of such areas the most-favoured-nation treatment for the time being accorded to the merchandise trade of the United States of America. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the extension of most-favoured-nation treatment shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of mostfavoured-nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified

2912

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The undertaking in point 1, above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favoured-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Ireland.
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned. In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany, Japan or Southern Korea referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Ireland to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of Ireland determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an
established domestic industry, or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this Note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and, unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration .
SEÁN MACBRIDE
Minister for External Affairs.
His Excellency GEORGE A. GARRETT, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Dublin.

62 STAT. ]

ITALY- TRADE- JUNE 28, 1948

2913

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rome June 28, 1948; entered into force June 28, 1948.

June 28, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1829]

The American Ambassador to the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs

F. O. No. 1445 EXCELLENCY,

ROME, June 28, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Italy and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows:

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America

participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea, the Government of Italy will apply to the merchandise trade of such areas the provisions relating to the most favored nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United

States of America set forth in the Treaty of Friendship , Commerce

and Navigation, signed February 2 , 1948 [ ' ] (and , pending the entry

into force of such Treaty, in the exchange of Notes on commercial

policy of August 14,

1947 ) , or, for such time as the Governments of

61 Stat . , p. 3962.

Pt .

4,

the United States of America and Italy may both be contracting parties

to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30 , 1947 , the provisions of that agreement, as now or hereafter amended, relating to the most favored nation treatment of such trade . It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the most favored nation provisions of the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation shall be subject to the exceptions

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

recognized in the general agreement on tariffs and trade permitting departures from the application of most favored nation treatment, and that the undertaking relating to the exchange of notes on commercial policy shall be subject to such exceptions and to the excep-

tions recognized in the Treaty of Friendship , Commerce and Navigation ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the general agreement with regard to the application of the exceptions in the general agreement.

2. The undertaking in point 1 above will apply to the trade of any
area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most favored nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Italy.

1 Treaties and Other International Acts Series 1965.

2914 Duration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 above are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Habana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis .
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Italy to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization ,
where the Government of Italy determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or to threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry .
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JAMES CLEMENT DUNN
His Excellency Count CARLO SFORZA, Minister of Foreign Affairs , Rome.

The Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador IL MINISTRO DEGLI AFFARI ESTERI
ROMA, 28 Giugno 1948. ECCELLENZA ,
Con lettera in data odierna V. E. ha voluto comunicarmi quanto segue:
"I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the
1 Department of State publication 3117.

62 STAT. ]

ITALY-TRADE- JUNE 28, 1948

2915

United States of America and Italy and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows:

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America

participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea , the Government of Italy will apply to the merchandise trade of such areas the provisions relating to the most favored nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the

United States of America set forth in the Treaty of Friendship,

Commerce and Navigation , signed February 2 , 1948 (and , pending

the entry into force of such Treaty, in the exchange of Notes on commercial policy of August 14 , 1947) , or , for such time as the Governments of the United States of America and Italy may both be

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 3962.

contracting parties to the general agreement on tariffs and trade , dated October 30, 1947 , the provisions of that agreement, as now or

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

hereafter amended , relating to the most favored nation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the most favored nation provisions of the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the general agreement on tariffs and trade permitting departures from the application of most favored nation treatment and that the undertaking relating to the exchange of notes on commercial policy shall be subject to such exceptions and to the exceptions recognized in that Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the general agreement with regard to the application of the exceptions in the general agreement .

2. The undertaking in point 1 above will apply to the trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as suc.h area accords reciprocal most favored nation treatment to the marchandise trade of Italy.

3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 above are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.

4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Italy to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where

2916

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
the Government of Italy determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry. 5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given".
Ho l'onore di informarLa che il Governo italiano è d'accordo su quanto precede .
Mi è grata l'occasione, Eccellenza , per rinnovarLe l'espressione della mia più alta considerazione.
SFORZA A S. E. JAMES CLEMENT DUNN
Ambasciatore degli Stati Uniti d'America Roma

Translation

THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

EXCELLENCY :

ROME, June 28, 1948.

In a letter dated today Your Excellency was so good as to communicate to me the following:

[For the English language text of the note, see p . 2914. ]
I have the honor to inform you that the Italian Government is in accord with the foregoing.
I welcome the occasion , Excellency , to renew to you the assurances of my highest consideration .
SFORZA His Excellency
JAMES CLEMENT DUNN
Ambassador of the United States of America Rome

62 STAT. ]

LUXEMBOURG-TRADE-JULY 3, 1948

2917

Agreement between the United States of America and Luxembourg respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Luxembourg July 3, 1948 ; entered into force July 3, 1948.

July 3, 1948 (T. I. A. S. 1830]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Luxembourg Minister of Foreign Affairs
No. 30 EXCELLENCY :
I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows:

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany and in the Free Territory of Trieste, the Government of Luxembourg will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30, 1947 as now or hereafter amended , relating to mostfavored nation treatment.
2. The undertaking in point one above will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Luxembourg.
3. The undertakings in points one and two above are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned. In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany, referred to in point 1 above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Luxembourg to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

¹ Department of State publication 3117.

2918 Duration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of Luxembourg determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given .
I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
GEORGE P. WALLER LUXEMBOURG, July 3, 1948

The Luxembourg Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

MINISTÈRE DES AFFAIRES ETRANGÈRES

LUXEMBOURG, le 3 juillet 1948.

MONSIEUR LE CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES ,
J'ai l'honneur de me référer aux conversations qui viennent d'avoir lieu entre les représentants de nos deux Gouvernements au sujet de l'application territoriale des arrangements commerciaux existant entre le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique, et de confirmer comme résultat de ces conversations l'accord intervenu sur les points suivants :

I. Aussi longtemps que le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis participera à l'occupation ou au contrôle de tout territoire en Allemagne occidentale et dans le territoire de la ville libre de Trieste , le Gouvernement luxembourgeois appliquera au commerce desdits territoires les dispositions de l'Accord Général sur les Tarifs et le Commerce daté du 30 octobre 1947 , tel qu'il est ou sera amendé, relatives au traitement de la nation la plus favorisée.
II. L'engagement contracté au paragraphe ci-dessus ne s'appliquera à toutes zones soumises à l'occupation militaire que pendant la période et dans la mesure où lesdites zones accorderont réciproquement le traitement de la nation la plus favorisée au commerce luxembourgeois.
III. Les engagements contractés aux paragraphes I et II ci-dessus sont pris en considération de l'absence actuelle de barrières douanières effectives aux importations dans les zones d'occupation ainsi définies. Dans le cas où de telles barrières douanières seraient établies, il est entendu que lesdits engagements ne préjugeraient en rien l'application des principes énoncés dans la Charte de La Havane pour une Organisation Internationale du Commerce, concernant la réduction des tarifs sur une base mutuellement avantageuse.
IV. Il est reconnu que l'absence d'un taux de change uniforme pour la monnaie des zones d'Allemagne occidentale dont question au

62 STAT. ]

LUXEMBOURG -TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

paragraphe I ci-dessus, pourrait avoir l'effet de subventionner indirectement les exportations de ces zones d'une façon qu'il serait difficile de calculer exactement. Aussi longtemps qu'une telle circonstance existera et si des consultations avec le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis ne permettent pas de résoudre ce problème d'un commun accord, il est entendu qu'il ne serait pas contraire aux engagements pris au paragraphe I par le Gouvernement luxembourgeois , d'imposer un droit équivalent sur les importations de ces marchandises pour compenser le montant évalué de ces subventions , lorsque le Gouvernement luxembourgeois déciderait que la subvention est telle qu'elle cause ou qu'elle menace de causer des dommages matériels à une industrie nationale ou qu'elle empêche ou retarde l'établissement d'une industrie nationale .
V. Les engagements convenus dans cet échange de lettres demeureront en vigueur jusqu'au Ier janvier 1951 , et, à moins que six mois au moins avant le 1er janvier 1951 , l'un ou l'autre des Gouvernements ait donné à l'autre Gouvernement préavis par écrit de son intention de mettre fin à ces engagements à cette date, ceux-ci demeureront en vigueur jusqu'à l'expiration d'un délai de six mois à partir de la date à laquelle aura été signifiée l'intention d'y mettre fin.

Je saisis cette occasion, Monsieur le Chargé d'Affaires , pour vous renouveler les assurances de ma considération la plus distinguée.
Pr. le Ministre des Affaires Etrangères, Le Ministre d'Etat,
Président du Gouvernement,

Monsieur GEORGE P. WALLER ,

P. DUPONG

Chargé d'Affaires a. i. des Etats-Unis d'Amérique à Luxembourg.-

2919

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS Mr. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

LUXEMBOURG, July 3, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have just taken place between the representatives of our two Governments on the subject of the territorial application of the trade agreements in force between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the United States of America, and to confirm, as a result of those conversations , the agreement reached on the following points :

I. As long as the United States Government participates in the occupation or control of any territory in Western Germany or the territory of the free city of Trieste, the Luxembourg Government will apply to trade with the said territories the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade dated October 30, 1947, as it now stands or as it may be amended , relative to most-favored-nation treatment.

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

2920

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

II. The commitment undertaken in the above paragraph shall apply to all zones subjected to military occupation only as long as and to the extent that the aforesaid zones grant , reciprocally, most-favorednation treatment to trade with Luxembourg.
III. The commitments undertaken in paragraphs I and II hereinabove have been assumed in consideration of the present absence of customs barriers applying to imports into the occupation zones thus defined . In the event such customs barriers are established , it is understood that the aforesaid commitments shall not prejudice in any way the application of the principles expressed in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization concerning the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis .
IV. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the zones of Western Germany mentioned in paragraph I hereinabove may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing exports from those zones in a manner which may be difficult to estimate exactly. As long as such a condition exists , and if consultations with the United States Government do not make it possible for this problem to be solved by common agreement , it is understood that it would not be contrary to the obligations assumed in paragraph I by the Luxembourg Government to impose an equivalent duty on imports of such goods in order to make up for the appraised amount
of such subsidies, in case the Luxembourg Government should decide that the subsidy is such as to cause or threaten to cause material damage to a national industry, or such as to prevent or delay the establishment of a national industry.
V. The agreements reached in this exchange of letters shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and , unless one of the Governments gives to the other Government, at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , written notice of its intention to terminate these commitments on that date, the said commitments shall remain in force until the expiration of a period of six months after the date on which the intention to terminate them has been notified .

I avail myself of this occasion , Mr. Chargé d'Affaires, to renew to you the assurances of my most distinguished consideration .

For the Minister of Foreign Affairs,

Prime Minister,

MR. GEORGE P. WALLER,

President ofthe Government, P. DUPONG

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of The United States of America, Luxembourg

62 STAT.]

NETHERLANDS - TRADE JULY 2, 1948

2921

Agreement between the United States of America and the Netherlands respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at The Hague July 2 , 1948 ; entered into force July 2 , 1948.

July 2, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1831

The American Ambassador to the Netherlands Minister of Foreign Affairs

THE HAGUE, July 2 , 1948. SIR :

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and the Kingdom of the Netherlands and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows:

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, the Government of the Netherlands will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30, 1947 , as now or hereafter amended , relating to mostfavored-nation treatment.
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the Netherlands .
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above , are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ ] relating to the reduction of tariff's on a mutually advantageous basis .

61 Stat., Pts. 5and 6.

4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsiziding the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists , and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of the Netherlands to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the
1 Department of State publication 3117.

2922 Duration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of the Netherlands determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and , unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Please accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
HERMAN BENJAMIN BARUCH His Excellency
Baron C. G. W. H. VAN BOETZELAER VAN OOSTERHOUT, Minister of Foreign Affairs, The Hague.

The Netherlands Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

THE HAGUE , July 2 , 1948. SIR,
I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellency's Note of to-day's date, reading as follows:

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have re-

cently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and the Kingdom of the Netherlands and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows:

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, the Government
of the Netherlands will apply to the merchandise trade of such area
the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ,
dated October 30 , 1947 , as now or hereafter amended , relating to most-favored-nation treatment . ("
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchan-
dise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the Netherlands . ""
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above , are entered into
in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or signifi-
cant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned .
In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood

62 STAT. ]

NETHERLANDS- TRADE-JULY 2 , 1948

that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis. "
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, referred to in
point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to
calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America

fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of the Netherlands to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of the Netherlands determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten

material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry. ""
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until
January 1 , 1951 , and, unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951, either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date,
they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.

I have the honour to inform your Excellency that the Netherlands Government agree with the contents of the above Note.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to your Excellency the

assurances of my highest consideration.

W. v. BOETZELAER .

His Excellency

Dr. HERMAN B. BARUCH,

Ambassador Extraordinary

and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, The Hague.

2923

2924

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

July 3, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1832]

Agreement between the United States of America and Norway respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Oslo July 3, 1948; entered into force July 3, 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 607. EXCELLENCY :

OSLO, July 3, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between the representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Norway and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :
1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or southern Korea, the Royal Norwegian Government will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6. Trade, dated October 30, 1947, as now or hereafter amended, relating to the most-favored -nation treatment.
2. The undertaking in point 1, above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Norway.
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2, above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it it understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [1 ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea referred to in point 1, above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America

1 ¹ Department of State publication 3117.

62 STAT. ]

NORWAY-TRADE-JULY 3, 1948

2925

fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Royal Norwegian Government to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Royal Norwegian Government determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1, 1951, and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
C. ULRICK BAY His Excellency
Monsieur HALVARD M. LANGE,
Royal Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs , Oslo.

Duration.

2926

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

The Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

DetKgl.Ulenriksdepartement

Oslo , 3. juli 1948 .

Herr Ambassadör , Jeg har den ære å henvise til de samtaler som nylig
har funnet sted mellom representanter for våre to regjeringer vedrörende den territoriale anvendelse av visse handelsbestemmelser gjeldende mellom Norge og Amerikas Forente Stater , og å bekrefte fölgende forståelse som en nådde frem til under de nevnte samtaler :
1. Den kgl . norske regjering vil så lenge som Amerikas Forente Staters regjering deltar i okkupasjonen eller kontrollen av noe område i Vest -Tyskland , det frie område Trieste , Japan eller Syd- Korea, gi varehandelen med vedkommende område bestevilkårsbehandling i samsvar med bestemmelsene i Generalavtalen om tolltariffer og handel , datert 30. oktober 1947 , enten i sin nåværende eller i sin fremtidige endrede ordlyd .
2. De forpliktelser som fölger av punkt 1 ovenfor , skal gjelde for vedkommende områdes varehandel bare for så lang tid og i den utstrekning som vedkommende område tilstår Norges varehandel gjensidig bestevilkårsbehandling .
3. De forpliktelser som fölger av punkt 1 og 2 ovenfor , har partene påtatt seg i lys av det faktum at det for tiden ikke finnes effektiv eller nevneverdig.tollbeskyttelse for importen i vedkommende område . For det tilfelle at slik tollbeskyttelse blir innfört , er det underforstått at disse forpliktelser ikke

62 STAT. ]

NORWAY- TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

skal være til hinder for anvendelse av de grunnsetninger som er fastlagt i Havanacharteret for en internasjonal handelsorganisasjon når det gjelder reduksjon av tollsatser på en gjensidig fordelaktig basis .
4. Det erkjennes at mangelen av en ensartet valutakurs for de områder i Vest -Tyskland , Japan og Syd -Korea sum er omhandlet i punkt 1. ovenfor , kan medföre en indirekte subsidiering av eksporten fra slike områder i en grad som det vil være vanskelig å fastslå nöyaktig . Så lenge en slik situasjon er til stede, og hvis rådföring med Amerikas Forente Staters regjering ikke förer til en lösning av problemet som begge parter er enige om, er det underforstått at det ikke skal være uforenlig med forpliktelsene i punkt 1. om den kgl . norske regjering pålegger en særskilt avgift ( countervailing duty) på importen av slike varer tilsvarende det antatte subsidieringsbelöp , når den kgl . norske regjering finner at subsidieringen er slik at den forårsaker eller truer med å forårsake alvorlig skade på en innarbeidet innenlandsk industri eller er av den art at den forhindrer eller alvorlig forsinker oppbyggingen av en innenlandsk industri .
5. De forpliktelser som fölger av denne note , skal forbli i kraft imtil 1. januar 1951 , og hvis ikke en av regjeringene minst 6 måneder för 1. januar 1951 har gitt den annen skriftlig underretning om at den har til hensikt å bringe til opphör disse forpliktelser på vedkommende dag, skal de forbli i kraft inntil utlöpet av 6 måneder fra den dag da slik underretning blir gitt .
Motta , herr Ambassadör , forsikringen om min mest utmerkede höyaktelse .
Halword 4. Lange
H. E. HERR CHARLES ULRICK BAY, Amerikas Forente Staters Ambassadör, etc. , etc. , etc., Oslo.

2927

2928

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Translation

THE ROYAL DEPARTMENT FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS

MR. AMBASSADOR :

OSLO, July 3, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which recently took place between representatives of our two Governments regarding the territorial application of certain trade regulations in force between

Norway and the United States of America, and to confirm the following agreement reached during the said conversations :

1. As long as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any territory in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan, or South Korea, the Royal Norwegian Government will accord trade with such territory mostfavored-nation treatment in conformity with the provisions of the 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6. General Agreement of October 30 , 1947 on Tariffs and Trade, whether it be in its present text or in a future, amended text.
2. The obligations under Point 1 above shall apply to the trade of such territory only for such a length of time and to such an extent as the said territory accords the trade of Norway reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment.
3. The obligations under Points 1 and 2 above have been assumed by the Parties in view of the fact that at present there is no effective or appreciable customs protection for imports in such territory. In case such customs protection is introduced , it is understood that these obligations shall not constitute any obstacle to the application of the principles laid down in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization when it is a question of reducing customs tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is realized that the lack of a uniform rate of exchange for the territories in western Germany, Japan, and South Korea, referred to under Point 1 above may result in an indirect subsidizing of exports from such territories to an extent which it will be difficult to deter-
mine exactly. As long as such a situation prevails , and if consultations with the Government of the United States of America do not
lead to a solution of the problem agreeable to both Parties, it is understood that it shall not be held incompatible with the obligations under Point 1 if the Royal Norwegian Government imposes a special duty (countervailing duty) on the importation of such goods, corresponding to the estimated amount of the subsidy whenever the Royal Norwegian Government finds that the subsidizing is such as to cause or threaten to cause serious damage to an established domestic industry or is of such nature as to prevent or seriously delay the building up of a domestic industry.
The obligations under this note shall remain in force until January 1, 1951 and if neither Government shall have notified the other Government in writing at least six months before January 1 , 1951 that

1

62 STAT. ]

NORWAY- TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

it intends to terminate these obligations on that date, they shall remain in force until six months after the date on which such notification is given.
Accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurance of my highest consideration.
HALVARD M. LANGE
His Excellency CHARLES ULRICK BAY, Ambassador of the United States of America, etc. etc. etc., Oslo.

2929

2930

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

July 3, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1833]

Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Stockholm July 3, 1948 ; entered into force July 3, 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Swedish Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 109 EXCELLENCY :

STOCKHOLM, July 3, 1948

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating

to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and Sweden and to confirm the understand-

ing reached as a result of these conversations as follows : 1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America

participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany or the Free Territory of Trieste, the Government of Sweden will

apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most-favored-nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the

49 Stat . 3755.

United States of America set forth in the Trade Agreement between the United States of America and Sweden signed May 25, 1935

Ante, p. 2647.

( including, for its duration, the memoranda as to its application exchanged June 12, 1948 ) , or, for such time as the Governments of the United States of America and Sweden may both be contracting parties

to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30,

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

1947, the provisions of that Agreement, as now or hereafter amended, relating to the most-favored -nation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to

the application of the most-favored-nation provisions of the Trade Agreement of 1935 shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most- favored-nation treatment ; provided that noth-

ing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions .

2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such

extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Sweden.

3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2, above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned. In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such

undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the

62 STAT.]

SWEDEN- TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

2931

principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ 1 ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany referred to in point 1, above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an
agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Sweden to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of Sweden determines that the subsidization is such as to
cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
H. FREEMAN MATTHEWS His Excellency
ÖSTEN UNDÉN ,
Minister ofForeign Affairs, Stockholm .

Duration.

The Swedish Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

KUNGL. UTRIKES DEPARTEMENTET

STOCKHOLM , July 3, 1948.

MR. AMBASSADOR,
I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between Sweden and the United States of America and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany or the Free Territory of Trieste, the Government of Sweden

' Department of State publication 3117. 68706-52- PT. III- 21

2932

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most- favored -nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America set forth in the Trade Agreement

49 Stat. 3755. Ante, p. 2647.

between Sweden and the United States of America signed May 25 , 1935 (including, for its duration, the memoranda as to its application exchanged June 12 , 1948 ) , or, for such time as the Governments

of Sweden and the United States of America may both be contracting

parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October

61 Stat ., Pts. 5 and 6. 30, 1947, the provisions of that Agreement, as now or hereafter

amended, relating to the most- favored-nation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to

the application of the most- favored -nation provisions of the Trade Agreement of 1935 shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most-favored-nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most - favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of Sweden.

3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.

4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem , it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of Sweden to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of Sweden determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threat-

en material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall

62 STAT. ]

SWEDEN-TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given .
Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
ÖSTEN UNDÉN
Mr. H. FREEMAN MATTHEWS, Ambassador of the United States of America, etc., etc., etc. Stockholm .

2933

2934

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

July 4, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1834]

Agreement between the United States of America and Turkey respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ankara July 4, 1948; entered into force July 13 , 1948 .

The American Ambassador to the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EXCELLENCY :

Ankara, Turkey July 4, 1948

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and the Republic of Turkey and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America

participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or southern Korea, the

Government of the Republic of Turkey will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most- favored-nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America

54 Stat. 1870.

set forth in the Trade Agreement between the United States of America and Turkey, signed April 1, 1939, or, for such time as the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of

Turkey may both be contracting parties to the General Agreement 61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6. on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30, 1947 , the provisions of that

Agreement, as now or hereafter amended , relating to the most-favorednation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertak-

ing in this paragraph relating to the application of the most-favored-

nation provisions of the Trade Agreement shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most- favored-nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed

to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most -favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the Republic of Turkey. In this connection, the Government of the United States of America will seek arrangements whereby such areas will accord most-favored-nation

treatment (including most-favored-nation treatment in the application

62 STAT.]

TURKEY-TRADE- JULY 4, 1948

2935

of quantitative restrictions in accordance with the principles of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ) to the merchandise trade of Turkey.
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2, above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ 1 ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach any agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of the Republic of Turkey to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of the Republic of Turkey determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this Note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given . [ 2 ]
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
EDWIN C. WILSON His Excellency
NECMEDDIN SADAK
Minister of Foreign Affairs Ankara.

Duration.

' Department of State publication 3117. * Entered into force July 13, 1948 , the date on which the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave notice to the American Embassy at Ankara of ratification of the notes by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.

2936

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

The Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

TÜRKYE CUMHURYET DILER BAKANLII

Ankara , 4 Temmuz 1948

Ekselans ,
Türkiye Cumhuriyeti ile Amerika Birleik Devletleri arasindaki ticarî tertiplerin âtide mezkûr sahalar dahilinde tatbikine müteallik olarak iki Hükûmetimiz Mümessilleri beyninde ahiren cereyan etmi bulunan mukâlemelere atif yapmak ve ibu mukâlemeler neticesinde varilmi olan anlamayi aaida teyid etmekle erefyabim :
1 - Amerika Birleik Devletleri Garbî Almanya , Triyeste Serbest Toprai , Japonya yahud Cenubi Kore' · deki herhangi bir sahada igale veya mürakabeye iti · rak eyledii müddetçe Türkiye Cumhuriyeti Hükümeti mezkûr sahalarin emtia ticaretine , Türkiye ile Amerika Birleik Devletleri arasinda 1 Nisan 1939-da imza edil-
mi olan Ticaret Anlamasinda muharrer , Amerika Birle ik Devletleri emtia ticaretinin en fazla müsaadeye mazhar milletinki muamelesini görmesine müteallik hu · kümleri ve yahud , Türkiye Cumhuriyeti ve Amerika Birleik Devletleri Hükümetleri , 30 Ekim 1947 tarihli Gimrük Tarifeleri ve Ticaret hakkinda Umumî Anlamaya âkid taraflar bulunduklari müddetçe , mevzuubahs anlamanin , mezkûr ticaretin en fazla müsaadeye mazhar milletinki

62 STAT. ]

TURKEY- TRADE- JULY 4, 1948

muamelesini görmesine dair olan ve imdiki veya bilâhara tadil edilecek anlamanin hükümlerini tatbik eyliyecektir . Ticaret Anlamasinin en fazla müsaadeye mazhar millet muamelesi hükümlerinin tatbikine dair bu fikrada mevcud teahhüdün Gümrük Tarifeleri ve Ticaret Umumi Anlamasinda muharrer olup en fazla müsaadeye mazhar millet muamelesinin ademi tatbikine cevaz veren istisnalara tâbi olacai kabul edilmektedir ; u kadar ki bu cümlede hiç bir ey , mezkûr istisnalarin tatbiki hakkinda Umumî Anlamada tasrih edilen muameleye ittibal gerektirdii eklinde tefsir olunmayacaktir .
2 - Yukaridaki 1 numarali fikrada muharrer taahhüt ; ancak mezkûr fikrada adi geçen herhangi bir saha , Türkiye Cumhuriyeti emtia ticaretine mütekabilen en fazla müsaadeye mazhar millet muamelesi tatbik ettii müddetçe ve ettii nisbette o sahanin emtia ticareti hakkinda hüküm ifade edecektir. Bu hususda , Amerika Birleik Devletleri Hükümeti ( Tarifeler ve Ticarete dair Genel Anlamanin prensipleri gereince kemmi tahdidatin tatbikinde en ziyade müsaadeye mazhar devlet muamelesi dahil olmak üzere ) bu gibi mintakalarin Türkiye emtia ticaretine en ziyade müsadeye mazhar devlet muamelesini temin etmeleri için icabini arayacakdir .
3 - Yukaridaki 1 ve 2 numarali fikralarda muharrer taahhütlere , burada mevzuubahs olan sahalara ithalat yap · mak hususunda elyeva tesirli veya ehemmiyetli gümrük manialari mevcud bulunmadii gözönünde tutularak girilmektedir . Bu gibi gümrük manialari vazolunduu takdirde mezkûr taahhütlerin, bir milletlerarasi ticaret tekilâti tesisine müteallik Havana Beyannamesinde zikrolunan ve gümrük tarifelerini mütekabil menfaat esasina müsteniden tenkis et mekten bâhis bulunan umdelerin tatbikiní haleldar etmemesi kabul olunmaktadir .
4 · Yukaridaki 1 numarali fikrada mevzuubahs Gar-

2937

2938

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES. [ 62 STAT.

bî Almanya , Japonya veya Cenubî Kore sahalarinda geçen para için yeknasak bir kambiyo rayici olmamasinin, bu

Sahalarin ihracatina , dakik surette hesaplanmasi mükil

olan , bir bilvasita prim verme tesirini yapabilecei takdir edilmektedir . Böyle bir hal devam ettii müddet-

çe ve Amerika Birleik Devletleri Hükümetiyle yapilacak

müavere , meseleye , tarafeynin muvafakat edecei , bir

hai çaresi temin edemezse mevzuubahs prim vermenin Türkiye'de müesses sanayii maddeten zarardide ettiini ve-

ya etmek tehlikesi gösterdiini ve yahud millî sanayiin tesisine mani olacaini veya teessüsünü maddeten gecik-

tireceini Türkiye Cumhuriyeti Hükümeti tesbit eyledii

takdirde verilen primin muhammen mikdarini karilayacak derecede bir muvazene vergisini bu gibi emtia üzerine tarheylemesinin 1 numarali fikradaki taahhütle müteba-

yin dümedii kabul olunur . 5- Bu Notadaki taahhütler 1 Ocak 1951 tarihine *
kadar meriyette kalacak ve her iki Hükümetten biri di-

erine bu taahhütleri o tarihte hitama erdirmek niyetinde olduunu 1 Ocak 1951 -den en az 6 ay evvel tahriren

bildirmedii takdirde mezkûr taahhütler 1 Ocak 1951 -den sonra vaki olabilecek tahrirî bir fesih ihbari tarihin

den itibaren 6 ay geçinceye kadar meriyette kalacakdir .

Yüksek saygilarimin lûtfen kabulünü rica ederim ,

Ekselans .
Ekselans Edwin C. WILSONietleri Amerika Birleik Devletleri Büyük Elçisi . Ankara

.

u al od

N YTa

62 STAT. ]

TURKEY- TRADE- JULY 4, 1948

Translation

REPUBLIC OF TURKEY MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

ANKARA, July 4, 1948

2939

EXCELLENCY :
I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and the Republic of Turkey and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :
1. For such time as the Government of the United States of America participates in the occupation or control of any areas in western Germany, the Free Territory of Trieste, Japan or Southern Korea , the Government of the Republic of Turkey will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions relating to the most- favored-nation treatment of the merchandise trade of the United States of America
set forth in the Trade Agreement between the United States of America and Turkey, signed April 1 , 1939 , or, for such time as the Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Turkey may both be contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30 , 1947 , the provisions of that Agreement , as now or hereafter amended, relating to the most-favored -nation treatment of such trade. It is understood that the undertaking in this paragraph relating to the application of the most-favored -nation provisions of the Trade Agreement shall be subject to the exceptions recognized in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade permitting departures from the application of most-favored -nation treatment ; provided that nothing in this sentence shall be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General Agreement with regard to the application of such exceptions.
2. The undertaking in point 1 , above, will apply to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most- favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the Republic of Turkey. In this connection, the Government of the United States of America will seek arrangements whereby such areas will accord most-favored-nation treat-
ment (including most-favored-nation treatment in the application of quantitative restrictions in accordance with the principles of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ) to the merchandise trade of Turkey.
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade

54 Stat. 1870. 61 Stat., Pts. 5and

68706-52- PT. III -22

2940

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in western Germany, Japan or southern Korea referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach any agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of the Republic of Turkey to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of the Republic of Turkey determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this Note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
N. SADAK His Excellency
EDWIN C. WILSON, Ambassador of the United States of America. Ankara

62 STAT. ]

UNITED KINGDOM- TRADE- JULY 6, 1948

2941

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at London July 6 , 1948 ; entered into force July 6, 1948.

July 6, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1835]

The American Ambassador to the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No : 2582 SIR :

London, July 6, 1948

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently

taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the United States of America and the United Kingdom and to con-

firm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as either the Government of the United States of America or the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany or the Free Territory of Trieste, the other Government will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated October 30, 1947, as now or hereafter amended , relating to most-favorednation treatment.

2. The undertaking in paragraph 1 , above, will apply on the part of the Government of the United States of America or the Govern-
ment of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most- favored nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the United States of America or the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, respectively.
3. The undertakings in paragraphs 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . If such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ 1 ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.

61 Stat., Pts . 5 and 6.

'Department of State publication 3117.

2942 Duration.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany referred to in paragraph 1 above may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in paragraph 1 for the Government of the United Kingdom to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where the Government of the United Kingdom determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1 , 1951, and unless at least six months before January 1, 1951, either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . LEWIS W. DOUGLAS
The Right Honorable ERNEST BEVIN, M. P. , Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, The Foreign Office, Whitehall, S.W.1.

The British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

FOREIGN OFFICE, S. W. 1.

YOUR EXCELLENCY,

6th July, 1948.

I have the honour to refer to the conversations which have recently

taken place between representatives of our two Governments relating

to the territorial application of commercial arrangements between the

United States of America and the United Kingdom and to confirm

the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :

1. For such time as either the Government of the United States

of America or the Government of the United Kingdom of Great

Britain and Northern Ireland participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany or the Free Territory of Tri-

61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6.

este, the other Government will apply to the merchandise trade of such area the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated the 30th October, 1947 , as now or hereafter amended, relating to most-favoured-nation treatment.

62 STAT.]

UNITED KINGDOM- TRADE- JULY 6, 1948

2. The undertaking in paragraph 1, above, will apply on the part of the Government of the United States of America or the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most- favourednation treatment to the merchandise trade of the United States of
America or the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, respectively.
3. The Undertakings in paragraphs 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . If such tariff barriers are imposed, it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organisation relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognised that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany referred to in paragraph 1 above may have the effect of indirectly subsidising the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate
exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an
agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in paragraph 1 for the Government of the United Kingdom to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidisation , where the Government of the United Kingdom determines that the subsidisation is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until the 1st January, 1951 , and unless at least six months before 1st January, 1951, either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given .
I have the honour to be, with the highest consideration, Your Excellency's obedient Servant , ERNEST BEVIN
His Excellency The Honourable LEWIS W. Douglas ,
etc., etc., etc., 1, Grosvenor Square, W. 1.

2943

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION--JULY 3, 1948

2945

Agreement between the United States of America and China respecting economic cooperation under Public Law 472 , 80th Congress . Signed at Nanking July 3, 1948 ; entered into force July 3, 1948.

July 3, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1837]

ECONOMIC AID AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA

2946

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ECONOMIC AID AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF CHINA

PREAMBLE. The Government of the United States of America and the Govern-
ment of the Republic of China :

Considering that it is the policy of the Government of the United
States of America to extend economic assistance to the people and the Government of China in accordance with the provisions of the China 62 Stat . , Pt. 1 , p. 158. Aid Act of 1948 ; and

Considering that it is the policy of the Government of China to undertake a vigorous program of self help in order to create more stable economic conditions in China, and to improve commercial relations with other countries ;

Have agreed as follows :

ARTICLE I.

Assistance requested y China.

The Government of the United States of America undertakes to

assist China, by making available to the Government of China or to

any person, agency or organization designated by the latter Govern-

ment such assistance as may be requested by it and approved by the Government of the United States of America. The Government of the United States of America will furnish this assistance under the

provisions, and subject to all of the terms , limitations and conditions , 62 Stat. , Pt. 1, p . 158. of the China Aid Act of 1948 ( other than Section 404 ( b ) thereof) ,

acts amendatory and supplementary thereto and appropriation acts thereunder, and will make available to the Government of China only such commodities, services and other assistance as are authorized to aStuisopneonfsaisosnisotratnecrem.i- be made available by such acts. The Government of the United States of America may suspend or terminate at any time the assistance under this Article.

General undertakings by China.
Post, p. 2954.

ARTICLE II.
1. In order to achieve the maximum improvement of economic conditions through the employment of assistance received from the Government of the United States of America , the Government of China undertakes
(a ) to adopt or maintain the measures necessary to ensure efficient and practical use of economic resources available to it, including

( 1 ) such measures as may be necessary to ensure that the commodities and services obtained with assistance furnished un-

der this Agreement are used for purposes consistent with this Agreement ;

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948

2947

(2 ) to the extent practicable, measures to locate, identify and put into appropriate use in furtherance of its efforts to improve economic conditions, in China, assets, and earnings therefrom which belong to nationals of China and which are situated within the United States of America, its territories or possessions. Nothing in this clause imposes any obligation on the Government of the United States of America to assist in carrying out such measures or on the Government of China to dispose of such assets ;

(b) to promote the development of industrial and agricultural production on a sound economic basis ;
(c) to initiate and maintain financial , monetary, budgetary and administrative measures necessary for the creation of more stable currency conditions and for the promotion of production and marketing of goods for domestic consumption and export ; and
(d) to cooperate with other countries in facilitating and stimulating an increasing interchange of goods and services with other countries and in reducing public and private barriers to trade with other countries.

2. The Government of China will take the measures which it

deems appropriate to prevent, on the part of private or public commercial enterprises, business practices or business arrangements affecting international trade which have the effect of interfering with the purposes and policies of this Agreement.

ARTICLE III.

1. The Government of China undertakes to make all practicable

Improvement of commercial relations

efforts to improve commercial relations with other countries, includ- with other countries.

ing measures to improve the conditions affecting the carrying on of

foreign trade by private enterprises in China.

2. The Government of China, in carrying out the provisions of

paragraph 1 of this Article, will, among other measures, administer

such import and exchange controls as are, or may be, made necessary

by the exigencies of China's international balance of payments and the foreign exchange resources available to the Government of China , in a uniform, fair and equitable manner.
3. The Government of the United States of America and the Government of China will consult, upon the request of either, regard-

ing any matter relating to the application of the provisions of this Article.

ARTICLE IV.

1. All commodities provided by the Government of the United

Processing and distribution of commodi-

States of America pursuant to this Agreement shall be processed and ties.

distributed by commercial enterprises or by private or Chinese Gov-

ernment agencies, and in accordance with terms and conditions, agreed upon from time to time between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of China.
2. The Government of China, in consultation with representatives of the United States of America, will take all appropriate

2948

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

steps designed to achieve fair and equitable distribution within the

areas under its control of commodities provided by the Government

of the United States of America pursuant to this Agreement and of similar commodities imported into China with other funds or produced locally. To the extent that circumstances and supply availa-

bilities permit, a distribution and price control system shall be inaugurated or maintained in urban centers of China with the intent of

Pricing of U. S. supplies.

insuring that all classes of the population shall receive a fair share of imported or indigenously produced essential civilian supplies. In permitting expendable commodities made available under this Agreement to be utilized in support of the Chinese efforts to improve consumption and price controls, it is understood that the Government of the United States of America takes no responsibility for the success of these urban programs.
3. The prices at which supplies furnished by the United States of America pursuant to this Agreement will be sold in China shall be agreed upon between the Government of the United States of

America and the Government of China.

ARTICLE V.

Local currency. Post, p. 2953.

1. The provisions of this Article shall apply only with respect to assistance which may be furnished by the Government of the

United States of America on a grant basis pursuant to this Agree-

Special account; deposits.

ment.
2. The Government of China agrees to establish a special account in the Central Bank of China in the name of the Government of China

(hereinafter called the special account) and to make deposits in Chinese currency to this account as follows :

(a ) The unencumbered balance at the close of business on the day of the signature of this Agreement in that special account in the Central Bank of China in the name of the Government of China established pursuant to the Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of China made on
p.63137-4S.tat . , Pt . 4 , October 27, 1947, and any further sums which may from time to time be required by such Agreement to be deposited in that special account. It is understood that subsection ( E) of Section 114 of the
62 Stat. , Pt. 1 , p . 150. Foreign Assistance Act of 1948 constitutes the approval and determination of the Government of the United States of America with
respect to the disposition of such balance referred to in that Agreement, and
(b) The unencumbered balances of the deposits made by the Government of China pursuant to the exchange of notes between the two Governments dated April 30, 1948. [1]
(c) Amounts commensurate with the indicated dollar cost to the Government of the United States of America of commodities, services and technical information ( including any costs of processing, storing, transporting, repairing or other services incident thereto) made available to China on a grant basis pursuant to this Agreement

¹Department of State Bulletin, May 16, 1948, p. 647.

62 STAT. ] CHINA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION--JULY 3, 1948

2949

less, however, the amount of deposits made pursuant to the exchange of notes referred to in sub-paragraph (b ) . The Government of the United States of America shall from time to time notify the Government of China of the indicated dollar cost of any such commodities, services and technical information and the Government of China

will deposit in the special account at such times as may be specified by the Government of the United States of America a commensurate amount of Chinese currency computed at a rate of exchange to be agreed upon between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of China. The Government of China will upon the request of the Government of the United States of America

make advance deposits in the special account which shall be credited against subsequent notifications pursuant to this paragraph.

3. The Government of the United States of America will from time to time notify the Government of China of its requirements for administrative expenditures in Chinese currency within China incident to operations under the China Aid Act of 1948 and the Govern-

Special account; payments.
U. S. administrative expenditures.
62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 158.

ment of China will thereupon make such sums available out of any

balances in the special account in the manner requested by the Government of the United States of America in the notification.

4. The Government of China will further make such sums of

Chinese currency available out of any balances in the special account

as may be required to cover : A. Expenditures required to carry out the purposes of the Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in
China as provided for by Section 407 of the China Aid Act of 1948 ;

Rural reconstruction.
62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 159.

and B. Costs ( including port, storage, handling and similar charges ) of transportation from any point of entry in China to the consignee's designated point of delivery in China of such relief supplies and packages as are referred to in Article VII.
5. The Government of China shall dispose of any remaining balance in the special account only for such purposes as may be agreed from time to time with the Government of the United States of

Transportation of relief supplies.
Disposition of balance; purposes.

America including in particular : A. Sterilization as a measure of monetary and financial stabilization ; B. Expenditures incident to the

stimulation of productive activity and the development of new sources

of wealth including materials which may be required in the United States of America because of deficiencies or potential deficiencies in the resources of the United States of America ; C. Expenditures upon

projects or programs the external costs of which are being covered

in whole or in part by assistance rendered by the Government of the United States of America or by loans from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ; or D. Expenditures upon un-

completed relief or work relief projects undertaken pursuant to the Agreement between the Governments of the United States of America and of China of October 27, 1947.
6. The Government of China will maintain the value in terms
of United States dollar equivalent of such amount of the special account as is : A. Indicated by the Government of the United States

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 3374.
Maintenance ofU.S. value of designated
amounts.

2950

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

of America as necessary for administrative expenditures referred to

in paragraph 3 of this Article ; B. Required for the purposes of

paragraph 4 of this Article ; and C. Agreed between the two Govern-

ments to be necessary to defray the expenses in Chinese currency asso-

ciated with reconstruction projects or programs the external costs of

which are met in whole or in part by assistance rendered by the Gov-

ernment of the United States of America pursuant to the Agreement.

The Government of China will carry out this provision by depositing

such additional amounts of Chinese currency as the Government of the

Unencumbered balance; disposition
bsuybjUe.ctS. Ctoongarpepsrso.val

United States of America may from time to time determine after consultation with the Government of China.
7. Any unencumbered balance remaining in the special account on April 3 , 1949 , shall be disposed of within China for such purposes as may hereafter be agreed between the Governments of the United

States of America and of China, it being understood that the agree-

ment of the United States of America shall be subject to approval

by act or joint resolution of the Congress of the United States of America .

ARTICLE VI .

Access to materials.

1. The Government of China will facilitate the transfer to the

Post, p. 2980.

United States of America for stockpiling or other purposes of ma-

terials originating in China which are required by the United States of America as a result of deficiencies or potential deficiencies in its own resources upon such reasonable terms of sale, exchange, barter or otherwise and in such quantities and for such period of time as may

be agreed to between the Governments of the United States of America

and of China after due regard for the reasonable requirements of China for domestic use and commercial export of such materials. The Government of China will take such specific measures as may

be necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph . The Government of China will, when so requested by the Government of the United States of America , enter into negotiations for detailed arrangements necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph.
2. The Government of China will, when so requested by the Government of the United States of America , negotiate such arrange-

62 Stat. , Pt. 1 , p . 152.

ments as are appropriate to carry out the provisions of paragraph ( 9) of subsection 115 (B) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1948 which relates to the development and transfer of materials required by the United States of America.

3. The Government of China , when so requested by the Government of the United States of America , will cooperate , wherever appropriate, to further the objectives of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article in respect of materials originating outside of China.

Relief packages.

ARTICLE VII. The Government of China will, when so requested by the Gov-
ernment of the United States of America , enter into negotiations for agreements ( including the provisions of duty free treatment under

62 STAT.] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- JULY 3, 1948

2951

appropriate safeguards ) to facilitate the entry into China of supplies of relief goods donated to or purchased by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies and of relief packages originating in the United States of America and consigned to individuals residing in China.

ARTICLE VIII . 1. The two Governments will, upon the request of either of them, Consultation and transmitta 1ofinfor-
consult regarding any matter relating to the application of this mation. Agreement or to operations or arrangements carried out pursuant to this Agreement.
2. The Government of China will communicate to the Government of the United States of America in a form and at intervals to be
indicated by the latter after consultation with the Government of China :

(a) detailed information regarding projects, programs and measures proposed or adopted by the Government of China to carry out the provisions of this Agreement ;
(b) full statements of operations under this Agreement, including a statement of the use of funds, commodities and services received thereunder, such statements to be made in each calendar quarter ;
(c) information regarding its economy and any other relevant information which the Government of the United States of America may need to determine the nature and scope of operations, and to evaluate the effectiveness of assistance furnished or contemplated under this Agreement.

Post, p. 2954.

3. The Government of China will assist the Government of the United States of America to obtain information relating to the mate-
rials originating in China referred to in Article VI which is necessary to the formulation and execution of the arrangements provided for in that Article.

ARTICLE IX.
Information regard1. The Government of China will keep the people of China fully ing progress. informed of the progress achieved by the Government of China in im-

plementing the undertakings contained in this Agreement designed to achieve more stable economic conditions in China , and it will pro-

vide continuously information to the people of China regarding the nature and extent of assistance furnished pursuant to this Agreement. It will make such information available to the media of public informa-

tion and will take practicable steps to ensure that appropriate facilities are provided for the dissemination of such information.

2. The Government of the United States of America will encourage the dissemination of such information and will make it available to the media of public information.
3. The Government of China will make public in China in each
calendar quarter full statements of operations under this Agreement, including information as to the uses of funds , commodities and services received.

Quarterly statements of operations.

2952

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE X.

Special Mission.

1. The Government of China agrees to receive a Special Mission for Economic Cooperation which will discharge the responsibilities of the Government of the United States of America in China under this

Special Mission as part of U. S. Embassy.
Post, p. 2954.

Agreement .
2. The Government of China will, upon appropriate notification from the Ambassador of the United States of America in China, con-

sider the Special Mission and its personnel as part of the Embassy of the United States of America in China for the purposes of enjoying

Joint Committee.

the privileges and immunities accorded to that Embassy and its personnel of comparable rank. The Government of China will further ac-

cord appropriate courtesies to the members and staff of the Joint Com-

mittee on Foreign Economic Cooperation of the Congress of the United

States of America and will grant them the facilities and assistance nec-

essary to the effective performance of their responsibilities. 3. The Government of China will extend full cooperation to the

Special Mission and to the members and staff of the Joint Committee.

Such cooperation shall include the provision of all information and

facilities necessary to the observation and review of the carrying out of this Agreement, including the use of assistance furnished under it.

ARTICLE XI.

Settlement of claims of nationals.

1. The Governments of the United States of America and of

China agree to submit to the decision of the International Court of

Justice any claim espoused by either Government on behalf of one of its nationals against the other Government for compensation for damage arising as a consequence of governmental measures (other than measures concerning enemy property or interests ) taken after April

3, 1948 by the other Government and affecting property or interests of such national including contracts with or concessions granted by duly authorized authorities of such other Government. It is understood

that the undertaking of each Government in respect of claims espoused

59 Stat. 1060.

by the other Government pursuant to this paragraph is made in the case of each Government under the authority of and is limited by the terms and conditions of such effective recognition as it has heretofore given to the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice under Article 36 of the Statute of the Court. The

provisions of this paragraph shall be in all respects without prejudice to other rights of access, if any, of either Government to the Inter-

national Court of Justice or to the espousal and presentation of claims based upon alleged violations by either Government of rights and

Post, p. 2979.

duties arising under treaties , agreements or principles of international law.
2. The Governments of the United States of America and of

China further agree that such claims may be referred in lieu of the Court to any arbitral tribunal mutually agreed upon.
3. It is further understood that neither Government will espouse a claim pursuant to this Article unless the national concerned has exhausted the remedies available to him in the administrative and

judicial tribunals of the country in which the claim exists.

62 STAT. ] CHINA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION- JULY 3, 1948

2953

ARTICLE XII.
1. This agreement shall become effective on this day's date. It shall remain in force until June 30, 1950 and, unless at least six months

Effective date; duration; termination.

before June 30, 1950, either Government shall have given the other

notice in writing of intention to terminate the Agreement on that date, it shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given. Article V shall remain in effect until all the sums in the currency of China

Ante, p. 2948.

required to be disposed of in accordance with its own terms have been disposed of as provided in such Article.
2. This Agreement may be amended at any time by agreement between the two Governments.

Amendment.

3. The Annex to this Agreement forms an integral part thereof. 4. This Agreement shall be registered with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

Registration .

In witness whereof the respective representatives duly authorized for the purpose have signed the present Agreement.
Done at Nanking in duplicate in the English and Chinese languages, both texts authentic, this third day of July 1948, corresponding to the third day of the seventh month of the thirty-seventh year of the Republic of China.
&Leighton StuartT For the Government of the United States of America.

Authentic texts.

'J. Leighton Stuart. 'Wang Shih-chieh.

The WarpStitechristi.
For the Government of the Republic of China .

2954

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ANNEX .

Interpretative notes. Ante, p. 2946.

1. It is understood that the requirements of paragraph 1 (a) of Article II, relating to the adoption of measures for the efficient use of resources would include, with respect to commodities furnished

under the Agreement , effective measures for safeguarding such com-

modities and for preventing their diversion to illegal or irregular markets or channels of trade.

Ante, p. 2951.

2. It is understood that the Government of China will not be requested, under paragraph 2 ( a) of Article VIII to furnish detailed

information about minor projects or confidential commercial or technical information the disclosure of which would injure legitimate commercial interests.
3. It is understood that the Government of the United States of

Ante, p. 2952.

America in making the notifications referred to in paragraph 2 of Article X would bear in mind the desirability of restricting, so far as

practicable, the number of officials for whom full diplomatic privileges would be requested . It is also understood that the detailed application of Article X would , when necessary, be the subject of intergovernmental discussion .

NANKING, July 3, 1948

[]

' J. Leighton Stuart. 2 Wang Shih-chieh.

Weng Chick.ch.M

2955



62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- JULY 3, 1948

                                        
                             

            

           

   

    



'J. Leighton Stuart. 2 Wang Shih-chieh.

    

2956

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

      

      8      
  

   .   

 [2] 
' J. Leighton Stuart. * Wang Shih-chieh.

2957

62 STAT. ] CHINA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948

 
          -  0   
     0            
                 
              
               
        ,                   ,
1

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

        
         

   


        



  

    ,

 

   

2958

2959

+1$

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION--JULY 3, 1948

           1 

                    

             

              ,                   

                             

            

   ( 

     

                







INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

 

   :

        

    ,

           

 

   

 

     

 

            

  

     





    

  , 

 

   

   

  



    



2960

2961

  
  
 

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- JULY 3, 1948





    

 

        

    

 

  

     



    
   ,   

  

 

      

   , 

2962

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT. 

     

         

 

  

2963

62 STAT. ] CHINA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION--JULY 3, 1948

 
                            
,          
                 
                 
    
u                  
               1 
                                   

68706-52- PT. III- 23



INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.  

       

   

  

 

   



  

  

   

2964

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948

2965

    ,

 

        

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

                                                                                                     11             ,             

2966

2967

  X   X          
      ,

62 STAT. ] CHINA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948

            
             ,          
                
                     
                      
       

            ,  

              

    

         

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

      

   

    -      

                       (  

       )

         

               

  

             

   , 

        

            

2968

2969

 
       

 

62 STAT. ] CHINA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948 ( )

 

      ,

 (       

      

   

   



      

  



          

    

- 

    

 

   

       

         

 -      

 

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

                          :         
                                                   
                 

2970

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948

2971

        

   



68706-52- PT. III- 24

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

                            
                                                                                                   

2972

2973



62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948

                            
                                     ,
                    

   


( ) ( L)   




INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

 ,

u 

!

   

       

 

              

      

   

       

   

   

  

2974

2975

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948

         "

 

              ,
  

-                      ,

          

          

:           

          

    

  

:

 


INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

 

        

    



    

       ()  ) ,



    ,

   











 

 

2976

2977

    

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- JULY 3, 1948

 ,

    1
      

  

        
          ,    :

2978

 

 

   

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948

2979

The American Ambassador to the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 491 EXCELLENCY :

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Nanking, July 3, 1948

I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently

taken place between representatives of our two Governments on the

conclusion of a Bilateral Agreement relative to the American Aid to

China, and to confirm the understanding that any agreements which

might be arrived at pursuant to Paragraph 2 of Article XI would be subject to ratification by the Senate of the United States of America.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration.

J.L.S.

Ante, p. 2952.

His Excellency Dr. WANG SHIH-CHIEH ,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nanking.

The Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador 

The Ministry ofForeign Affairs

Republic of China

EXCELLENCY :

NANKING, July 3, 1948.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your Excellency's Note No. 491 reading as follows :

"I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments on the conclusion of a Bilateral Agreement relative to the American Aid to China, and to confirm the understanding that any agreements which might be arrived at pursuant to Paragraph 2 of Article XI would be subject to ratification by the Senate of the United States of America.
"Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. "

Ante ,p. 2952.

2980

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
I have the honor to confirm the above understanding. Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
WANG SHIH-CHIEH His Excellency
Dr. J. LEIGHTON STUART, Ambassador of the United States of America to China, Nanking.

Ante, p. 2946. Ante, p. 2950.

The American Embassy to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs

No. 560

AIDE- MEMOIRE

With reference to Aide-Memoires numbered 530 , 531 and 532 [ ¹] of July 19, 1948, and subsequent discussions of the subjects treated therein between Dr. Tung Ling of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and an officer of the Embassy, the Embassy reported to the Department of State the views of the Ministry as presented. In deference to the views of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the amendments requested in the Economic Aid Agreement and the annexed Note are unnecessary, the Department of State has now authorized the Embassy to withdraw its request for such amendments.
Apart from the question of amendment, however, the Department of State has requested the Embassy to bring to the attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the importance attached by the United States Government to the omission from paragraph 1 of Article VI of the language cited in the Embassy's Aide-Memoire No. 532 of July 19. [1] Accordingly the Embassy would appreciate confirmation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it concurs in the interpretation of the United States Government that "specific measures as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph", which sentence appears in paragraph 1 of Article VI of the Agreement, comprehends the promotion of the increased production of such materials in China and the removal of any hindrance to the transfer of such materials to the United States of America.
NANKING, July 27, 1948

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] CHINA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-JULY 3, 1948 The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy


2981

TheMinistry ofForeign Affairs

of China Republic of

AIDE-MEMOIRE

Reference is made to the Embassy's Aide-Memoire numbered 560 of July 27, 1948, which states, inter alia, that, according to the view of the United States Government, " specific measures as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph", provided in Paragraph 1 of Article VI of the Sino-American Bilateral Aid Agreement of July 3 , 1948 , comprehends the promotion of the increased production of such materials in China and the removal of any hindrance to the transfer of such materials to the United States of America.
In reply, the Ministry wishes to inform the Embassy that the Chinese Government concurs with the United States Government in the interpretation as stated above.
NANKING, July 28, 1948.

Ante, p. 2950.

2982

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

July 3, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1839]

Agreement between the United States of America and China respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas under occupation or control. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Nanking July 3, 1948; entered into force July 3, 1948.

Note in the English and Chinese Languages From the American Ambassador to the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY Nanking, July 3, 1948
EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently
taken place between representatives of our two Governments on the conclusion of a bilateral agreement relative to the American Aid to China and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :
1. For such time as either the Government of the United States of America or the Government of the Republic of China participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany or the Free Territory of Trieste, the other Government will apply to the merchandise trade of such areas the provisions of the General Agree61 Stat ., Pts. 5 and 6. ment on Tariffs and Trade dated October 30 , 1947, as now or hereafter amended , relating to most favored nation treatment.
2. The undertaking in point 1 above will apply on the part of the Government of the United States of America or the Government of China to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most favored nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the United States of America or China respectively.
3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth by the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization [ 1 ] relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly.
¹ Department of State publication 3117.

62 STAT. ]

CHINA- TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

2983

As long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of China to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of China determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1, 1951, and unless at least six months before January 1 , 1951 , either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given.

Duration.

Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
J. LEIGHTON STUART

His Excellency Dr. WANG SHIH - CHIEH ,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nanking.





   

     :  


 


INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

            , 

   



      

                  









  

 +

         

  

   

2  

       

   

                     

 



  
G        

 



   



         

    

.    

      





 

2984

2985

   
    

CHINA-TRADE-JULY 3, 1948

   

           

        

   ,  

     

 

 

  

       

           

  

  


   



              

A           

   

". *        

     

      

 

2       

  I
 

            

  

     

      ,  

62 STAT. ]

  

 
        

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

.  









          .   ,

              







      

.    









    

       

    

              

  

             



   
  
  
       

  

2986

2987

     



(  )

CHINA- TRADE-JULY 3, 1948

        

62 STAT. ]

 

                         ,        :

2988

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Note in the Chinese and English Languages From the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

     :

    

















 



..

 

 

                      , 

 

2989

+.





  

     ,       





+

 

        

     













CHINA- TRADE-JULY 3, 1948

      

       , 



 















    

    



        ,       ,

  

62 STAT. ] 

            ,      











     

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

    

 



     ,  

       















       
 

   



             ·    



    ,          , 



   

;



·        

                

2990

2991







  :     ,        · 











        













·     





· 











  

I  







CHINA-TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

     

      



F









     

       

 

   

  ,          



    ]                           

62 STAT. ]

 



INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.    

                             
C   ;   ,          ,     ·
       

2992

62 STAT. ]

CHINA-TRADE-JULY 3, 1948

















 

 

+

   

1:1 111

   
    
1 Wang Shih-chieh .

  
F [1]

 



2993

2994

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. 

TheMinistry ofForeign Affairs

Republic of Chinc

EXCELLENCY,

NANKING, July 3, 1948

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's Note reading as follows :

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

"I have the honor to refer to the conversations which have recently taken place between representatives of our two Governments on the conclusion of a bilateral agreement relative to the American Aid to China and to confirm the understanding reached as a result of these conversations as follows :
"1. For such time as either the Government of the United States of America or the Government of the Republic of China participates in the occupation or control of any areas in Western Germany or the Free Territory of Trieste, the other Government will apply to the merchandise trade of such areas the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade dated October 30, 1947, as now or hereafter amended, relating to most favored nation treatment.
"2. The undertaking in point 1 above will apply on the part of the Government of the United States of America or the Government of China to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most favored nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the United States of America or China respectively.
"3. The undertakings in points 1 and 2 , above, are entered into in the light of the absence at the present time of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas herein concerned . In the event that such tariff barriers are imposed , it is understood that such undertakings shall be without prejudice to the application of the principles set forth by the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis.
"4. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany referred to in point 1 , above, may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such area to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. As long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the Government of the United States of America fails to reach an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in point 1 for the Government of China to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization, where the Government of China determines that the

62 STAT. ]

CHINA-TRADE- JULY 3, 1948

subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry.
"5. The undertakings in this note shall remain in force until January 1, 1951 , and unless at least six months before January 1, 1951, either Government shall have given notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate these undertakings on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter until the expiration of six months from the date on which such notice shall have been given."
I have the honor to confirm the above understandings. Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

¤

3
[]1 Wang Thit chish

His Excellency, Dr. J. LEIGHTON STUART, Ambassador Extraordinary & Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of China, Nanking.
'Wang Shih-chieh.

2995

68706-52- PT. III- -25

2996

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

2

October 21, 1948 [T. I. A. 8. 1840]

Arrangement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting copyright. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington October 21 , 1948; entered into force October
21, 1948.

The Philippine Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

EMBASSY OF THE PHILIPPINES WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

October 21 , 1948

In accordance with instructions from my Government, I have the

honor to invite your attention to section 10 (b ) of the Philippine Copy-

right Law (Act No. 3134 of the Philippine Legislature) under which, as amended by Republic Act No. 76 , the benefits of the aforementioned

Act No. 3134 may be extended to the work of a proprietor who is not a citizen of the Philippines only when the foreign state or nation of

which such proprietor is a citizen or subject grants , either by treaty, convention, agreement, or law, to citizens of the Philippines the benefit

of copyright protection substantially equal to the protection secured to such foreign proprietor under that Act.

Since section 10 (b) of the Philippine Copyright Law is similar to paragraph (b) , section 9 of Title 17 of the United States Code, codified

and enacted into positive law by the Act of Congress , approved July

6117 SUt.atS.., CP.t,. S1.upp.p65. 5I., § 9 (b).
62 Stat., Pt. 2, p. 1568.

30 , 1947 (61 Stat . 652) , it is the desire of my Government to enter into reciprocal copyright relations with the Government of the United States of America whereby the benefits of the copyright laws

of our respective countries are extended to the citizens of the other

country. With a view to assuring the Government of the United States of

America of reciprocal benefits for authors and proprietors of the United States , the President of the Republic of the Philippines has

issued a proclamation , a copy of which is enclosed herewith , proclaiming that citizens of the United States are entitled on and after

this date to obtain copyright for their works in the Republic of the

6117 SUt.atS.., CP.t,. S1 u, pp.p6.5I3,. $ 1 (e) .

Philippines, including rights similar to those provided by section 1 (e) of the above-mentioned Title 17 of the United States Code. This
proclamation comes into effect today, the date on which it is under-

stood that the President of the United States of America shall pro-

claim that citizens of the Republic of the Philippines are entitled to all the benefits of the aforementioned Title 17 of the United States

Code, including the provisions of section 1 (e ) thereof, but excepting

the provisions embodied in the second paragraph of section 9 (b) of that Title regarding the extension of time for fulfilling copyright conditions and formalities.

62 STAT.]

PHILIPPINES COPYRIGHT-OCT. 21, 1948

The Government of the Republic of the Philippines is prepared, if this proposal is acceptable to the Government of the United States of

America, to regard the present note and Your Excellency's reply to the same effect as establishing reciprocal copyright relations between the two Governments on this day.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my distinguished consideration.

Enclosure :

J M ELIZALDE

Copy of Proclamation His Excellency
ROBERT A. LOVETT

Acting Secretary of State

2997

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE PHILIPPINES

PROCLAMATION NO . 99

EXTENDING COPYRIGHT PRIVILEGES AND PROTECTION TO CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES.

WHEREAS, it is provided by an Act of the Philippine Legislature, Act No. 3134 , entitled "An Act to Protect Intellectual Property" , otherwise known as the Copyright Law of the Philippines, approved March 6, 1924 , as amended by Republic Act No. 76 , approved October 21 , 1946 , that the copyright secured by the Act shall extend to the work of a proprietor, who is not a citizen of the Philippines , only upon certain conditions set forth in Section 10 of the Act, to wit:

"(a) When an alien proprietor shall be domiciled within the

Philippine Islands at the time he makes application for copyright ; or

"(b) When the foreign state or nation of which such proprietor is a citizen or subject grants , either by treaty, convention, agree-

ment, or law, to citizens of (the United States or of) the Philippine Islands the benefit of copyright protection substantially equal to the protection secured to such foreign proprietor under this Act ; or
"(c) When such foreign state or nation is a party to an international agreement which provides for reciprocity in the granting of copyright and that (the United States or) the Philippine Islands

may become a party thereto . "

WHEREAS, the Act of Congress , approved July 30, 1947 , ( 61 Stat. 652) entitled "An Act to Codify and Enact into Positive Law Title 17 of the United States Code, entitled ' Copyright' ", provides that the copyright secured by the said Act and the benefits under Section 1 (e)

17 U. S. C., Supp. I. 62 Stat., Pt. 1, pp. 202, 1009; Pt . 2, p. 1688 .

thereof, as to which special conditions are imposed , shall extend to

the work of an author or proprietor who is a citizen or subject of a

foreign state or nation, only upon certain conditions set forth in

Section 9 of the Act, to wit :

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 655. 17 U. S. O., Supp. I, $ 9.

2998

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

"(a) When an alien author or proprietor shall be domiciled within the United States at the time of the first publication of his work ; or
"(b) When the foreign state or nation of which such author or proprietor is a citizen or subject grants, either by treaty, convention, agreement, or law, to citizens of the United States the benefit of copyright on substantially the same basis as to its own citizens, or copyright protection, substantially equal to the protection secured to such foreign author under this title or by treaty ; or when such foreign state or nation is a party to an international agreement which provides for reciprocity in the granting of copyright, by the terms of which agreement the United States may, at its pleasure, become a party thereto ."

WHEREAS, Satisfactory official assurances have been received that, on and after October 21 , 1948, pursuant to the aforementioned Act of $ 117etUs.eq8.. O., Supp . L, Congress, approved July 30 , 1947 , ( 61 Stat . 652 ) , citizens of the Philip106029;StPatt..,2P,tp.1. ,1p5p68. 2. 02, pines are entitled to obtain copyright protection for their works in the United States which is substantially equal to the protection afforded by the copyright laws of the Philippines and which is afforded on substantially the same basis as to the citizens of the United States ;
Now, THEREFORE, I, ELPIDIO QUIRINO, President of the Philippines, do hereby declare and proclaim :

That on and after October 21 , 1948 , the conditions specified in section 10 (b) of the aforementioned Act No. 3134 of the Philippine Legislature of March 6 , 1924, do exist and are fulfilled in respect of the citizens of the United States and that on and after October 21 , 1948, citizens of the United States shall be entitled to all the benefits of the said Act ;
Provided, That the enjoyment by any work of the rights and benefits conferred by the said Act shall be conditional upon compliance with the requirements and formalities prescribed with respect to such works by the copyright laws of the Philippines.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the Republic of the Philippines to be affixed .
Done in the City of Manila, this 21st day of October, in the year of Our Lord, nineteen hundred and forty-eight, and of the Independence of the Philippines, the third.

[SEAL]

ELPIDIO QUIRINO President of the Philippines

By the President : EMILIO ABELLO
Executive Secretary

62 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES COPYRIGHT- OCT. 21, 1948

2999

The Acting Secretary of State to the Philippine Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

October 21 , 1948

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of today's date in which you refer to section 10 (b) of the Philippine Copyright Law (Act No. 3134 of the Philippine Legislature) under which, as amended by Republic Act No. 76 , the benefits of the aforementioned Act No. 3134 may be extended to the work of a proprietor who is not a citizen of the Philippines only when the foreign state or nation of which such proprietor is a citizen or subject grants, either by treaty, convention, agreement, or law, to citizens of the Philippines the benefit of copyright protection substantially equal to the protection secured to such foreign proprietor under that Act.
You express the desire of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, since section 10 (b) of the Philippine Copyright Law is similar to paragraph (b) , section 9 of Title 17 of the United States Code, codified and enacted into positive law by the Act of Congress approved July 30 , 1947 (61 Stat . 652) , to enter into reciprocal copyright relations with the Government of the United States of America whereby the benefits of the copyright laws of our respective countries are extended to the citizens of the other country.
You add that with a view to assuring the Government of the United States of America of reciprocal benefits for authors and proprietors of the United States, the President of the Republic of the Philippines has issued a proclamation , a copy of which accompanies your note under acknowledgment, proclaiming that citizens of the United States are entitled on and after this date to obtain copyright for their works in the Republic of the Philippines, including rights

61 Stat., Pt.1, p. 655. 17 U. 8. C., Supp. I, 62(bSt)a. t., Pt. 2, p. 1568.
Ante, p. 2997.

similar to those provided by section 1 (e ) of the aforementioned Title 17 of the United States Code .
You state that this proclamation comes into effect today, the date on which it is understood that the President of the United States of

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 653. 17 U. 8. O., Supp. I,
$ 1 (e) .

America shall proclaim that citizens of the Republic of the Philippines are entitled to all the benefits of the aforementioned Title 17

of the United States Code, including the provisions of section 1 (e) thereof, but excepting the provisions embodied in the second paragraph of section 9 (b) of that Title regarding the extension of time for fulfilling copyright conditions and formalities .
You further state that the Government of the Republic of the Philippines is prepared , if this proposal should be accepted by the Government of the United States of America, to regard the note under acknowledgment and this Government's reply thereto to that effect as establishing reciprocal copyright relations between the two Governments on this day.

3000

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

I have the honor to inform you that, with a view to giving effect to

the commitment proposed in the note under acknowledgment, the

President of the United States of America has issued today a proclamap.612568S.tat . , Pt . 2 , tion, a copy of which is enclosed herewith , declaring and proclaiming,
pursuant to the provisions of section 9 of the aforesaid Title 17 of the

United States Code, on the basis of the assurances set forth in your

note and the proclamation enclosed therewith, that on and after

pp6.165S5,t6a5t3.., Pt . 1 , §§197 (Ub.),8.1 C(.e), .Supp. I,

October 21 , 1948, the conditions specified in sections 9 (b) and 1 (e) of the aforementioned Title 17 of the United States Code will exist and will be fulfilled in respect of citizens of the Republic of the Philippines and that on and after October 21 , 1948 , citizens of the Republic

of the Philippines shall be entitled to all the benefits of the said Title

17, but excepting the provisions embodied in the second paragraph

of section 9 (b) of that Title regarding the extension of time for ful-

filling copyright conditions and formalities . The proclamation im-

poses the conditions that ( 1 ) the enjoyment by any work of the rights

and benefits conferred by the said Title 17 shall be conditional upon

compliance with the requirements and formalities prescribed with

respect to such works by the copyright law of the United States ,

and (2) the provisions of section 1 (e) of the said Title 17 , so far as

Mechanical reproduction ofmusical
work; limited applica-

they secure copyright controlling parts of instruments serving to reproduce mechanically the musical work, shall apply only to compositions published after July 1 , 1909 , and which have been repro-

Effective date.

duced for use on any contrivance by means of which the work may be mechanically performed .
The Government of the United States of America accordingly

considers that reciprocal copyright relations have been established

between the Republic of the Philippines and the United States of

America and are in force as of today's date.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

ROBERT A. LOVETT

Enclosure : Copy of proclamation.

Acting Secretary of State

His Excellency JOAQUIN M. ELIZALDE , Ambassador of the Philippines

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE FILMS- SEPT. 16, 1948

3001

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting distribution and exhibition of American motion picture films in the French Union. Signed at Paris September 16, 1948 ; effective retroactively July 1 , 1948.

September 16, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1841]

JOINT DECLARATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC ON MOTION PICTURES

3002

FR INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
S

JOINT DECLARATION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC ON MOTION PICTURES

The Government of the United States of America and the Govern-
ment of the French Republic have, at the request of the latter, reexamined certain questions relating to the distribution and exhibition in the French Union of American motion picture films, and, in particular, the Franco-American Motion Picture Understanding of May 28, 1946. [ ] During these conversations , the specific problems relating to the distribution and exhibition of American films in the French Union have been discussed in the light of the special conditions facing the French Government resulting from its external financial position and balance of payments and other postwar problems of economic adjustment . These conversations have taken place with due regard for the relevant provisions of the international conventions and agreements to which both Governments are parties.

I.

The French Government has informed the Government of the United States of America that in view of the current situation in the

French film industry it is necessary to increase the screen time reserved to films of national origin . The Franco -American Motion Picture Understanding of May 28 , 1946 , having expired in accordance with the

provisions therein, the French Government has decided , consistent

with Article IV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of

61 Stat., Pt. 5 , p . 420. October 30, 1947 , to reserve five weeks per quarter for the exhibition

Post, p. 3004.

of French films, except as otherwise noted (Annex A) .

II.

The French Government has decided to make certain modifications

Post, p. 3004.

in its administrative regulations regarding the two-year rule, fifteensituations restriction , and allocation of raw stock (Annexes B, C and D) .

III.

Distribution quota system .

In view of the current French external financial situation and

balance of payments, the French Government has decided to institute

a distribution quota system (applicable to imported films which are

dubbed in France for distribution in the French Union) which it con-

pp6.143S4t, Aa4t0.., Pt . 5,

siders to be within the provisions of Articles XII and XIII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Recognizing its obligations under the above-mentioned Articles of the General Agreement, the

French Government undertakes to relax progressively the restriction

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE FILMS-SEPT. 16, 1948

3003

referred to in this paragraph as its balance of payments situation improves and to eliminate the restriction when conditions no longer justify its maintenance (Annex E) .
The Government of the United States of America takes note of this decision of the French Government without prejudice to any rights which the United States Government may have under the General Agreement with respect to any action which the French Government may take to implement this decision.

Post, p. 3005.

IV .

The two Governments have reached a mutually satisfactory understanding with respect to the financial problems arising from the distribution and exhibition in the French Union of American films (Annex F) .
.

Post, p. 3005.

The arrangements outlined above shall enter into force retroactively on July 1 , 1948 , and shall remain in effect for four years from that date. Either party may request, within two months of the expiration of each annual period , a review of the provisions contained in any of the annexed documents , except as otherwise provided . This agreement, however, shall continue in full force and effect for four

Entry into force; duration; modifications.

years except to the extent that both parties agree to modifications thereof.

DONE at Paris, in duplicate, in the English and French languages, this 16th day of September, 1948 .

For the Government of the Republic of France:
SCHUMAN

For the Government of the United States of America:
JEFFERSON CAFFERY

[SEAL] ROBERT LACOSTE

[SEAL]

[SEAL]

68706-52- PT. III- 26

3004

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ANNEX A

Screen Quota

Consistent with Article IV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and

p.6A120S. tat . , Pt . 5 ,

Trade of October 30, 1947 , the French Government declares that it will increase to five weeks per quarter the screen quota established by the Decree of August 17, 1946 , regarding the exhibition in the French

Effective date.

Union of motion picture films. The present provisions will be applicable from July 1 , 1948. In
order to facilitate the application of the screen quota during the period July 1 to December 31 , 1948 , the quota will be calculated on the basis of this six-month period , i. e . , ten weeks out of twenty-six will therefore be reserved to the projection of French films .

ANNEX B

Two-year Dubbing Rule
The French Government declares that , consistent with the treatment it will accord to the films of other nations, it will grant , as of July 1 , 1948 , for American feature-length films, exceptions up to a maximum number of twenty-four per year, to Article 5, paragraph 3 , of the Decree of July 3, 1945 , according to which there may not be a delay of more than two years between the date of the first public presentation of a film in its country of origin and the date of the dubbing authorization. On the other hand , this rule will not be applied to shorts .
ANNEX C

Fifteen-Situations Restriction

The French Government declares that it will, as of July 1 , 1948, place in force the following provisions concerning the exhibition of films in original version :

I. Films which are released in both original and dubbed versions

may be exhibited in five theaters in the Department of the Seine and

in ten theaters in the other Departments .

II. Films released exclusively in the original version and for which

an agreement has been made not to dub may be exhibited in ten thea-

ters in the Department of the Seine and in twenty theaters in the other

Departments .

ANNEX D

Allocation of Raw Stock
In an effort to meet more adequately the raw stock needs of the motion picture industry in France, the French Government declares that it has placed in effect as of July 1 , 1948 , the following provisions concerning the allocation of different categories of raw stock :
I. Only positive and negative 35 mm raw stock and 35 mm sound track are subject to allocation . The sale of other categories of raw stock is free.

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE FILMS-SEPT. 16, 1948

3005

II. Official allocation will be effected in the following manner : A. Positive raw stock:
The allocation is assured :
1. By the Centre National de la Cinematographie directly, with respect to the requirements of French production and miscellaneous requirements (needs of the public administration, film libraries , etc.) ;
2. In accordance with the advice of a Committee for the Allocation of Raw Stock for the requirements of news-reels , distribution of French and foreign films, and exports. It is understood that the Committee will evaluate the over-all needs of export , the suballocation being effected by the Centre National de la Cinematographie. The Committee is composed of representatives of the following professional categories : Production , Distribution , Laboratories.
B. Negative raw stock and sound track :
Same as paragraph A. above, except that only the priority needs of French production will be met by the Centre National de la Cinematographie directly.
ANNEX E

Distribution Quota

Taking into account the outlay of foreign exchange which the

exhibition of foreign films in France involves and the condition of the

French balance of payments, and

Taking into account the provisions of Articles XII and XIII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,
The French Government has decided to take the following action :

61 Stat., pp. 134, A40.

Pt . 5,

Beginning July 1 , 1948, the number of foreign feature-length films which will be authorized for distribution annually (during each year ending June 30) in the French Union in a version dubbed into the French language is fixed as follows :

Films originating in the United States of America : 121 ; Films originating in other foreign countries : 65.

Whenever it appears that the French market is insufficiently supplied with films, there may be distributed a supplementary quota of imported films prorated on the basis of the figures given above.

ANNEX F

Financial Agreement

2

Reference is made to the exchange of letters between the Embassy of the United States of America and the Ministry of Finance , dated June 21 , 1947 , and July 1 , 1947 , [ '] respectively , which established (a) the amount of money accruing to certain American motion picture companies prior to June 30 , 1947, which the Ministry recognized as
¹ Not printed.

3006

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

transferable , and (b) the rate of exchange at which these funds would be transferred . The Government of the French Republic agrees that the amount of those funds and the rate of exchange are hereby confirmed and are not subject to the provisions for annual review contained in Section V of the Joint Declaration.
Although existing economic conditions prevented the transfers being effected on the dates agreed to in the above-mentioned letters, the Government of the French Republic considers that it is now in a position to permit the conversion of a limited amount of francs into dollars for the purpose of satisfying the claims of distributors of American films. Consequently, the Government of the French Republic has decided to establish (a) a new schedule for the liquidation of blocked balances which accrued up to June 30, 1947 , (b) a schedule for the transfer of earnings since July 1 , 1947, and (c) the conditions under which any remaining blocked francs may be utilized.
To this end the Government of the French Republic proposes and the Government of the United States agrees that: Transfers ofreceipts.
I. Transfers resulting from repatriation by the American companies of receipts realized by them in the French Union will be limited to $3,625,000 per year during a period of four years beginning July 1 , 1948 .
II. The annual transfer will be composed of two parts ;

A. $2,438,205 will be subject to transfer from the remainder of the sum of $ 11,715,000 which the French Government agreed to transfer, against receipts accrued to the companies for the period ending June 30 , 1947 , in order that this remainder which amounts to $9,752,820 will be entirely transferred at the end of the four-year period .
B. $ 1,186,795 will be subject to transfer from receipts accruing

Annual remittance.

to the companies for the period beginning July 1 , 1947 .
III. The annual remittance will be transferred in four equal installments , each of which will include one-fourth of that portion of the receipts accrued during the period ending June 30, 1947 , which

Exchange rate.

are subject to transfer annually, and one-fourth of that portion of the receipts accruing during the period beginning July 1 , 1947 , which are subject to transfer annually. Each quarterly payment will be made at the end of each budget quarter. The first transfer will take place on September 30 , 1948. However, the sum of $ 609,551 , corresponding to the first installment of the receipts accrued during the period prior to June 30 , 1947 , will , as a special exception, be paid in advance upon the signing of the present accord.
IV. Transfers of receipts accrued during the period ending June 30 , 1947, will be made on the basis of the exchange rate of 119.30 francs per dollar. Transfers of receipts accruing during the period beginning July 1 , 1947, will be made on the basis of the dollar exchange rate applicable to financial transfers on the date that the transfers take place.

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE FILMS-SEPT. 16, 1948

3007

V. The division of the quarterly payments on the amount accrued to the companies during the period ending June 30 , 1947 , will be effected on the basis of the allocation previously approved by the French Government. The division of the quarterly payments on

amounts accruing to the companies during the period after July 1 ,

1947 , will be made on the basis of the gross billings accruing to dis-

tributors of American films, as determined by a certified public

accountant acceptable to the French Government and to the motion

picture companies . Nevertheless , no individual company may trans-

fer, either from receipts accrued before June 30 , 1947 , or accruing since July 1 , 1947 , more than the franc countervalue, as defined in Section

IV above, of the funds it has on hand on the date the transfer takes

place and provided those funds are recognized by the Office des Changes as transferable.

VI. The amounts in francs received by the companies during the period ending June 30 , 1952 , which have not been transferred under

Sections I, II, III , IV and V above may be utilized as specified in Section VII.
VII. Upon application to the Office des Changes , companies will be

Use of balances.

permitted to use balances remaining in franc accounts for the following purposes within the franc zone:

A.

Payment of transportation and other official expenses and

Salaries, etc., of employees.

salaries of employees of the companies, their affiliated production

companies, companies or agents distributing their films, and the Motion Picture Association of America , who may be resident or visit-

ing in the French Union .

B. Payment of any expense incurred incident to preparation of the companies' films for distribution wherever French language films

are normally shown-such as expenses of dubbing, translating , sub-

titling, printing, advertising, and the purchase of any materials

necessary for use in these operations. C. Expenses incident to co-production in France of motion

pictures, when approval has been first obtained from the Centre National de la Cinematographie ; approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Revenue accruing from Franco-American co-production will be divided between the French partner and the United States partner on a percentage basis identical to that approved for the financ-

ing. Revenue accruing to the United States company outside the French Union will not be returnable to the account of the United

States company in France, but will be freely disposable abroad by the United States company.

D. Purchase of any right to books, plays, and other literary or musical properties, and purchase of cinematographic patents, provided that any subsequent royalties due to the seller will be paid in the currency of the nation in which the royalties accrue.
E. Purchase of rights to motion pictures produced in France for distribution or sale throughout the world, excepting the franc zone, subject to the approval of the Centre National and the Office des Changes.

3008

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
F. 1. Subject to the application of the existing French exchange regulations :
Purchase of long-term securities issued by the State or public bodies ;
Purchase of French industrial securities, except securities connected with the cinematographic industry, unless special permission has been granted by the Centre National de la Cinematographie ;
Investment in French industrial or commercial enterprises , except those connected with cinematographic industries , unless special permission has been granted by the Centre National de la Cinematographie ;
Purchase, construction, renovation , leasing of developed or undeveloped real estate, except that purchase, leasing and building of theaters and laboratories , as well as the purchase and leasing of studios is excluded . However, construction of new studios will be authorized .
2. Income accruing from investments authorized in paragraph 1 above will be transferable to the United States.
3. In cases of eventual transfer, the capital invested will be subject to the general provisions of French exchange regulations.
4. The interested parties will be entitled, after having invested their franc assets in one of the categories mentioned in paragraph 1 above, to liquidate these investments and to reinvest the proceeds in one of the other categories . This new investment will be subject to the same regulations which governed the original one.
G. Purchase of goods and materials for export where such export is deemed by the French Government to be beneficial to the French economy.
H. Contributions to charities designed for French relief. I. Any other purpose specifically authorized by the Office
des Changes.
VIII . Balances remaining in franc accounts will be freely transferable between France and North Africa.

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE FILMS- SEPT. 16, 1948

3009

DECLARATION COMMUNE DU GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE
ET DU GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS - UNIS SUR LE CINEMA

3010

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

DECLARATION COMMUNE DU GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE ET DU GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS -UNIS .  SUR LE CINEMA
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement de la République Française ont, à la demande de ce dernier , examiné à nouveau certaines questions ayant trait à la distribution et à la projection dans l'Union française de films américains, en particulier l'accord franco-américain sur le cinéma du 28 Mai 1946. Au cours de ces conversations, les problèmes concernant la distribution et la projection des films américains dans l'Union française ont été discutés compte tenu de la situation particulière dans laquelle se trouve la France en raison de sa situation financière extérieure, de l'état de sa balance des paiements et des difficultés qu'entraîne la réadaptation de son économie aux conditions d'après-guerre . Il a été tenu compte pendant ces conversations des clauses pertinentes contenues dans les conventions et accords internationaux auxquels les deux Gouvernements sont parties .
I
Le Gouvernement français a informé le Gouvernement des EtatsUnis d'Amérique que, étant donné la situation actuelle de l'industrie cinématographique française , il était nécessaire d'augmenter le temps de projection réservé aux films d'origine nationale . L'accord franco-américain sur le cinéma du 28 Mai 1946 étant arrivé à expiration aux termes de la clause de la révision de cet accord , le Gouvernement français a décidé, considérant que cette décision serait compatible avec l'Article IV de l'Accord Général sur les Tarifs douaniers et le Commerce du 30 Octobre 1947 , de réserver cinq semaines par trimestre à la projection des films français, sous réserve des exceptions consignées plus loin (Annexe A) .
II
Le Gouvernement français a décidé d'apporter certaines modifications à ses règlements administratifs concernant la règle dite des deux ans, celle des quinze salles et la répartition de la pellicule vierge (Annexe B, C et D) .
III
Compte tenu de la situation financière extérieure de la France et de l'état de sa balance des paiements, le Gouvernement français a décidé d'instituer un système de contingentement de distribution (applicable aux films importés qui sont doublés en France pour être exploités dans l'Union Française) qu'il considère comme étant compatible avec les dispositions des Articles XII et XIII de l'Accord

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE FILMS- SEPT. 16, 1948

Général sur les Tarifs douaniers et le Commerce. Reconnaissant les obligations que lui imposent ces Articles de l'Accord Général, le Gouvernement Français s'engage à assouplir progressivement les restrictions mentionnées dans ce paragraphe au fur et à mesure que s'améliorera sa balance des paiements et à les supprimer lorsque les circonstances n'en justifieront plus le maintien (Annexe E) .
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique prend note de cette décision du Gouvernement français en réservant les droits qui, aux termes de l'Accord général, sont conférés au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis relativement à toutes mesures que le Gouvernement français pourrait prendre pour appliquer cette décision.

IV
Les deux Gouvernements ont abouti à un accord satisfaisant pour les deux parties sur les problèmes financiers que soulèvent la distribution et la projection des films américains dans l'Union française (Annexe F) .
V

Les dispositions indiquées ci-dessus entreront rétroactivement en vigueur le 1er juillet 1948 et demeureront valables pendant quatre ans à compter de cette date . L'une des deux parties pourra demander, deux mois avant la date d'expiration de chaque période annuelle, une révision des dispositions contenues dans l'un quelconque des documents annexés, sous réserve des exceptions prévues dans ces documents. Cet accord demeurera néanmoins en vigueur pendant quatre ans sauf en ce qui concerne les modifications que les deux parties conviendront d'y apporter.
Fait à Paris, en double exemplaire, dans les langues anglaise et française, le 16 septembre 1948.

Pour le Gouvernement de la République Française:

Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique :

SCHUMAN

JEFFERSON CAFFERY

[SEAL] ROBERT LACOSTE

[SEAL]

[SEAL]

3011

3012

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ANNEXE A

Contingent à l'écran

Le Gouvernement Français , considérant que cette décision est com-

"

patible avec l'article IV de l'Accord Général sur les Tarifs douaniers 25
et le Commerce du 30 octobre 1947 , déclare qu'il portera au chiffre

de cinq semaines par trimestre le contingent à l'écran institué par le

décret du 17 août 1946 relatif à l'exploitation dans l'Union Française

des films impressionnés.

Les présentes dispositions seront applicables à compter du 1er juillet

1948. Pour en faciliter l'application au cours de la période comprise

entre le 1er Juillet et le 31 décembre 1948 , le contingent sera calculé

sur l'ensemble de ce semestre ; dix semaines sur vingt six seront donc

réservées à la projection de films français .

ANNEXE B

Clause des deux ans

Le Gouvernement Français déclare qu'il est disposé, sans aller à l'encontre de sa politique à l'égard des films étrangers, à accorder à compter du 1er juillet 1948 , en faveur des films américains de long métrage, des dérogations dans la limite d'un nombre maximum de vingt quatre par an, à l'article 5 par. 3 du décret du 3 juillet 1945 , aux termes duquel il ne doit pas s'être écoulé un délai supérieur à deux ans entre la date de la première représentation en public d'un film dans son pays d'origine et celle de l'autorisation de doublage. D'autre part, cette règle ne sera pas appliquée en ce qui concerne les films de court métrage .
ANNEXE C

Clause des quinze salles
Le Gouvernement français déclare qu'il mettra en vigueur, à partir du 1er juillet 1948 , les dispositions suivantes touchant l'exploitation des films en version originale :
I - Les films appelés à faire l'objet d'une exploitation tant en version originale qu'en version doublée pourront être présentés dans cinq salles du département de la Seine et dans dix salles des autres départements .
II - Les films appelés à faire exclusivement l'objet d'une exploitation en version originale et pour lesquels serait pris l'engagement de ne pas les doubler, pourront être présentés dans dix salles du département de la Seine et vingt salles des autres départements .
ANNEXE D

Répartition de la Pellicule
Désireux de répartir la pellicule au mieux des intérêts de l'industrie cinématographique en France, le Gouvernement Français déclare

62 STAT.] FRANCE-AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE FILMS- SEPT. 16, 1948
qu'il a mis en vigueur à partir du 1er juillet 1948 les dispositions suivantes touchant la répartition des différentes catégories de pellicule:
I - Seules, la Positive 35 m/m, la Négative 35 m/m et la Pellicule Son 35 m/m sont soumises à répartition. La vente des autres catégories de pellicule est libre.
II - Les répartitions officielles sont opérées de la façon suivante : A - Pellicule Positive -
La répartition est assurée :
1. Par le Centre National de la Cinématographie directement, en ce qui concerne les besoins de la production française et les tirages divers (commandes des administrations publiques, cinémathèques, etc... );
2. Sur l'avis conforme d'une commission de répartition de la pellicule pour les besoins des actualités, pour ceux de la distribution des films français et étrangers et pour ceux de l'exportation. Il est entendu que la commission évaluera globalement les besoins de l'exportation, la sous-répartition étant assurée par les services du Centre National de la Cinématographie. La commission est composée de représentants des branches professionnelles suivantes : Production, Distribution, Laboratoires .
B - Pellicule Négative et Pellicule Son:
Comme au paragraphe A , à cette exception près que les seuls besoins prioritaires de la production française seront couverts par le Centre National de la Cinématographie.
ANNEXE E
Contingent de distribution
Compte tenu des dépenses en devises étrangères qu'entraîne l'exploitation des films étrangers en France et la situation de la balance des paiements française , et
Compte tenu des dispositions des Articles XII et XIII de l'Accord Général sur les Tarifs douaniers et le Commerce,
Le Gouvernement Français a décidé de prendre les dispositions suivantes :
A compter du 1er juillet 1948 , le nombre de films étrangers de long métrage qui pourront recevoir, au cours de chaque année se terminant le 30 juin, l'autorisation de distribution en version doublée en langue française est fixé comme suit:
- Films en provenance des Etats-Unis d'Amérique: 121 par an - Films en provenance des autres pays étrangers : 65 par an
Au cas où il apparaîtrait que le marché français est insuffisamment approvisionné, un contingent supplémentaire de films étrangers réparti au prorata des chiffres ci-dessus , pourra recevoir l'autorisation de distribution .

3013

3014

av INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ANNEXE F

Arrangement financier.

Se référant aux échanges de lettres entre l'Ambassade des Etats-
Unis d'Amérique et le Ministère des Finances , en date respectivement La
du 21 juin et du 1er juillet 1947 , qui ont déterminé:
a) le montant des recettes effectuées par certaines compagnies cinématographiques américaines pendant la période antérieure au 30 Juin 1947, qui étaient considérées par le Ministère comme transférables ,
2 et
b) le taux de change auquel ces fonds devaient être transférés ; le Gouvernement de la République Française confirme par les présentes le montant des fonds transférables , ainsi que le taux de change applicable à ces transferts et déclare qu'ils ne tombent ni l'un ni l'autre sous le coup des dispositions de la Section V de la Déclaration commune .

Bien que les conditions économiques aient à cette époque empêché

2

que les transferts fussent effectués à la date convenue dans les lettres

ci-dessus mentionnés , le Gouvernement de la République Française

estime qu'il est maintenant en mesure d'autoriser le transfert en dollars d'un montant limité de francs afin de faire droit aux demandes

des distributeurs de films américains . Le Gouvernement de la Ré-

publique Française a donc décidé d'arrêter:

a) un nouveau plan de liquidation des créances bloquées qui se sont accumulées dans la période antérieure au 30 Juin 1947 ;
b) un plan de transfert des recettes encaissées depuis le 1er juillet 1947 , et
c) les conditions d'utilisation des francs demeurés bloqués .
Dans ce but, le Gouvernement de la République Française propose, et le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis accepte, que:

I. Les transferts afférents au rapatriement par les Compagnies américaines des recettes réalisées par elles dans l'Union Française seront, pendant une période de quatre ans commençant le 1er juillet 1948 , limités à $3.625.000 par an.
II. Ce contingent annuel sera divisé en deux parts:

A. $2.438.205 seront affectés au transfert du reliquat de la somme de $ 11.715.000 que le Gouvernement Français s'est engagé à transférer au titre des recettes revenant aux compagnies pour la période antérieure au 30 juin 1947 , de telle sorte que ce reliquat, qui s'élève à $9.752.820 se trouve entièrement transféré à l'issue de la période de quatre ans.
B. $ 1.186.795 seront affectés au transfert des recettes revenant aux compagnies pour la période commençant le 1er juillet 1947 .
III. Le contingent annuel sera transféré en quatre fractions égales dont chacune comprendra un quart des sommes affectées annuellement au transfert des recettes encaissées au titre de la période anté-

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE FILMS- SEPT. 16, 1948
rieure au 30 Juin 1947 et un quart des sommes affectées annuellement au transfert des recettes encaissées au titre de la période commençant le 1er juillet 1947. Chacune de ces quatre fractions sera transférée à la fin d'un trimestre civil. Le premier transfert interviendra le 30 septembre 1948. Toutefois, une somme de $ 609.551 correspondant à la part qui, dans cette première échéance, est relative aux recettes afférentes à la période antérieure au 30 juin 1947 , sera, à titre exceptionnel, transférée par anticipation dès la signature du présent accord .
IV. Les transferts afférents aux recettes encaissées au titre de la période antérieure au 30 Juin 1947 seront effectués sur la base du cours de Frs. II9,30 pour 1 dollar. Les transferts afférents aux recettes encaissées au titre de la période commençant le 1er juillet 1947 seront effectués sur la base du cours du dollar applicable aux transferts financiers à la date à laquelle ils interviendront.
V. La répartition entre les compagnies des contingents trimestriels pendant la période antérieure au 30 Juin 1947 sera effectuée conformément aux dispositions précédemment approuvées par le Gouvernement Français. La répartition des contingents trimestriels afférents à la période postérieure au 1er juillet 1947 sera effectuée sur la base des recettes brutes revenant aux distributeurs de films américains, telles qu'elles auront été établies par un expert comptable agréé par le Gouvernement Français et les compagnies cinématographiques . Néanmoins, aucune compagnie considérée individuellement ne pourra transférer, soit au titre des recettes afférentes à la période antérieure au 30 juin 1947 , soit au titre des recettes afférentes à la période postérieure au 1er juillet 1947 , plus que la contrevaleur en francs calculée comme il est dit à la Section IV ci-dessus , des sommes dont elle disposera à chacun de ces titres au jour du transfert et auxquelles l'Office des Changes aura reconnu le caractère des recettes transférables .
VI. Les sommes en francs encaissées par les Compagnies au titre de la période se terminant le 30 juin 1952 et qui n'auront pas été transférées en exécution des Sections I , II , III , IV et V ci-dessus, pourront être utilisées dans les conditions définies à la Section VII.
VII. Sur demande adressée à l'Office des Changes, les sociétés seront autorisées à utiliser le solde de leurs comptes en francs aux usages suivants à l'intérieur de la zone franc:
A - Paiement des frais de voyage et autres dépenses officielles ainsi que des salaires des personnes employées par les compagnies, leurs Sociétés de production affiliées, leurs compagnies ou agents de distribution, ainsi que par la Motion Picture Association of America, qui résident ou font un voyage dans l'Union Française .
B - Paiement de toute dépense afférente à la mise des films produits par les compagnies en état d'être distribués, partout où des films de langue française sont normalement projetés (par exemple frais de doublage, de traduction, de sous-titrage, d'impression , de publicité; achat de matériel nécessaire à ces opérations) .
C- Dépenses afférentes à la co-production de films en France lorsque cette co-production aura obtenu l'accord du Centre National

3015

3016

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
de la Cinématographie ; cet accord ne sera pas refusé sans raison. Les recettes résultant de l'exploitation des films produits en coproduction franco-américaine seront partagées entre associés français et associés américains sur la base d'un pourcentage égal au pourcentage retenu pour le partage des dépenses de financement. La part des recettes en devises revenant aux associés américains pour l'exploitation de ces films dans des pays autres que ceux de l'Union Française ne sera pas reversée au compte en France des associés américains ; ceux-ci pourront en disposer librement à l'étranger.
D - Acquisition de droits d'auteur sur livres , pièces de théâtre et autres propriétés littéraires ou musicales , achats de brevets cinématographiques , étant entendu que les redevances revenant ultérieurement au vendeur lui seront payées dans la monnaie du pays où ces redevances ont pris naissance .
E - Moyennant approbation du Centre National de la Cinématographie et de l'Office des Changes , achat du droit de distribuer ou de vendre sauf dans la zone franc des films produits en France.
F - 1 . Sous réserve de l'application des dispositions de la règlementation française des changes ;
achat de titres à long terme émis par l'Etat ou les collectivités publiques ;
- achat de valeurs industrielles françaises à l'exclusion , sauf accord particulier du Centre National de la Cinématographie, de valeurs intéressant l'industrie cinématographique ;
- investissement dans des affaires industrielles ou commerciales françaises , à l'exclusion , sauf accord particulier du Centre National de la Cinématographie, des investissements dans des affaires intéressant l'industrie cinématographique ;
- achat, construction , réparation , location de propriétés bâties ou non bâties, étant précisé qu'en ce qui concerne les immeubles et installations intéressant l'industrie cinématographique, sont exclus l'achat, la location , la construction de salles et de laboratoires, ainsi que l'achat et la location de studios ; qu'au contraire sera autorisée la construction de nouveau studios .
2. Les revenus des investissements autorisés en vertu du par. 1 ci-dessus seront transférables aux Etats-Unis .
3. Les capitaux investis seront, en ce qui concerne leur transfert éventuel, soumis aux dispositions générales de la règlementation française des changes.
4. Les intéressés auront la faculté, après avoir utilisé leurs avoirs en francs à l'une des catégories de placements prévues au par. 1 ci-dessus, de liquider ces investissements et de remployer les fonds rendus disponibles dans une autre catégorie des dits placements. Ce remploi sera soumis aux mêmes règles que celles qui auraient été appliquées si le nouveau placement avait constitué le premier emploi des avoirs en francs existant initialement .
G - Achat, en vue de leur exportation , de marchandises et de matériel dans tous les cas où l'exportation de ces marchandises ou

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE FILMS- SEPT. 16, 1948
matériel est considérée par le Gouvernement français comme avantageuse pour l'économie française.
HContribution à des oeuvres charitables destinées à secourir des Français.
I - Tout autre usage ayant fait l'objet d'une autorisation particulière de l'Office des Changes.
VIII. Les sommes existant dans les comptes en francs des compagnies seront librement transférables entre la France et l'Afrique du Nord.

3017

3018

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Jualnyd8, S1e2p, tAeumgbuesrt 2213,, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1843)

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador modifying and extending the agreement of June 29 , 1944, respecting a military mission to Ecuador . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington July 8 and 12, August 23, and September 21 , 1948; entered into force September 21 , 1948.

The Ecuadoran Ambassador to the Secretary of State

EMBAJADA DEL ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 175
EXCELENCIA:

8 de julio de 1948.

Tengo a honra dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia para manifestarle que la Cancillería del Ecuador me ha informado haber enviado el oficio No. 107-DDP, fechado el 29 de junio último , a la Embajada Americana en Quito , solicitándole realizar las gestiones necesarias, a fin de que sea prorrogado el Acuerdo sobre el establecimiento de una Misión Militar de los Estados Unidos en el Ecuador, el mismo que fuera suscrito en Washington entre los Representantes autorizados de los Gobiernos del Ecuador y de este país, el 29 de junio de 1944 .
Añade la Cancillería ecuatoriana que el Representante diplomático americano, en contestación a la nota a que hago referencia , le ha manifestado que ese Departamento preferiría realizar en esta ciudad las negociaciones referentes a la prórroga y modificaciones del citado Acuerdo .
En caso de que siga siendo ese el criterio del Departamento de Estado, ruego a Vuestra Excelencia se sirva indicarme su resolución. acerca de dicha prórroga, con las siguientes modificaciones que propone mi Gobierno :
1- Que al artículo 4 , se le agregue un inciso que diga: "(c) Al pedir el Gobierno del Ecuador el retiro de todo el personal de la Misión , en el interés público del Ecuador, sin necesidad de cumplir con el inciso (a) de este artículo ." 2- Que el artículo 7 diga: "Artículo 7.- El personal de la Misión desempeñará todas las tareas de colaboración profesional que fueran fijadas por el Ministerio de Defensa Nacional, con la opinión del Jefe de Estado Mayor de las Fuerzas Armadas ." 3- Que el artículo 9 diga: "Artículo 9.- Cada miembro de la Misión servirá en la Misión con el rango que tenga en el Ejército de los Estados Unidos y usará el uniforme de su rango en el Ejército de los Estados Unidos."

62 STAT.] ECUADOR-MILITARY MISSION July 8, 12, Aug. 23, 1948 Sept. 21, 1948
Válgome de esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi consideración más alta y distinguida.

3019

A Su Excelencia el Señor GEORGE C. MARSHALL Secretario de Estado Washington, D.C.

A. Dillon Embajador del Ecuador

EMBASSY OF ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 175
EXCELLENCY :

Translation

JULY 8 , 1948 .

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Chancelry of Ecuador has notified me that it has sent note No. 107-DDP , dated June 29 [ 1] last, to the Embassy of the United States at Quito , requesting it to take the necessary steps for the extension of the Agreement on the Establishment of a United States Military Mission to Ecuador,
which Agreement was signed at Washington on June 29, 1944 by the authorized representatives of the Governments of Ecuador and of this country.

The Ecuadoran Chancelry adds that the American diplomatic representative has informed him , in reply to the note in reference, that your Department would prefer to carry on in this city the negotiations concerning the extension and amendment of the aforesaid Agreement.
In the event that such is still the desire of the Department of State, I beg Your Excellency to be good enough to let me know your decision with regard to such extension , with the following changes proposed by my Government:
1. That the following clause be added to Article 4 : "(c) Upon the request of the Government of Ecuador for the withdrawal of all the personnel of the Mission in the public interest of Ecuador, without its being necessary to comply with clause (a ) of this Article." 2. That Article 7 read :

"Article 7. The personnel of the Mission shall perform all such tasks of professional collaboration as may be set by the Ministry of National Defense, in consultation with the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces."

58 Stat. 1300.
58 Stat. 1301. 58 Stat. 1302.

1 Not printed .

3020

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

58 Stat. 1302.

3. That Article 9 shall read:

"Article 9. Each member of the Mission shall serve with the T
Mission with the rank that he holds in the United States Army and

shall wear the uniform of his rank in the United States Army."

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

A DILLON A. DILLON

His Excellency GEORGE C. MARSHALL Secretary of State Washington, D. C.

Ambassador of Ecuador

The Ecuadoran Ambassador to the Secretary of State
EMBAJADA DEL ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 177
El Embajador del Ecuador saluda muy atentamente a Su Excelencia el señor Secretario de Estado y le es honroso referirse a su nota No. 175, fechada el 8 de los corrientes, para manifestarle que el Gobierno del Ecuador, a pedido del señor Ministro de Defensa , rectificando el contenido del párrafo quinto de la referida nota , vería con agrado que el Artículo 7 del Acuerdo del 29 de junio de 1944, sobre el establecimiento de una Misión Militar Norteamericana en el Ecuador, sea reformado , para los efectos de la prórroga de tal Acuerdo , en la forma siguiente:
"Artículo 7.- El personal de la Misión desempeñará todas las tareas de colaboración profesional que fueren fijadas por el Ministerio de Defensa Nacional. "
WASHINGTON, D.C. 12 de julio de 1948.

Ante, p. 3018. 58 Stat. 1302.

Translation
EMBASSY OF ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 177
The Ambassador of Ecuador presents his compliments to His Excellency the Secretary of State and has the honor to refer to his note No. 175 of the 8th instant to inform him that the Government of Ecuador, at the request of the Minister of Defense , correcting the tenor of the fifth paragraph of the aforesaid note , would like to have Article 7 of the Agreement of June 29 , 1944 on the Establishment of a United States Military Mission in Ecuador amended as follows for the purposes of the extension of the Agreement in question:

62 STAT.] ECUADOR- MILITARY MISSION- July 8, 12, Aug. 23, 1948 Sept. 21, 1948
"Article 7. The personnel of the Mission shall perform all such tasks of professional collaboration as may be set by the Ministry of National Defense. "
WASHINGTON, D. C. July 12, 1948.

3021

The Secretary of State to the Ecuadoran Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

Aug 23 1948

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your notes Nos . 175

Renewal of agreement.

and 177, of July 8 and July 12 , 1948 , respectively, requesting on

behalf of your Government the renewal , with modification , for a period of four years, of the agreement entered into on June 29 , 1944 , between

58 Stat. 1300.

the Government of the United States of America and the Republic of

Ecuador, providing for the assignment of a United States Military Mission to Ecuador.

I am pleased to inform you that the proposed changes are acceptable to this Government with the exception of the proposed change in Title III, Article 7. The Department of the Army is of the opinion that the deletion of reference to the Chief of the Mission in the determination of mission duties is not in the best interests of the Mission .
In the event that the above proposal is acceptable to your Government, I shall consider this note and your response to that effect as completing the agreement between the two governments for the renewal of the agreement of June 29 , 1944.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
For the Secretary of State : CHARLES E. BOHLEN
His Excellency Senor Don AUGUSTO DILLON,

58 Stat. 1302.

Ambassador of Ecuador.

The Ecuadoran Ambassador to the Secretary of State

EMBAJADA DEL ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 237
EXCELENCIA:

21 de septiembre de 1948.

Tengo a honra referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia, fechada el 23 de agosto último , relacionada con la prórroga del Acuerdo de 29 de junio de 1944 entre el Gobierno del Ecuador y el de este país , para manifestarle que mi país acepta la propuesta formulada en dicha

3022

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
nota ; debiéndose entender que, de acuerdo con la sugestión contenida en la misma, tal aceptación formaliza la prórroga del citado Acuerdo por un período de cuatro años , con las modificaciones que constan en los oficios de 8 y 12 de julio dirigidas por esta Embajada a ese Departamento, exceptuándose la relativa al Artículo 7º del Título III , cuyo texto será el mismo que el del Acuerdo primitivo .
Válgome de esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi consideración más alta y distinguida.

skum

His Excellency GEORGE MARSHALL Secretary of State Washington, D.C.

A. Dillon Embajador del Ecuador

EMBASSY OF ECUADOR WASHINGTON
No. 237
EXCELLENCY :

Translation

September 21 , 1948 .

Ante, p. 3021 . 58 Stat. 1300.

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's courteous note of August 23rd last, in regard to the extension of the Agreement of June 29 , 1944 between the Government of Ecuador and that of this

country, to inform you that my country accepts the proposal con-

tained in the said note , it being understood that, in accordance with

the suggestion contained therein , this acceptance formally extends the said Agreement for a period of four years , with the modifications

Ante, pp. 3018 , 3020. set forth in the official communications of July 8 and 12 addressed

58 Stat. 1302.

by this Embassy to your Department, with the exception of the modification relative to Article 7 of Title III, the text of which shall

be the same as that of the original Agreement.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

A DILLON

A. DILLON

His Excellency GEORGE MARSHALL Secretary of State Washington, D.C.

Ambassador ofEcuador

62 STAT.] PHILIPPINES AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES -AUG. 27, 1948

3023

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines amending the agreement of November 16, 1946, respecting air transport services. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Manila August 27, 1948; entered into force August 27, 1948.

August 27, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1844]

American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Philippine Acting Secretary of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

No. 1880

Manila, August 27, 1948.

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to the exchange of correspondence con-

Designation of Guam as air traffic

cerning the desire of your Government to have Guam designated as stop.

a traffic stop on the route served by the Philippine Air Lines and to

confirm the understanding of the Government of the United States

of America that it has been mutually agreed between the Government

of the Republic of the Philippines and the Government of the United States of America that section "B" of the annex to the Air Transport

Agreement between the two Governments signed on November 16 ,

1946 , shall be amended to read as follows:

61 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 2483.

"B. Airlines of the Republic of the Philippines authorized under the present Agreement are accorded the rights of transit and non-

traffic stop in United States territory, as well as the right to pick

up and discharge international commercial traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at Guam , Honolulu and San Francisco on the route indicated below:

"From the Philippines to San Francisco and thence to points

beyond over a reasonably direct route via intermediate points in the Pacific which are United States territory , including Guam

and Honolulu , in both directions ."

Upon receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that your agreement; entry intoof

Government agrees to the amendment of the Air Transport Agree- force.

ment between the Republic of the Philippines and the United States of America signed on November 16 , 1946 , as set forth herein , the Government of the United States of America will consider that this

61 Stat . , Pt. 3, p. 2479.

note and your reply thereto constitute an agreement between the two Governments to this amendment, the agreement to enter into force on the date of Your Excellency's note .

3024

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest consideration
THOMAS H. LOCKETT THOMAS H. LOCKETT

His Excellency BERNABE AFRICA,

Charge d'Affaires a. i.

Acting Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Republic of the Philippines .

The Philippine Acting Secretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

SIR :

MANILA, August 27, 1948

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the note of the American Embassy of August 27 , 1948 , the substantive portion of which reads as follows :

61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , p. 2483.

"I have the honor to refer to the exchange of correspondence concerning the desire of your Government to have Guam designated as a traffic stop on the route served by the Philippine Air Lines and to confirm the understanding of the Government of the United States of America that it has been mutually agreed between the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Government of the United States of America that section 'B' of the annex to the Air Transport Agreement between the two Governments signed on November 16 , 1946 , shall be amended to read as follows :
'B. Airlines of the Republic of the Philippines authorized under the present Agreement are accorded the rights of transit
and non-traffic stop in United States territory, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international commercial traffic in passengers , cargo and mail at Guam, Honolulu and San Francisco on the route indicated below :

'From the Philippines to San Francisco and thence to points beyond over a reasonably direct route via intermediate points in the Pacific which are United States territory, including Guam and Honolulu , in both directions .'

61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , p. 2479.

"Upon receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that your Government agrees to the amendment of the Air Transport Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and the United States of America signed on November 16 , 1946 , as set forth herein, the Government of the United States of America will consider

62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-AUG. 27, 1948
that this note and your reply thereto constitute an agreement between the two Governments to this amendment, the agreement to enter into force on the date of Your Excellency's note." In reply, I am pleased to state that my Government agrees to the above-quoted amendment and to its entering into force on the date of this note. Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration .

3025

BERNABE AFRICA Acting Seeccrreettaarryy
The Honorable THOMAS H. LOCKETT Chargé d'Affaires a.i. United States Embassy Manila

3026

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

October 15, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1845]

Agreement between the United States of America and the British/United States Zone, Free Territory of Trieste , respecting economic cooperation, under Public Law 472 , 80th Congress . Signed at Trieste October 15 , 1948; entered into force October 15, 1948.

ECONOMIC COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE BRITISH/UNITED STATES ZONE, FREE TERRITORY OF TRIESTE .

Preamble

Principles of Agreement.

The Government of the United States of America and , on behalf

of the British/United States Zone , Free Territory of Trieste , the

Commander, British/United States Forces, Free Territory of Trieste:

Recognizing that the restoration or maintenance in European countries of principles of individual liberty, free institutions, and genuine independence rests largely upon the establishment of sound economic conditions , stable international economic relationships , and the achievement by the countries of Europe of a healthy economy independent of extraordinary outside assistance ;
Recognizing that a strong and prosperous European Economy is essential for the attainment of the purposes of the United Nations ;
Considering that the achievement of such conditions calls for a European recovery plan of self-help and mutual cooperation open to all nations which cooperate in such a plan, based upon a strong production effort, the expansion of foreign trade, the creation or maintenance of internal financial stability and the development of economic cooperation, including all possible steps to establish and maintain valid rates of exchange and to reduce trade barriers ;
Considering that in furtherance of these principles the Commander, on behalf of the UK/US Zone, has joined with other like-minded nations in the Convention for European Economic Cooperation signed at Paris on April 16 , 1948 [ ] under which the signatories of that Convention agreed to undertake as their immediate task the elaboration and execution of a joint recovery program, and that the UK/US Zone is a member of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation created pursuant to the provisions of that Convention ;
Considering also that, in furtherance of these principles , the Government of the United States of America has enacted the Economic 62 Stat. , Pt. 1 , p. 137. Cooperation Act of 1948 , providing for the furnishing of assistance by the United States of America to nations participating in a joint program for European recovery , in order to enable such nations through their own individual and concerted efforts to become independent of extraordinary outside economic assistance ;

1 Department of State publication 3145.

62 STAT. ] TRIESTE, UK/US ZONE-ECONOMIC COOPERATION-OCT. 15, 1948

3027

Desiring to set forth the understandings which govern the furnishing of assistance by the Government of the United States of America under the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 , the receipt of such assistance by the UK/US Zone, and the measures which the two parties will take individually and together in furthering the recovery of the UK/US Zone as an integral part of the joint program for European recovery ;
Have agreed as follows:
Article I

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p.137.

(Assistance and Cooperation)

1. The Government of the United States of America undertakes

to assist the UK/US Zone, by making available to the Commander or to any person, agency or organization designated by the latter such

assistance as may be requested by him and approved by the Government ofthe United States of America. The Government of the United

States of America will furnish this assistance under the provisions , and

subject to all of the terms, conditions and termination provisions , of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 , acts amendatory and supplementary thereto and appropriation acts thereunder, and will make

62 Stat. , Pt. 1, p.137.

available to the Commander only such commodities , services and other assistance as are authorized to be made available by such acts.

2. The Commander , acting directly and through the Organization

for European Economic Cooperation , consistently with the Con-

vention for European Economic Cooperation signed at Paris on April 16 , 1948 , will exert sustained efforts in common with other

participating countries speedily to achieve through a joint recovery program economic conditions in Europe essential to lasting peace and

prosperity and to enable the countries of Europe participating in

such a joint recovery program to become independent of extraordinary outside economic assistance within the period of this Agreement .

The Commander will take action to carry out the provisions of the

General Obligations of the Convention for European Economic Cooperation, to continue to participate actively in the work of the

Organization for European Economic Cooperation , and to adhere to the purposes and policies of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948.

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 137.

3. The Commander will carry out his obligations under this Agree-

ment with due regard for his responsibilities under the relevant clauses

ofthe Treaty of Peace with Italy signed at Paris February 10, 1947 .

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1245.

4. With respect to assistance furnished by the Government of the

United States of America to the UK/US Zone and procured from

areas outside the United States of America, its territories and posses-

sions, the Commander will cooperate with the Government of the

United States of America in ensuring that procurement will be

effected at reasonable prices and on reasonable terms and so as to

arrange that the dollars thereby made available to the country from

which the assistance is procured are used in a manner consistent with any arrangements made by the Government of the United States of America with such country.

68706-52- PT. III- 27

3028

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article II

(General Undertakings)

1. In order to achieve the maximum recovery through the employment of assistance received from the Government of the United States

Measures for practical use of resources.
Post, p. 3036..

of America, the Commander will use his best endeavors : a) to adopt or maintain the measures necessary to ensure efficient and practical use of all the resources available to the UK/US

Zone, including

(i) such measures as may be necessary to ensure that the commodities and services obtained with assistance furnished

under this Agreement are used for purposes consistent with 1
this Agreement and , as far as practicable , with the general
purposes outlined in the schedules furnished by the Com-

mander in support of the requirements of assistance to be 2
furnished by the Government of the United States of
America ;

(ii) the observation and review of the use of such resources through an effective follow-up system approved by the Organization for European Economic Cooperation ; and
(iii) to the extent practicable, measures to locate , identify and put into appropriate use in furtherance of the joint program for European recovery, assets , and earnings therefrom , which belong to citizens and juridical persons domiciled within the boundaries of the UK/US Zone and which are situated within the United States of America , its territories or possessions . Nothing in this clause imposes any obligation on the Government of the United States of America to

assist in carrying out such measures or on the Commander to dispose of such assets ;

Development ofproduction.

b) to promote the development of industrial and agricultural production on a sound economic basis ; to achieve such produc-

tion targets as may be established through the Organization for European Economic Cooperation ; and when desired by the Government of the United States of America , to communicate to that Government detailed proposals for specific projects contemplated by the Commander to be undertaken in substantial

Maintenance of financial stability.
Post, p. 3036.
Stimulation of trade .

part with assistance made available pursuant to this Agreement , including whenever practicable projects for increased production of steel and transportation facilities ;
c) to balance the governmental budget as soon as practicable and to create or maintain internal financial stability ; and
d) to cooperate with other participating countries in facilitating and stimulating an increasing interchange of goods and services among the participating countries and with other countries and

in reducing public and private barriers to trade among themselves and with other countries .

62 STAT. ] TRIESTE , UK/US ZONE-ECONOMIC COOPERATION--OCT. 15, 1948

3029

Utilization of man2. Taking into account Article 8 of the Convention for European power.
Economic Cooperation [ ] looking toward the full and effective use of

manpower available in the participating countries, the Commander,

with due regard for the urgency and importance of the problems of

surplus manpower in the UK/US Zone, will accord sympathetic

consideration to proposals made in conjunction with the International

Refugee Organization directed to the largest practicable utilization of

manpower available in any of the participating countries in further-

ance of the accomplishment of the purposes of this Agreement . 3. The Commander will take the measures which he deems appro-
priate, and will cooperate with other participating countries, to prevent, on the part of private or public commercial enterprises , business practices or business arrangements affecting international trade which

Prevention of practices interfering with
agcrhaime.vement of proPost, p. 3036.

restrain competition , limit access to markets or foster monopolistic

control whenever such practices or arrangements have the effect of interfering with the achievement of the joint program of European

recovery.

Article III

(Guaranties)

1. The Government of the United States of America and the

Commander will, upon the request of either party, consult respecting projects in the UK/US Zone proposed by nationals of the United States

of America and with regard to which the Government of the United

States of America may appropriately make guaranties of currency

transfer under section 111 (b) (3) of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948.
2. The Commander agrees that if the Government of the United

62 Stat., Pt. 1, pp. 144, 1056.
Post, p. 3034.

States of America makes payment in United States dollars to any

person under such a guaranty, any Italian lire, or credits in Italian

lire, assigned or transferred to the Government of the United States

of America pursuant to that section shall be recognized as property of the Government of the United States of America .

Article IV

(Local Currency)

1. The provisions of this Article shall apply only with respect to Post, p. 3034.

assistance which may be furnished by the Government of the United States of America on a grant basis.
2. The Commander will establish a special account in the Banca

BaSnpeccida'lItaalcicao.unt in

d'Italia in the name of the Commander (hereinafter called the Special

Account) and will make deposits in Italian lire to this account as follows:

(a) The unencumbered balance, at the close of business on the date

of this Agreement , in the Special Account in the Banca d'Italia

established in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of Public Law 84 , Eightieth Congress, and Section 103 (b) of the ¹Department of State publication 3145.

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 128. 22 U. S. C. , Supp. I, $ 1416.

3030

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 138. 62 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 150.

Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 , together with any further sums which may, from time to time, be required to be deposited in the Special Account. It is understood that subsection (e) of Section 114 of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 constitutes the approval and determination of the Government of the United States of America with respect to the disposition of such balance.

(b) Amounts commensurate with the indicated dollar cost to the Government of the United States of America of commodities , services and technical information (including any costs of processing, storing, transporting, repairing or other services. incident thereto) made available to the UK/US Zone on a grant

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 137.

basis by any means authorized under the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948. The Government of the United States of America

shall from time to time notify the Commander of the indicated

dollar cost of any such commodities , services and technical information , and the Commander will thereupon deposit in the

Special Account a commensurate amount of Italian lire computed at a rate of exchange which shall be the par value agreed at such time with the International Monetary Fund ; provided

that this agreed value is the single rate applicable to the purchase of dollars for imports into the UK/US Zone . If at the time of notification a par value for the Italian lira is agreed with the

Fund and there are one or more other rates applicable to the

purchase of dollars for imports into the UK/US Zone or , if at

the time of notification no par value for the Italian lira is agreed with the Fund, the rate or rates for this particular purpose

shall be mutually agreed upon between the Commander and the Government of the United States of America. The Com-

mander may at any time make advance deposits in the Special

Account which shall be credited against subsequent notifications

pursuant to this paragraph.

Availability ofsums for U. S. administra-

3. The Government of the United States of America will from time

tive expenditures. to time notify the Commander of its requirements for administrative

expenditures in Italian lire within the UK/US Zone incident to

62 Stat. , Pt . 1 , p . 137. Operations under the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 , and the

Commander will thereupon make such sums available out of any balances in the Special Account in the manner requested by the Government of the United States of America in the notification .

4. Five percent of each deposit made pursuant to this Article in

respect of assistance furnished under authority of the Foreign Aid

p.612054S.tat. , Pt. 1 , Appropriation Act, 1949 , shall be allocated to the use of the Government of the United States of America for its expenditures in the

UK/US Zone and sums made available pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article shall first be charged to the amounts allocated under this

paragraph . 5. The Commander will further make such sums of Italian lire

available out of any balances in the Special Account as may be

required to cover costs (including port , storage, handling and similar

62 STAT. ] TRIESTE, UK/US ZONE-ECONOMIC COOPERATION- OCT. 15, 1948

3031

charges) of transportation from any point of entry in the UK/US

Zone to the consignee's designated point of delivery in the UK/US

Zone of such relief supplies and packages as are referred to in Article V. 6. The Commander may draw upon any remaining balance in the
Special Account for such purposes as may be agreed from time to time with the Government of the United States of America. In

Withdrawals by commander from special account.

considering proposals put forward by the Commander for drawings from the Special Account, the Government of the United States of America will take into account the need for promoting or maintaing

internal monetary and financial stabilization in the UK/US Zone and for stimulating productive activity and international trade and the exploration for and development of new sources of wealth within the UK/US Zone , including in particular :

(a) expenditures upon projects or programs, including those which are part of a comprehensive program for the development of the productive capacity of the UK/US Zone and the other

participating countries, and projects or programs the external costs of which are being covered by assistance rendered by the Government of the United States of America under the Eco-
nomic Cooperation Act of 1948 or otherwise, or by loans from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ; and

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 137.

(b) effective retirement of public debt , especially debt held by

banking institutions .

7. Any unencumbered balance , other than unexpended amounts allocated under paragraph 4 of this Article, remaining in the Special Account on June 30, 1952 , shall be disposed of within the UK/US

Disposition of unencumbered balance in special account; approval by U. 3. Con-
gress.

Zone for such purposes as may hereafter be agreed between the Gov-

ernments of the United States of America and the Commander, it

being understood that the agreement of the United States of America

shall be subject to approval by Act or joint resolution of the Congress of the United States of America.

Article V

(Travel Arrangements and Relief Supplies)
1. The Commander will cooperate with the Government of the United States of America in facilitating and encouraging the promotion and development of travel by citizens of the United States of America to and within participating countries .
2. The Commander will , when so desired by the Government of the United States of America, enter into negotiations for agreements (including the provision of duty-free treatment under appropriate safeguards) to facilitate the entry into the UK/US Zone of supplies of relief goods donated to or purchased by United States voluntary nonprofit relief agencies and of relief packages originating in the United States of America and consigned to individuals residing in the UK/US Zone.

3032

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article VI

(Consultation and Transmittal of Information)

1. Parties to this Agreement will , upon request of either of them ,

ETIH

consult together regarding any matter relating to the application of

this Agreement or to operations or arrangements carried out pursuant to this Agreement .
2. The Commander will communicate to the Government of the

United States of America in a form and at intervals to be indicated by the latter after consultation with the Commander:

Post, p. 3036.

(a) detailed information of projects , programs and measures proposed or adopted by the Commander to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and the General Obligations of the Convention for European Economic Cooperation ;
(b) full statements of operations under this Agreement , including a statement of the use of funds, commodities and services received thereunder, such statements to be made in each calendar quarter ;

(c) information regarding the economy of the UK/US Zone and any other relevant information , necessary to supplement that obtained by the Government of the United States of America from the Organization for European Economic Cooperation , which the Government of the United States of America may

62 Stat., Pt. 1 , p. 137.

need to determine the nature and scope of operations under the

Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 , and to evaluate the effec-

tiveness of assistance furnished or contemplated under this

Agreement and generally the progress of the joint recovery

program .

Article VII

(Publicity)
1. The Government of the United States of America and the Commander recognize that it is in their mutual interest that full publicity be given to the objectives and progress of the joint program for European recovery and of the actions taken in furtherance of that program . It is recognized that wide dissemination of information on the progress of the program is desirable in order to develop the sense of common effort and mutual aid which are essential to the accomplishment of the objectives of the program.
2. The Government of the United States of America will encourage the dissemination of such information and will make it available to the media of public information.
3. The Commander will encourage the dissemination of such information both directly and in cooperation with the Organization for European Economic Cooperation . He will make such information available to the media of public information and take all practicable steps to ensure that appropriate facilities are provided for such dissemination. He will further provide other participating countries and the Organization for European Economic Cooperation with full information on the progress of the program for economic recovery .

62 STAT. ] TRIESTE, UK/US ZONE- ECONOMIC COOPERATION-OCT. 15, 1948

3033

Quarterly state4. The Commander will make public in the UK/US Zone in each ments of operations.
calendar quarter, full statements of operations under this Agreement,
including information as to the use of funds, commodities and services received.
Article VIII

(Missions)

1. The Commander agrees to receive a Special Mission for Economic

Cooperation which shall conform to any administrative arrangements

established by the President of the United States of America pursuant to Section 109 (d) of the Economic Cooperation Act of 1948 and which

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 142.

will discharge the responsibilities of the Government of the United States of America in the UK/US under this Agreement .
2. The Commander, upon appropriate notification from the Government of the United States of America , will accord appropriate courtesies

Courtesies to U. S. Special Mission.

to the Special Mission and its personnel, the United States Special Representative in Europe and his staff, and the members and staff of the Joint Committee on Foreign Economic Cooperation of the Congress of the United States of America, and will grant them the facilities and assistance necessary to the effective performance of their responsibilities to assure the accomplishment of the purposes of this Agreement .

3. The Commander, directly and through his representatives on

the Organization for European Economic Cooperation , will extend

full cooperation to the Special Mission, to the United States Special Representative in Europe and his staff, and to the members and staff

of the Joint Committee . Such cooperation shall include the provision

of all information and facilities necessary to the observation and

review of the carrying out of this Agreement , including the use of assistance furnished under it.

Article IX

(Definitions ) As used in this Agreement :

1. The " UK/US Zone" means that zone of the Free Territory of "UK/US Zone."

Trieste under the joint administration of the United Kingdom and United States military commands.
2. The "Commander" means the Commander, British-United

"Commander."

States Forces, Free Territory of Trieste. 3. The term " participating country" means

" Participating country."

(i) any country which signed the Report of the Committee of

European Economic Cooperation at Paris on September 22 , 1947,['] and territories for which it has international responsibility and to which the Economic Cooperation Agreement concluded

between that country and the Government of the United States of America has been applied, and (ii) any other country (including any of the zones of occupation of Germany, and areas under international administration or

' Department of State publication 2930.

3034

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

control, and the Free Territory of Trieste or either of its zones) wholly or partly in Europe, together with dependent areas under its administration ;
for so long as such country is a party to the Convention for European Economic Cooperation and adheres to a joint program for European recovery designed to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement.

Article X

(Entry into Force, Amendment , Duration)

Effective date; dura-

tion .

1. This Agreement shall become effective on this day's date .

Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article , it shall

remain in force until June 30 , 1953, or until the authority of the

Modification , etc.

Commander with respect to the UK/US Zone shall have ceased , whichever is the earlier date.
2. If, during the life of this Agreement , either the Government of the United States of America or the Commander should consider there has

been a fundamental change in the basic assumptions underlying this Agreement, the other shall be so notified in writing and the Government of the United States of America and the Commander will there-

Termination.

upon consult with a view to agreeing upon the amendment, modification or termination of this Agreement . If, after three months from such notification , no agreement has been reached upon the action to be taken in the circumstances , either party may give notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate this Agreement. Then, subject

to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article, this Agreement shall terminate either:

Ante, p. 3029. Ante, p. 3029. Amendment. Registration .

(a) six months after the date of such notice of intention to terminate, or
(b) after such shorter period as may be agreed to be sufficient to ensure that the obligations of the Commander are performed in respect of any assistance which may continue to be furnished by the Government of the United States of America after the date of such notice .
3. Article IV shall remain in effect until all the sums in the currency of the UK/US Zone required to be deposited in accordance with its own terms have been disposed of as provided in that Article . Paragraph 2 of Article III shall remain in effect for so long as the guaranty payments referred to in that Article may be made by the Government of the United States of America.
4. This Agreement may be amended at any time by agreement between the parties.
5. The Annex to this Agreement forms an integral part thereof. 6. This Agreement shall be registered with the Secretary-General of the United Nations .

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the respective representatives , duly authorized for the purpose, have signed the present agreement .

62 STAT. ] TRIESTE, UK/US ZONE-ECONOMIC COOPERATION-OCT. 15, 1948

3035

Done at Trieste, in duplicate, both texts authentic , this 15th day of October 1948.
T. S. AIREY

Authentic texts.

Major General T. S. AIREY, C.B. , C.B.E. Commander, British/United States Zone,
Free Territory of Trieste.

ROBERT P. JOYCE
ROBERT P. JOYCE, United States Political Adviser to the Commander, British/ United States Zone, Free Territory of Trieste, and Ad Interim Representative for the Economic Cooperation
Administration .

68706-52- PT. III- 28

3036 Ante, p. 3028. Ante. p. 3028. Ante, p. 3029.
Ante, p. 3029. Ante, p. 3032.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
ANNEX
Interpretative Notes
1. It is understood that the requirements of paragraph 1 (a) of Article II , relating to the adoption of measures for the efficient use of resources , would include, with respect to commodities furnished under the Agreement, effective measures for safeguarding such commodities and for preventing their diversion to illegal or irregular markets or channels of trade.
2. It is understood that the obligation under paragraph 1 (c) of Article II to balance the governmental budget as soon as practicable would not preclude deficits over a short period but would mean budgetary policy involving the balancing of the budget in the long run.
3. It is understood that the business practices and business arrangements referred to in paragraph 3 of Article II mean :
(a) fixing prices , terms or conditions to be observed in dealing with others in the purchase, sale or lease of any product ;
(b) excluding enterprises from, or allocating or dividing, any territorial market or field of business activity, or allocating customers , or fixing sales quotas or purchase quotas ;
(c) discriminating against particular enterprises ; (d) limiting production or fixing production quotas ; (e) preventing by agreement the development or application of
technology or invention whether patented or unpatented ; (f) extending the use of rights under patents , trade marks or
copyrights granted by either country to matters which, according to its laws and regulations , are not within the scope of such grants , or to products or conditions of production , use or sale which are likewise not the subjects of such grants ; and (g) such other practices as the two Governments may agree to include .
4. It is understood that the Commander is obligated to take action in particular instances in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article II only after appropriate investigation or examination .
5. It is understood that the Commander will not be requested , under paragraph 2 ( a) of Article VI , to furnish detailed information about minor projects or confidential commercial or technical information the disclosure of which would injure legitimate commercial interests .

<

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

3037

Constitution of the International Refugee Organization , adopted by the United States of America and other governments. Opened for signature at New York December 15, 1946; signed on behalf of the United States of America, subject to approval, December 16, 1946; instrument of acceptance deposited by the United States of America July 3, 1947;
entered into force August 20, 1948.

December 16, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 1846]

CONSTITUTION OF THE
INTERNATIONAL REFUGEE ORGANIZATION

UNITED NATIONS Lake Success, New York
1946

3038

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

UK 2 14 25

CONSTITUTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL REFUGEE ORGANIZATION

PREAMBLE

ment in order to avoid the evil and

I

The Governments accepting this Constitution,
RECOGNIZING :

anti-social consequences of continued idleness ; and
that the expenses of repatriation

that genuine refugees and displaced persons constitute an urgent problem which is international in scope and character ;
that as regards displaced per-

to the extent practicable should be charged to Germany and Japan for persons displaced by those Powers from countries occupied by them :
HAVE AGREED :

sons, the main task to be per-
formed is to encourage and assist in every way possible their early
return to their country of origin ; that genuine refugees and dis-

for the accomplishment of the foregoing purposes in the shortest possible time, to establish and do hereby establish, a non-permanent

placed persons should be assisted organization to be called the

International Refugee Organiza-
by international action , either to return to their countries of nation- tion, a specialized agency to be

ality or former habitual residence, brought into relationship with the ality or former habitual residence, United Nations, and accordingly

or to find new homes elsewhere , HAVE ACCEPTED
under the conditions provided for ING ARTICLES :
in this Constitution ; or in the case

THE

FOLLOW-

of Spanish Republicans, to establish themselves temporarily in order to enable them to return to

ARTICLE 1 MANDATE

Post, p. 3048.

Spain when the present Falangist The mandate of the Organiza-

regime is succeeded by a demo- tion shall extend to refugees and

cratic regime ;

displaced persons in accordance

that re-settlement and re-estab- with the principles , definitions

lishment of refugees and displaced and conditions set forth in Annex

persons be contemplated only in I , which is attached to and made

cases indicated clearly in the Con- an integral part of this Consti-

stitution ;

tution.

that genuine refugees and dis-

ARTICLE 2

placed persons, until such time as their repatriation or re-settlement and re-establishment is effectively

FUNCTIONS AND POWERS 1. The functions of the Organi-

completed, should be protected in zation to be carried out in accordtheir rights and legitimate inter- ance with the purposes and the

59 Stat., 1031 .

ests , should receive care and as- principles of the Charter of the sistance and, as far as possible, United Nations, shall be: the should be put to useful employ- repatriation ; the identification ,

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

3039

registration and classification ; the

ment in other countries of

care and assistance ; the legal and political protection ; the transport; and the re-settlement and re-establishment, in countries able and willing to receive them, of persons who are the concern of

individuals or family units ; and
(iii) as may be necessary and practicable, within available resources and subject to the relevant financial regu-

the Organization under the provisions of Annex I. Such functions shall be exercised with a view:

lations, the investigation, promotion or execution of projects ofgroup re-settlement or large-scale re-settlement.

(a) to encouraging and assist-

(c) with respect to Spanish

ing in every way possible the early return to their country of

Republicans to assisting them to establish themselves tem-

nationality, or former habitual porarily until the time when residence, of those persons who a democratic regime in Spain are the concern of the Organi- is established . zation, having regard to the 2. For the purpose of carrying principles laid down in the reso- out its functions, the Organization

lution on refugees and displaced may engage in all appropriate

persons adopted by the General activities, and to this end, shall Assembly of the United Nations have power:

on 12 February 1946 (Annex III ) and to the principles set forth in the Preamble, and to promoting this by all possible

(a) to receive and disburse private and public funds ;
(b) as necessary to acquire land and buildings by lease,

means, in particular by providing them with material assistance, adequate food for a period of three months from the time
of their departure from their

gift, or in exceptional circumstances only, by purchase ; and to hold such land and buildings
or to dispose of them by lease, sale or otherwise ;

present places of residence provided they are returning to a

(c) to acquire, hold and convey other necessary property ;

country suffering as a result of enemy occupation during the war, and provided such food shall be distributed under the

(d) to enter into contracts, and undertake obligations ; including contracts with Governments or with occupation or

auspices of the Organization ; control authorities , whereby

and 'the necessary clothing and such authorities would continue,

means of transportation ; and

or undertake, in part or in

(b) with respect to persons for whom repatriation does not take place under paragraph 1 (a) of this article to facilitating :

whole, the care and maintenance of refugees and displaced persons in territories under their authority, under the supervision

(i) their re-establishment in countries of temporary residence ;
(ii) the emigration to, resettlement and re-establish-

of the Organization ; (e) to conduct negotiations
and conclude agreements with Governments ;
(f) to consult and co-operate

Post, p. 3048. Post, p. 3054.

3040

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

--1

with public and private or-

ARTICLE 4

ganizations whenever it is deemed advisable, in so far as

MEMBERSHIP

such organizations share the 1. Membership in the Organipurpose of the Organization and zation is open to Members of the

observe the principles of the United Nations. Membership is

United Nations ;

also open to any other peace-

(g) to promote the conclu- loving States, not members of the

Post, p. 3054. Post, p. 3044.

sion of bilateral arrangements United Nations, upon recommend-

for mutual assistance in the re- ation of the Executive Committee,

patriation of displaced persons , by a two-thirds majority vote of

having regard to the principles members of the General Council

laid down in paragraph (c) present and voting, subject to

(ii) of the resolution adopted by the conditions of the agreement

the General Assembly of the between the Organization and the United Nations on 12 February United Nations approved pur-

1946 regarding the problem of suant to article 3 of this Consti-

refugees (Annex III) ;

tution.

(h) to appoint staff, subject 2. Subject to the provisions of

to the provisions of Article 9 paragraph 1 of this article , the

of this Constitution ;

members of the Organization shall

59 Stat. 1046, 1047.

(i) to undertake any project be those States whose duly author-

appropriate to the accomplish- ized representatives sign this Conment of the purposes of this stitution without reservation as to

Organization ;

subsequent acceptance, and those

( ) to conclude agreements States which deposit with the

with countries able and willing Secretary-General of the United

to receive refugees and dis- Nations their instruments of acplaced persons for the purpose of ceptance after their duly author-

ensuring the protection of their ized representatives have signed

legitimate rights and interests in this Constitution with such res-

so far as this may be necessary ; ervation.

and

3. Subject to the provisions of

(k) in general, to perform any paragraph 1 of this article, those

other legal act appropriate to States , whose representatives have

its purposes.

not signed the Constitution re-

ferred to in the previous paragraph,

ARTICLE 3

or which, having signed it, have

not deposited the relevant instruRELATIONSHIP TO THE UNITED ment of acceptance within the

NATIONS

following six months, may, how-

The relationship between the ever, be admitted as members of

Organization and the United Na- the Organization in the following

tions shall be established in an cases :

agreement between the Organization and the United Nations as provided in Articles 57 and 63 of the Charter of the United Nations.

(a) if they undertake to liquidate any outstanding contributions in accordance with the relevant scale ; or

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

3041

(b) if they submit to the its membership by the General Organization a plan for the Council. admission to their territory , as 8. A member of the Organiza-

immigrants, refugees or dis- tion which has persistently violatplaced persons in such numbers, ed the principles contained in the and on such settlement condi- present Constitution , may be sus-

tions as shall, in the opinion pended from the rights and privi-

of the Organization, require leges of the Organization by the from the applicant State an General Council , and with the

expenditure or investment approval of the General Assembly equivalent, or approximately of the United Nations, may be equivalent, to the contribution expelled from the Organization. that they would be called upon, 9. A member of the Organizain accordance with the relevant tion undertakes to afford its gen-

scale, to make to the budget of the Organization. 4. Those States which, on sign-

eral support to the work of the Organization.
10. Any member may at any

ing the Constitution, express their time give written notice of withintention to avail themselves of drawal to the Chairman of the

clause (b) of paragraph 3 of this Executive Committee . Such

article may submit the plan re- notice shall take effect one year ferred to in that paragraph within after the date of its receipt by the following three months, with- the Chairman of the Executive

out prejudice to the presentation within six months of the relevant instrument of acceptance.
5. Members of the Organiza-

Committee . ARTICLE 5 ORGANS

tion which are suspended from the exercise of the rights and privileges of Membership of the United Nations shall, upon request of the

There are established as the principal organs of the Organization : a General Council, an Executive Committee and a Secre-

latter, be suspended from the tariat.

rights and privileges of this Organization.
6. Members of the Organiza-

ARTICLE 6 THE GENERAL COUNCIL

tion which are expelled from the 1. The ultimate policy-making

United Nations shall automati- body of the Organization shall be

cally cease to be members of this the General Council in which each

Organization.

member shall have one representa-

7. With the approval of the tive and such alternates and General Assembly of the United advisers as may be necessary. Nations, members of the Organ- Each member shall have one vote ization which are not members of in the General Council , the United Nations, and which 2. The General Council shall be

have persistently violated the convened in regular session not principles of the Charter of the less than once a year by the ExUnited Nations may be suspended ecutive Committee provided, howfrom the rights and privileges of ever, that for three years after the Organization, or expelled from the Organization comes into being

59 Stat. 1031.

3042

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

the General Council shall be con- two-year term by the General vened in regular session not less Council at a regular session of the

than twice a year. It may be Council. A member may conconvened in special session when- tinue to hold office on the Execu-

ever the Executive Committee tive Committee during any such shall deem necessary ; and it shall period as may intervene between be convened in special session by the conclusion of its term of office

the Director-General within thirty and the first succeeding meeting days after a request for such a of the General Council at which

special session is received by the an election takes place. A mem-

Director-General from one-third ber shall be at all times eligible for

of the members of the Council.

re-election to the Executive Com-

3. At the opening meeting of mittee. If a vacancy occurs in the

each session of the General Coun- membership of the Executive cil, the Chairman of the Executive Committee between two sessions

Committee shall preside until the ofthe General Council, the ExecuGeneral Council has elected one tive Committee may fill the va-

of its members as Chairman for the cancy by itself appointing another

session.

member to hold office until the

4. The General Council shall next meeting of the Council. thereupon proceed to elect from 3. The Executive Committee

among its members a first Vice- shall elect a Chairman and a ViceChairman and a second Vice- Chairman from among its mem-

Chairman, and such other officers bers, the terms of office to be

as it may deem necessary .

determined by the General

ARTICLE 7 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Council. 4. Meetings of the Executive
Committee shall be convened :

1. The Executive Committee shall perform such functions as may be necessary to give effect to the policies of the General Council, and may make, between sessions of the General Council, policy decisions of an emergency nature which it shall pass on to the Director-General, who shall be guided thereby, and shall report to the Executive Committee
on the action which he has taken thereon. These decisions shall be subject to reconsideration by the General Council.
2. The Executive Committee of the General Council shall con-

(a) at the call of the Chairman, normally twice a month ;
(b) whenever any representative of a member of the Executive Committee shall request the convening of a meeting, by a letter addressed to the Director-
General, in which case the meeting shall be convened within seven days of the date of the receipt of the request ;
(c) in the case of a vacancy occurring in the Chairmanship , the Director-General shall con-
vene a meeting at which the first item on the agenda shall be the election of a Chairman.

sist of the representatives of nine 5. The Executive Committee members of the Organization. may, in order to investigate the Each member of the Executive situation in the field, either as a

Committee shall be elected for a body or through a delegation of

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

its members, visit camps, hostels who has not been nominated by

or assembly points within the con- the Committee. When a vacancy

trol of the Organization, and may occurs in the office of the Director-

give instructions to the Director- General the Executive Committee

General in consequence of the may appoint an Acting Director-

reports of such visits .

General to assume all the duties

6. The Executive Committee and functions of the office until a

shall receive the reports of the Director-General can be appointed

Director-General as provided in by the General Council . paragraph 6 of article 8 of this 3. The Director-General shall

Constitution, and, after considera- serve under a contract which

tion thereof, shall request the shall be signed on behalf of the

Director-General to transmit these Organization by the Chairman reports to the General Council of the Executive Committee and

with such comments as the Exec- it shall be a clause of such con-

utive Committee may consider tract that six months' notice of

appropriate. These reports and termination can be given on either such comments shall be trans- side . In exceptional circum-

mitted to all members of the stances, the Executive Committee,

General Council before its next subject to subsequent confirma-

regular session and shall be pub- tion by the General Council, lished . The Executive Commit- has the power to relieve the

tee may request the Director- Director-General of his duties by

General to submit such further a two-thirds majority vote of the reports as may be deemed nec- members if, in the Committee's

essary .

ARTICLE 8

ADMINISTRATION

opinion, his conduct is such as to warrant such action .
4. The staff of the Organization shall be appointed by the Director-

1. The chief administrative offi- General under regulations to be cer of the Organization shall be established by the General

the Director-General. He shall Council . be responsible to the General 5. The Director-General shall

Council and the Executive Com- be present, or be represented by mittee and shall carry out the one of his subordinate officers , administrative and executive func- at all meetings of the General tions of the Organization in ac- Council, or the Executive Comcordance with the decisions of the mittee and of all other committees General Council and the Execu- and sub-committees . He or his

tive Committee, and shall report representatives may participate

on the action taken thereon .

in any such meeting but shall

2. The Director-General shall have no vote.

be nominated by the Executive 6. (a) The Director-General

Committee and appointed by the shall prepare at the end of each General Council . If no person half-year period a report on the

acceptable to the General Council work of the Organization. The

is nominated by the Executive report prepared at the end of each Committee, the General Council alternate period of six months may proceed to appoint a person shall relate to the work of the

3043

3044

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Post, p. 3052.

Organization during the preced- ment or from any other auing year and shall give a full thority external to the Organizaaccount of the activities of the tion . They shall refrain from Organization during that period . any action which might reflect These reports shall be submitted on their position as international to the Executive Committee for officials responsible only to the consideration, and thereafter shall Organization . Each member of be transmitted to the General the Organization undertakes to Council together with any com- respect the exclusively internaments ofthe Executive Committee tional character of the responthereon, as provided by para- sibilities of the Director-General

graph 6 of article 7 of this Con- and the staff and not to seek to

stitution .

influence them in the discharge of

(b) At every special session of their responsibilities .

the General Council the DirectorGeneral shall present a statement of the work of the Organization

ARTICLE 10 FINANCE

since the last meeting.

1. The Director-General

shall

ARTICLE 9 STAFF

submit, through the Executive Committee, to the General Council an annual budget, covering the

1. The paramount considera- necessary administrative, operation in the employment of the tional and large-scale re-settlestaff and in the determination of ment expenditures of the Organthe conditions of service shall ization , and from time to time.

be the necessity of securing the such supplementary budgets as highest standards of efficiency, may be required . The Execucompetence and integrity . A fur- tive Committee shall transmit the

ther consideration in the em- budget to the General Council

ployment of the staff shall be with any remarks it may deem adherence to the principles laid appropriate. Upon final approval down in the present Constitution . of a budget by the General Council , Due regard shall be paid to the the total under each of these three importance of recruiting staff on headings- to wit, "administra-

an appropriate geographical basis , tive", "operational" and "large-

and of employing an adequate scale re-settlement" -shall be allo-

number of persons from the coun- cated tothe members in proportions

tries of origin of the displaced for each heading to be determined

persons .

from time to time by a two-thirds

2. No person shall be employed majority vote of the members of

by the Organization who is ex- the General Council present and cluded under Part II , other than voting. paragraph 5 , of Annex I to this * 2. Contributions shall be paya-

Constitution, from becoming the ble, as a result of negotiations un-

concern of the Organization.

dertaken at the request of mem-

3. In the performance of their bers between the Organization and

duties, the Director-General and such members, in kind or in such

the staff shall not seek or receive currency as may be provided for

instructions from any Govern- in a decision by the General Coun-

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

3045

cil, having regard to currencies in 7. The General Council may,

which the anticipated expendi- nevertheless, permit such mem-

ture of the Organization will be bers to vote if it is satisfied that

effected from time to time, regard- the failure to pay is due to condi-

less of the currency in which the tions beyond the control of such

budget is expressed .

members .

3. Each member undertakes to 8. The administrative budget

contribute to the Organization its of the Organization shall be sub-

share of the administrative ex- mitted annually to the General

penses as determined and allo- Assembly of the United Nations

cated under paragraphs 1 and 2 for such review and recommenda-

of this article.

tion as the General Assembly may

4. Each member shall con- deem appropriate. The agreement

tribute to the operational under which the Organization expenditures except for large- shall be brought into relationship scale re-settlement expenditures- with the United Nations under as determined and allocated under article 3 of this Constitution

Ante, p. 3040.

paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article, may provide, inter alia, for the

subject to the requirements of the approval of the administrative

constitutional procedure of such budget of the Organization by the

members . The members under- General Assembly of the United

take to contribute to the large- Nations . scale re-settlement expenditures 9. Without prejudice to the

on a voluntary basis and subject provisions concerning supplemen-

to the requirements of their con- tary budgets in paragraph 1 of

stitutional procedure.

this article, the following excep-

5. A member of the Organiza- tional arrangements shall apply in

tion, which, after the expiration of respect of the financial year in

a period of three months following which this Constitution comes in-

the date of the coming into force to force:

of this Constitution, has not paid its financial contribution to the

(a ) the budget shall be the provisional budget set forth in

Organization for the first financial Annex II to this Constitution ;

year, shall have no vote in the and

General Council or the Executive

(b) the amounts to be contrib-

Committee until such contribution has been paid.

uted by the members shall be in the proportions set forth in

6. Subject to the provisions of Annex II to this Constitution .

paragraph 5 of this article, a

member of the Organization which

ARTICLE 11

is in arrears in the payment of its financial contributions to the Organization shall have no vote in the General Council or the Execu-

HEADQUARTERS AND OTHER OFFICES
1. The Organization shall estab-

tive Committee if the amount of lish its headquarters at Paris or at its arrears equals or exceeds the Geneva, as the General Council amount of the contributions due shall decide, and all meetings of

from it for the preceding one full the General Council and the Ex-

year.

ecutive Committee shall be held

Post, p. 3052.

3046

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

iz

DEL &A

at this headquarters , unless a ma- 2. (a ) The Organization shall

jority ofthe members ofthe General enjoy in the territory of each of Council or the Executive Commit- its members such privileges and tee have agreed, at a previous meet- immunities as may be necessary

ing or by correspondence with the for the exercise of its functions.

Director-General to meet else- and the fulfilment of its objectives .

where.

(b) Representatives of mem-

2. The Executive Committee bers, officials and administrative

may establish such regional and personnel of the Organization shall

other offices and representations similarly enjoy such privileges and

as may be necessary.

immunities as are necessary for

3. All offices and representations the independent exercise of their

shall be established only with the functions in connection with the

consent of the Government in Organization.

authority in the place of estab- 3. Such legal status, privileges

lishment .

and immunities shall be defined

ARTICLE 12 PROCEDURE

in an agreement to be prepared by the Organization after consultation with the Secretary-General

1. The General Council shall of the United Nations . The agree-

adopt its own rules of procedure, ment shall be open to accession by

following in general, the rules of all members and shall continue in

procedure of the Economic and force as between the Organization

Social Council of the United Na- and every member which accedes

tions , wherever appropriate, and to the agreement .

with such modifications as the General Council shall deem de-

ARTICLE 14

sirable . The Executive Commit-

RELATIONS WITH OTHER

tee shall regulate its own pro-

ORGANIZATIONS

cedure subject to any decisions of 1 . Subject to the provisions of

the General Council in respect the agreement to be negotiated

thereto .

with the United Nations, pursuant

2. Unless otherwise provided in to article 3 of this Constitution,

the Constitution or by action of the Organization may establish the General Council, motions shall such effective relationships as may

be carried by simple majority of be desirable with other interna-

the members present and voting tional organizations .

in the General Council and the 2. The Organization may as-

Executive Committee.

sume all or part of the functions ,

ARTICLE 13 ·

and acquire all or part of the resources, assets and liabilities of

STATUS, IMMUNITIES AND PRIVILEGES

any inter-governmental organization or agency, the purposes and

1. The Organization shall enjoy functions of which lie within the

in the territory of each of its scope of the Organization. Such

members such legal capacity as action may be taken either through

may be necessary for the exercise mutually acceptable arrangements

of its functions and the fulfilment with the competent authorities of

of its objectives.

such organizations or agencies, or

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

3047

pursuant to authority conferred 2. Subject to Article 96 of the

upon the Organization by inter- Charter of the United Nations and

national convention or agreement . of Chapter II of the Statute of the

ARTICLE 15

International Court of Justice , any question or dispute concern-

RELATIONSHIP WITH AUTHORITIES OF COUNTRIES OF LOCATION OF REFUGEES AND DIS-
PLACED PERSONS
The relationship of the Organi-

ing the interpretation or application of this Constitution shall be referred to the International Court
of Justice, unless the General Council or the parties to such

zation with the Governments or dispute agree to another mode of administrations of countries in settlement.

which displaced persons or refugees are located, and the conditions under which it will operate
in such countries , shall be determined by agreements to be nego-

ARTICLE 18 ENTRY INTO FORCE 1 . (a) States may become par-

tiated by it with such Governments ties to this Constitution by:

or administrations in accordance with the terms of this Constitution.

(i) signature without reservation as to approval ;
(ii) signature subject to ap-

ARTICLE 16

proval followed by acceptance ;

AMENDMENT OF CONSTITUTION

(iii) acceptance.

Texts of proposed amendments (b) acceptance shall be effected

to this Constitution shall be com- by the deposit of a formal instru-

municated by the Director-Gen- ment with the Secretary- General eral to members at least three of the United Nations. months in advance of their con- 2. This Constitution shall come sideration by the General Council . into force when at least fifteen Amendments shall come into effect States, ['] whose required contri-

when adopted by a two-thirds butions to Part I of the operational majority of the members of the budget as set forth in Annex II of

General Council present and vot- this Constitution amount to not ing and accepted by two -thirds of less than seventy-five per cent of the members in accordance with the total thereof, have become

theirrespective constitutional proc- parties to it . esses, provided, however, that 3. In accordance with Article
amendments involving new obli- 102 of the Charter of the United gations for members shall come Nations , the Secretary-General of

into force in respect of each the United Nations will register

member only on acceptance by it . this Constitution, when it has

ARTICLE 17

been signed, without reservation as to approval, on behalf of one

INTERPRETATION
1. The Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts of this Constitution shall be regarded as

State or upon deposit of the first instrument of acceptance .
4. The Secretary-General of the United Nations will inform States

equally authentic.

1 Entered into force Aug. 20, 1948.

59 Stat. 1052. 59 Stat. 1059.
Post, pp. 3132, 3133. Post, p. 3052. 59 Stat. 1052.

3048

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

parties to this Constitution , of the copy in the Chinese, English , date when it has come into force ; French, Russian and Spanish lanhe will also inform them of the guages . The original texts shall dates when other States have be- be deposited in the archives of the come parties to this Constitution . United Nations . The Secretary-
IN FAITH WHEREOF the under- General of the United Nations will

signed , duly authorized for that send certified copies of the texts

purpose , have signed this Con- to each of the signatory Govern-

stitution .

ments and, upon the coming into

DONE at Flushing Meadow, force of the Constitution and

New York, this fifteenth day of the election of a Director-General, December, one thousand nine to the Director-General of the

hundred and forty-six , in a single Organization .

ANNEX I

DEFINITIONS

given to traitors, quislings and

GENERAL PRINCIPLES 1. The following general prin-

war criminals, and nothing should be done to prevent in any way their surrender and

ciples constitute an integral part of the definitions as laid down in Post, pp. 3049, 3051. Parts I and II of this Annex.
(a) The main object of the

punishment . (d) It should be the concern
of the Organization to ensure that its assistance is not ex-

Organization will be to bring about a rapid and positive solu-

ploited in order to encourage subversive or hostile activities

tion of the problem of bona fide directed against the Govern-

refugees and displaced persons , which shall be just and equitable to all concerned.

ment of any of the United Nations .
(e) It should be the concern

(b) The main task concerning displaced persons is to encour-

of the Organization to ensure that its assistance is not ex-

age and assist in every way ploited by persons in the case

possible their early return to of whom it is clear that they

their countries of origin, having are unwilling to return to their

regard to the principles laid countries of origin because they

down in paragraph (c) (ii) of prefer idleness to facing the

the resolution adopted by the General Assembly of the United

hardships of helping in the reconstruction of their countries,

Nations on 12 February 1946 regarding the problem of refu-

or by persons who intend to settle in other countries for

Post, p. 3054.

gees (Annex III) . (c) As laid down in the
resolution adopted by the

purely economic reasons, thus
qualifying as emigrants . On the other hand it

Economic and Social Council on 16 February 1946 , ['] no international assistance should be

should equally be the concern of the Organization to ensure that no bona fide and deserving

1 United Nations. Economic and Social Council, Official Records , First Year: First Session , pp. 99-103. Church House, Westminster, London.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC . 16, 1946

3049

refugee or displaced person is of this Annex, the term " refugee" deprived of such assistance as applies to a person who has left, it may be in a position to offer . or who is outside of, his country
(g) The Organization should of nationality or of former haendeavour to carry out its bitual residence, and who , whether functions in such a way as to or not he had retained his nationavoid disturbing friendly rela- ality, belongs to one of the followtions between nations . In the ing categories :

pursuit of this objective , the Organization should exercise special care in cases in which the re-establishment or re-settlement of refugees or displaced persons might be contemplated , either in countries contiguous to their respective countries of origin or in non-self-governing countries. The Organization should give due weight, among other factors, to any evidence of genuine apprehension and concern felt in regard to such plans , in the former case, by the country of origin of the persons involved, or, in the latter case, by the indigenous population of the non-self-governing country in question .

(a ) victims of the nazi or fascist regimes or of regimes which took part on their side in the second world war, or
of the quisling or similar regimes which assisted them against the United Nations , whether enjoying international status as refugees or not;
(b) Spanish Republicans and other victims of the Falangist regime in Spain, whether enjoying international status as refugees or not;
(c) persons who were considered refugees before the outbreak of the second world war, for reasons of race, religion, nationality or political opinion. 2. Subject to the provisions of

2. To ensure the impartial and sections C and D and of Part II

equitable application of the above of this Annex regarding the exclu-

principles and of the terms of the sion of certain categories of per-

definition which follows, some sons, including war criminals, quis-

special system of semi-judicial lings and traitors, from the benefits

machinery should be created , with of the Organization, the term

appropriate constitution , proce- "refugee " also applies to a person ,

dure and terms of reference.

other than a displaced person as

PART I

defined in section B of this Annex, who is outside of his country of

Refugees and displaced persons within the meaning ofthe resolution adopted by the Economic and Social Council ofthe United Nations on 16 February 1946.

nationality or former habitual residence, and who , as a result of events subsequent to the outbreak of the second world war, is unable or unwilling to avail himself of the protection of the Government of

SECTION A- DEFINITION OF REFUGEES

his country of nationality or former nationality .
3. Subject to the provisions of

1. Subject to the provisions of section D and of Part II of this sections C and D and of Part II Annex, the term " refugee" also

Post, pp. 3050, 3051 . Post, pp. 3050, 3051.

3050

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

applies to persons who, having 2, paragraph 1 (a) of this Constitu-

sted

Ante, p. 3039.

resided in Germany or Austria, tion , and subject to the provision

and being of Jewish origin or of paragraph (c) , sub-paragraphs

foreigners or stateless persons, (ii) and (iii) of the General As-

were victims of nazi persecution sembly resolution of 12 February

Post, p. 3054.

and were detained in, or were 1946 regarding the problem of obliged to flee from, and were refugees (Annex III) .

subsequently returned to , one of those countries as a result of SECTION C-CONDITIONS UNDER

enemy action, or of war circumstances, and have not yet been firmly resettled therein .
4. The term "refugee" also ap-

WHICH "REFUGEES" AND "DISPLACED PERSONS" WILL BECOME THE CONCERN OF THE ORGANIZATION

plies to unaccompanied children 1. In the case of all the above
who are war orphans or whose parents have disappeared , and who categories except those mentioned
are outside their countries of in section A, paragraphs 1 (6) and
3 of this Annex, persons will beorigin . Such children, 16 years of
age or under, shall be given all come the concern of the Organiza-
tion in the sense of the resolution possible priority assistance , including , normally, assistance in adopted by the Economic and

repatriation in the case of those Social Council on 16 February

whose nationality can be deter- 1946 if they can be repatriated ,

mined . SECTION B- DEFINITION OF DISPLACED PERSONS

and the help of the Organization is required in order to provide for their repatriation, or if they have definitely, in complete freedom

and after receiving full knowledge The term "displaced person"
of the facts, including adequate applies to a person who , as a
result of the actions of the authori- information from the Govern-

ties of the regimes mentioned in ments of their countries of na-

Part I , section A, paragraph 1 (a ) tionality or former habitual resi-

of this Annex has been deported dence , expressed valid objections from , or has been obliged to leave to returning to those countries .

his country of nationality or of former habitual residence, such as

(a) The following shall be considered as valid objections :

persons who were compelled to undertake forced labour or who

(i) persecution , or fear, based on reasonable grounds of per-

were deported for racial, religious secution because of race , reli-

Post, p. 3051.

or political reasons . Displaced persons will only fall within the mandate of the Organization subject to the provisions of sections C and D of Part I and to the provisions of Part II of this Annex.

gion,nationality or political opinions, provided these opinions are not in conflict with the principles of the United Nations, as laid down in the Preamble of the Charter of the United

59 Stat. 1035.

If the reasons for their displace- Nations ;

ment have ceased to exist, they should be repatriated as soon as possible in accordance with article

(ii) objections of a political nature judged by the Organization to be "valid" , as contem-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

3051

plated in paragraph 8 (a) ¹ of to those indicated in paragraph the report of the Third Com- 1 (a) of this section . mittee of the General Assembly

as adopted by the Assembly on SECTION D-CIRCUMSTANCES IN

12 February 1946 .

WHICH REFUGEES AND DIS-

(iii) in the case of persons fall- PLACED PERSONS WILL CEASE

ing within the category men- TO BE THE CONCERN OF THE

tioned in section A, paragraphs ORGANIZATION

1 (a) and 1 (c) compelling family reasons arising out of previous persecution, or, compelling reasons of infirmity or illness .

Refugees or displaced persons will cease to be the concern of the
Organization :

(b) The following shall normally be considered "adequate information": information re-

(a ) when they have returned to the countries of their nationality in United Nations terri-

garding conditions in the countries of nationality of the refugees and displaced persons concerned , communicated to them directly

tory, unless their former habitual residence to which they wish to return is outside their country of nationality; or

by representatives of the Governments of these countries , who

(b) when they have acquired a new nationality ; or

shall be given every facility for visiting camps and assembly centres of refugees and displaced
persons in order to place such information before them.

(c ) when they have, in the determination of the Organization become otherwise firmly established ; or
(d) when they have unreason-

2. In the case of all refugees ably refused to accept the

falling within the terms of Section A paragraph 1 (b) of this Annex, persons will become the concern of

proposals of the Organization for their re-settlement or repatria-
tion ; or

the Organization in the sense of the resolution adopted by the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations on 16 Febru-

(e) when they are making no substantial effort towards earning their living when it is possible for them to do so , or

ary 1946, so long as the Falangist regime in Spain continues . Should that regime be replaced by a democratic regime they will have

when they are exploiting the assistance of the Organization .
PART II

to produce valid objections against returning to Spain corresponding

Persons who will not be the concern of the Organization.

¹ Paragraph 8 (a)

1. War criminals, quislings and

"In answering the representative of traitors .

Belgium, the Chairman stated that it 2. Any other persons who can

was implied that the international be shown:

body would judge what were, or what

were not, ' valid objections' ; and that such objections clearly might be of a political nature."
[Footnote in the original.]

(a) to have assisted the
enemy in persecuting civil populations of countries, Members of the United Nations ; or

Ante, p. 3049.

3052

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

(b) to have voluntarily assisted the enemy forces since the

avoid falling into the hands of Allied armies.

outbreak of the second world war in their operations against the United Nations.¹ 3. Ordinary criminals who are extraditable by treaty . 4. Persons of German ethnic

5. Persons who are in receipt of financial support and protection from their country of nationality, unless their country of nationality requests international assistance for them.

origin, whether German nationals or members of German minorities in other countries , who :
(a) have been or may be transferred to Germany from other countries;

6. Persons who, since the end of hostilities in the second world war :
(a) have participated in any organization having as one of its purposes the overthrow by armed force of the Government

(b) have been, during the of their country of origin , being 1
second world war, evacuated a Member of the United

from Germany to other countries ;

Nations ; or the overthrow by armed force of the Government

(c) have fled from , or into , of any other Member of the

Germany, or from their places United Nations, or have partici-

of residence into countries other pated in any terrorist organiza-

%

than Germany in order to tion ;

1 Mere continuance of normal and peaceful duties, not performed with the specific purpose of aiding the enemy against the Allies or against the civil population of territory in enemy occupation , shall not be considered to constitute "voluntary assistance." Nor shall acts of general humanity , such as care of wounded or dying, be so considered except in cases where help of this nature given to enemy nationals could equally well have been given to Allied nationals and was purposely withheld from them.
[Footnote in the original .]

(b) have become leaders of movements hostile to the Government of their country of origin being a Member of the United Nations or sponsors of
movements encouraging refugees not to return to their country of origin ;
(c) at the time of application for assistance, are in the military or civil service of a foreign State.

ANNEX II

BUDGET AND CONTRIBUTIONS a sum of 5,000,000 United States

FOR THE FIRST FINANCIAL dollars for large-scale re-settle-

YEAR

ment expenses. Any unspent bal-

1. The provisional budget for ance under these headings shall be

the first financial year shall be the carried over to the corresponding

sum of 4,800,000 United States heading as a credit in the budget dollars for administrative ex- of the next financial year.

penses, and a sum of 151,060,500 2. These sums, (except for largeUnited States dollars for opera- scale re-settlement expenses ) , shall

tional expenses (except for large- be contributed by the members in scale re-settlement expenses) , and the following proportions:

BHOE LNT R BB NA AD MA

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

A-FOR ADMINISTRATIVE

Country

Percentage

Country

EXPENSES

Venezuela . · Percentage Yugoslavia ·

0. 27 0. 33

Afghanistan .

0. 05

Argentina . · ·

1. 85

100. 00

Australia

1. 97

Belgium · Bolivia . · Brazil
Byelorussian

Soviet

Socialist

1. 35 0. 08 1. 85

B-FOR OPERATIONAL EXPENSES (EXCEPT FOR LARGE-SCALE RESETTLE-

Republic . Canada

Chile · China · Colombia . Costa Rica Cuba Czechoslovakia Denmark .

Dominican Republic Ecuador · Egypt . El Salvador .
Ethiopia · France · · Greece . Guatemala Haiti Honduras Iceland . India Iran

Iraq Lebanon Liberia .
Luxembourg · Mexico .
Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua
Norway · Panama Paraguay . Peru .

Philippine Republic Poland .

Saudi Arabia Sweden ·

Syria ·

Turkey . Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic. Union of South Africa

Union of Soviet Socialist Re-

publics . United Kingdom.

United States of America

Uruguay

·

0.22 MENT)

3. 20 Country

0.45 Afghanistan . · 6. 00 Argentina . 0.37 Australia ·

0.04 Belgium · 0.29 Bolivia .

0.90 Brazil

0.79 Byelorussian 0.05 Republic · 0.05 Canada . ·

Soviet

0. 79 Chile . · ·

0.05 China

0.08 Colombia .

6. 00 Costa Rica

0.17 Cuba

0.05 Czechoslovakia

0.04 Denmark .

0.04 Dominican Republic 0.04 Ecuador

3. 95 Egypt . 0.45 El Salvador .

0. 17 Ethiopia 0.06 France .

0.04 Greece .

0.05 Guatemala 0. 63 Haiti .

1. 40 Honduras .

0.50 Iceland . · 0.04 India . ·

0.50 Iran

0.05 Iraq 0.04 Lebanon · 0. 20 Liberia . ·

0.29 Luxembourg · 0.95 Mexico . .

0.08 Netherlands . 2. 35 New Zealand ·

0. 12 Nicaragua 0.91 Norway ·
Panama ·

0.84 Paraguay . 1. 12 Peru .

Philippines 6. 34 Poland .

11. 48 Saudi Arabia · 39.89 Sweden . ·

0.18 Syria.

Percentage 0.03 1.50 1.76 1.00 0.07 1.50
Socialist 0. 16 3. 50 0. 39 2.50 0. 32 0.02 0.24 0.80 0.68 0. 04 0. 04 0.68 0. 03 0.07 4. 10 0. 15 0. 04 0. 02 0.02 0.02 3. 66 0.39 0. 15 0. 05 0.02 0. 04 0.54 0.90 0.44 0.02 0.44 0. 04 0. 02 0. 17 0. 24 0.61 0.07 2. 20 0. 10

3053

3054

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Country

Percentage Country

Percentage

Turkey .

0.88 Yugoslavia .

0.23

Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Re-

New Members.

1. 92

public Union of South Africa .

0.62 1. 00

100.00

Union of Soviet Socialist Re-

3. Contributions to large-scale

publics . United Kingdom United States of America .

4.69 re-settlement expenses shall be 14. 75 45.75 governed by the provisions of

Ante, p. 3045.

Uruguay Venezuela .

0. 15 article 10, paragraph 4 of this

0.23 Constitution.

8%

ANNEX III

RESOLUTION ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY ON 12 FEBRUARY 1946

(ii) no refugees or displaced persons who have finally and definitely, in complete freedom

(document A/45 )

and after receiving full knowl-

THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY ,
RECOGNIZING that the problem of refugees and displaced persons of all categories is one of immediate urgency and recognizing the necessity of clearly distinguishing between genuine refugees and displaced persons on the one hand, and the war criminals, quislings and traitors referred to in paragraph (d) below, on the other :
(a) DECIDES to refer this problem to the Economic and Social Council for thorough examination in all its aspects under item 10 of the agenda for the first session of the Council and for report to the second part of the first session of the General Assembly ;
(b) RECOMMENDS to the Economic and Social Council that it establish a special committee for the purpose of carrying out promptly the examination and preparation of the report referred to in paragraph (a) ; and
(c) RECOMMENDS to the Economic and Social Council that it take into consideration in this matter the following principles :

edge of the facts, including adequate information from the Governments of their countries of origin, expressed valid objections to returning to their countries of origin and who do not come within the provisions of paragraph (d) below, shall be compelled to return to their country of origin . The future of such refugees or displaced persons shall become the concern of whatever international
body may be recognized or established as a result of the
report referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b ) above , except in cases where the Government of
the country where they are established has made an
arrangement with this body to assume the complete cost of their maintenance and the re-
sponsibility for their protection ; (iii) the main task concern-
ing displaced persons is to encourage and assist in every way possible their early return to their countries of origin. Such assistance may take the form of promoting the conclusion of bilateral arrangements for

(i) this problem is inter- mutual assistance in the repa-

national in scope and nature ;

triation of such persons, having

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION--DEC . 16, 1946

regard to the principles laid (e) CONSIDERS that Germans

down in paragraph (c) (ii ) being transferred to Germany

above ;

from other States or who fled to

(d) CONSIDERS that no action other States from Allied troops ,

taken as a result of this resolution do not fall under the action of this shall be of such a character as to declaration in so far as their

interfere in any way with the surrender and punishment of war
criminals, quislings and traitors, in conformity with present or

situation may be decided by Allied forces of occupation in Germany, in agreement with the

future international arrangements Governments of the respective

or agreements ;

countries .

3055

DE

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

3057

CONSTITUTION DE L'ORGANISATION INTERNATIONALE
POUR LES REFUGIES

NATIONS UNIES Lake Success, New-York
1946

3058

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

CONSTITUTION

DE L'ORGANISATION INTERNATIONALE POUR LES REFUGIES

PREAMBULE

leur réinstallation et réétablissement soient effectivement ter-

Les Gouvernements qui ad- minés, doivent être protégés dans

hèrent à la présente Constitution, leurs droits et intérêts légitimes,

RECONNAISSANT :

recevoir aide et assistance et,

que les réfugiés et personnes dans toute la mesure du possible,

déplacées authentiques constituent être employés utilement, afin d'éun problème urgent dont le carac- viter les conséquences funestes et

tère et la portée sont d'ordre in- antisociales qu'entraîne l'oisiveté

ternational ;

prolongée ; et

qu'en ce qui concerne les per- que doivent être imputés , dans

sonnes déplacées, la principale la mesure du possible , à l'Alletâche à accomplir doit être d'- magne et au Japon les frais de

encourager et de seconder par rapatriement des personnes qui , tous les moyens possibles leur du fait de ces deux Puissances, ont

prompt retour dans leur pays dû quitter les pays victimes de

d'origine ;

l'occupation ;

que les réfugiés et personnes ONT CONVENU:

déplacées authentiques doivent re-
cevoir une aide internationale afin de pouvoir retourner dans le pays dont ils ont la nationalité ou dans

pour atteindre aussi rapidement que possible les buts énoncés cidessus, d'établir, et établissent

lequel ils avaient antérieurement par les présentes , un organisme

leur résidence habituelle, ou trou- n'ayant pas de caractère perma-

nent qui prendra le nom d'Or-

ver un nouveau autre lieu, dans

floeyser codnadnistiounns

ganisation

internationale

pour

les

prévues par la présente Constitu- réfugiés et constituera une insti-

tion ; ou, dans le cas des Républi- tution spécialisée qui devra être
reliée à l'Organisation des Nations cains espagnols, de s'établir tem-
Unies ; et en conséquence, porairement afin de pouvoir ren-

trer en Espagne lorsqu'un régime démocratique aura succédé au régime phalangiste actuel ;
que la réinstallation et le ré-

ONT ADOPTÉ LES ARTICLES VANTS :
ARTICLE 1

SUI-

établissement des réfugiés et des

MANDAT

personnes déplacées ne doivent Le mandat de l'Organisation

être envisagés que dans des cas s'étendra aux réfugiés et personnes

tels que ceux qui sont nettement déplacées , conformément aux prin-

définis par la Constitution ;

cipes , définitions et conditions

que les réfugiés et personnes figurant à l'Annexe I, qui est déplacées authentiques , en at- jointe à la Constitution et en fait tendant que leur rapatriement ou partie intégrante.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION -DEC. 16, 1946

ARTICLE 2

ment les vêtements et les moy-

FONCTIONS ET POUVOIRS
1. L'Organisation doit , conformément aux buts et principes énoncés dans la Charte des Nations Unies, se charger du rapatriement ; de l'identification , de l'inscription et du classement des personnes relevant de sa compétence, conformément aux dispositions de l'Annexe I ; des soins et de l'assistance à leur fournir ; de la protection juridique et politique à laquelle elles ont droit ; de leur transport ainsi que de leur réinstallation et de leur réétablissement dans les pays qui peuvent et qui désirent les accueillir. Ces fonctions seront exercées en vue :
a) d'encourager et de seconder par tous les moyens possibles le prompt retour, dans le pays dont elles ont la nationalité ou dans lequel elles avaient autrefois leur résidence habituelle,
des personnes qui relèvent de l'Organisation , en tenant compte des principes établis par la résolution sur les réfugiés et les personnes déplacées , adoptée par l'Assemblée générale des

ens de transport nécessaires ; b) en ce qui concerne les
personnes dont le rapatriement n'a pas lieu en vertu du paragraphe a) du présent article, de faciliter:
i) leur réétablissement dans les pays de résidence provisoire ;
ii) l'émigration , la réinstallation et le réétablissement de personnes seules ou de familles dans d'autres pays ; et
iii ) dans la mesure où cela sera nécessaire et possible , selon les ressources disponibles et sous réserve des dispositions financières pertinentes, l'étude, l'établissement ou l'exécution de projets de réétablissement en groupe ou en grand.
c) dans le cas des Républicains espagnols , de les aider à s'établir temporairement jusqu'au moment où un régime démocratique sera établi en Espagne.
2. Pour s'acquitter de ces fonc-

Nations Unies le 12 février 1946 tions , l'Organisation peut se livrer

(Annexe III) , ainsi que des principes énoncés dans le Préambule, et d'aider à ces fins
par tous les moyens, notamment en leur fournissant une
aide matérielle , des vivres suffisants pour une période de trois mois à dater du moment où elles quittent leur résidence actuelle, à condition qu'elles retournent dans un pays souffrant encore des effets de l'occupation ennemie pendant la guerre, et que ces vivres soient distribués sous les auspices de l'Organisation, et en leur procurant égale-
68706-52- PT. III- -29

à toutes les activités appropriées et, à cette fin, est habilitée :
a) à recevoir et à débourser des fonds privés et publics ;
b) à se procurer, dans la mesure nécessaire, des terrains et des bâtiments, soit en les prenant à bail, soit en les acceptant comme dons, soit, dans des circonstances exceptionnelles seulement, en les achetant ; et à détenir ces terrains et bâtiments ou à en disposer en les donnant à bail, en les vendant ou de toute autre façon ;
c) à acquérir, à conserver et à

3059

3060

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

céder tous autres biens qui lui seront nécessaires ;
d) à assumer des responsabilités et à passer des contrats, notamment des contrats soit

désirent accueillir des réfugiés ou des personnes déplacées , en vue d'assurer dans la mesure nécessaire la protection de leurs droits et intérêts légitimes ; et,

avec des Gouvernements , soit avec des autorités de contrôle

k) d'une manière générale, à se livrer à toutes autres activi-

ou d'occupation, aux termes tés légales conformes à ses buts.

desquels lesdites autorités continueraient, ou se chargeraient,

ARTICLE 3

d'assurer en tout ou partie le RELATIONS AVEC L'ORGANISAsoin et l'entretien des réfugiés TION DES NATIONS UNIES

et personnes déplacées se trou- Les relations entre l'Organisa-

vant dans les territoires soumis tion internationale pour les réfu-

à leur autorité, sous la surveil- giés et l'Organisation des Nations

lance de l'Organisation ;

Unies sont établies par un accord

e) à mener des négociations conclu entre les deux Organisa-

et à conclure des accords avec tions comme il est prévu aux

des Gouvernements ;

Articles 57 et 63 de la Charte des

f) à entrer en consultation et Nations Unies.

à collaborer avec des organismes publics ou privés , chaque fois que cela paraît utile, dans la

ARTICLE 4 COMPOSITION

mesure où ces organismes pour- 1. Les Membres de l'Organisa-

suivent les mêmes buts que tion des Nations Unies peuvent

l'Organisation et se conforment devenir membres de l'Organisa-

aux principes de l'Organisation tion internationale pour les réfu-

des Nations Unies ;

giés. Les autres Etats pacifiques

g) à favoriser la conclusion qui ne sont pas Membres des d'accords bilatéraux d'assistance Nations Unies peuvent également

mutuelle dans l'oeuvre de rapa- devenir membres de l'Organisation

triement des personnes déplacées, sur la recommandation du Comité

en tenant compte des principes exécutif, par un vote à la majorité énoncés au paragraphe c) ii ) de des deux tiers des membres pré-

la résolution adoptée par l'As- sents et votant du Conseil général,

semblée générale des Nations sous réserve des stipulations de Unies, le 12 février 1946 , ayant l'accord conclu entre l'Organisa-

trait à la question des réfugiés tion et l'Organisation des Nations

(Annexe III) ;

Unies , approuvées conformément

h) à recruter du personnel, à l'article 3 de la présente Conconformément aux dispositions stitution .

de l'article 9 de la présente 2. Sous réserve des dispositions

Constitution ;

du paragraphe 1 du présent article,

i) à prendre toute initiative seront membres de l'Organisation

de nature à faciliter l'accom- les Etats dont le représentant

plissement des tâches de l'Or- dûment autorisé aura signé la

ganisation ;

Constitution sans formuler de

j) à conclure des accords avec réserves quant à son acceptation les pays qui peuvent et qui ultérieure , et les Etats qui auront

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

déposé leurs instruments d'accep- cice de leurs droits et privilèges de tation auprès du Secrétaire géné- Membres de l'Organisation des ral, après que leur représentant Nations Unies sont, sur demande

dûment autorisé aura signé cette de l'Organisation des Nations

Constitution en formulant une Unies , suspendus de leurs droits

réserve sur ce point .

et privilèges de membres de l'Or-

3. Sous réserve des dispositions ganisation internationale pour les du paragraphe 1 du présent article, réfugiés . les Etats dont les représentants 6. Les membres de l'Organisa-

n'auraient pas signé la Constitu- tion qui sont exclus de l'Organisation mentionnée au paragraphe tion des Nations Unies perdent précédent ou qui, après l'avoir automatiquement leur qualité de signée, n'auraient pas déposé dans membre de l'Organisation . les six mois leur instrument d'ac- 7. Les membres de l'Organisa-

ceptation, pourront cependant être tion qui ne sont pas Membres de admis comme membres de l'Or- l'Organisation des Nations Unies ganisation dans les cas suivants: et qui ont enfreint de façon per-
a) s'ils s'engagent à verser sistante les principes de la Charte leurs contributions arriérées con- des Nations Unies, peuvent, sous formément au barème prévu ; ou réserve de l'approbation de l'As-
b) s'ils présentent à l'Organi- semblée générale des Nations sation un plan pour l'accueil de Unies, être suspendus des droits réfugiés ou de personnes dé- et privilèges de l'Organisation ou
placées en qualité d'immigrants en être exclus par le Conseil

dans leurs territoires respectifs ; général. 8. Tout membre de l'Organisa-
dans ce cas , le nombre et les conditions d'établissement de tion qui enfreint de manière
ces immigrants devraient être réitérée les principes énoncés dans

tels qu'au jugement de l'Or- la présente Constitution peut, par

ganisation ils imposent à l'Etat décision du Conseil général, enen question une dépense équiva- courir la suspension des droits et lente ou approximativement privilèges attachés à la qualité de

équivalente à la contribution au membre de l'Organisation et, avec

budget de l'Organisation qu'il l'assentiment de l'Assemblée génédevrait verser, conformément au rale de l'Organisation des Nations

barème des contributions prévu . Unies , la perte de cette qualité. 9. Tout membre de l'Organisa-
4. Les Etats qui, au moment où tion s'engage à donner son appui

ils signeront la Constitution, ex- général à l'oeuvre de l'Organisaprimeront le désir de se prévaloir tion.

de la disposition b) du paragraphe 10. Tout membre peut à n'im-

3 du présent article, pourront présenter dans les trois mois le porte quel moment donner au
Président du Comité exécutif un plan prévu dans ce même para-
graphe, sans préjudice du dépôt préavis de démission par écrit . Ce

de leur instrument d'acceptation préavis prendra effet un an après

dans les six mois .

la date à laquelle il aura été reçu

5. Les membres de l'Organisa- par le Président du Comité exétion qui sont suspendus de l'exer- cutif.

3061

3062

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

ARTICLE 5 ORGANES

ARTICLE 7 COMITE EXECUTIF

Les principaux organes de l'Or- 1. Le Comité exécutif exercera

ganisation seront: le Conseil géné- les fonctions qui pourront être ral, le Comité exécutif et le Sec- nécessaires pour mettre à exécu-

rétariat .

tion les décisions du Conseil géné-

ARTICLE 6 CONSEIL GENERAL

ral sur la politique à suivre ; il pourra, dans l'intervalle des sessions du Conseil général, prendre

1. La direction suprême de l'Or- des décisions ayant un caractère

ganisation est assurée par le Con- d'urgence , qu'il communiquera au seil général, au sein duquel chaque Directeur général . Ce dernier

membre aura un représentant et s'en inspirera et fera rapport au les suppléants et conseillers qu'il Comité exécutif au sujet des

peut juger nécessaires . Chaque mesures qu'il aura prises pour

membre dispose d'une voix au appliquer lesdites décisions ; ces

Conseil général.

décisions seront sujettes à un

2. Le Conseil général est con- nouvel examen par le Conseil

voqué au moins une fois par an, général. en session ordinaire, par le Comité 2. Le Comité exécutif du Con-

exécutif. Il est entendu toutefois seil général se compose des repréque , au cours des trois premières sentants de neuf membres de
années qui suivront la création l'Organisation . Les membres du de l'Organisation, il sera convoqué Comité exécutif sont élus pour en session ordinaire au moins deux deux ans par le Conseil général au fois par an . Il peut être convoqué cours d'une session ordinaire . Un

en session extraordinaire chaque membre peut continuer à exercer fois que le Comité exécutif le ses fonctions au sein du Comité

jugera nécessaire ; il sera convoqué exécutif pendant la période qui en session extraordinaire par le s'écoulera entre la date d'expiraDirecteur général dans un délai tion de son mandat et la réunion

de trente jours à compter de la suivante du Conseil général au date à laquelle le Directeur général cours de laquelle on procédera à

aura reçu une demande à cet effet, une élection . Un membre est à

formulée par un tiers des membres tout moment rééligible au Comité

du Conseil.

exécutif. S'il se produit une

3. Lors de la séance d'ouverture vacance au Comité exécutif dans

de chaque session du Conseil l'intervalle qui sépare deux sessions général, le Président du Comité du Conseil général, le Comité exécutif exerce la présidence exécutif peut y pourvoir en non-

jusqu'à ce que le Conseil général mant lui-même un autre membre,

ait élu un de ses membres comme qui l'occupera jusqu'à la prochaine

Président de la session.

séance du Conseil.

4. Le Conseil général élit ensuite 3. Le Comité exécutif choisit

parmi ses membres un premier parmi ses membres un Président et

Vice-Président et un second Vice- un Vice-Président, dont la durée

Président, ainsi que tous autres de mandat sera fixée par le Conseil

membres de son Bureau qu'il juge général.

nécessaires .

4. Le Comité exécutif se réunit:

P:

BADP

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

a) sur convocation du Prési-

ARTICLE 8

dent, d'ordinaire deux fois par mois ;

ADMINISTRATION

b) chaque fois que l'un des 1. Le plus haut fonctionnaire représentants d'un membre du de l'Organisation est le Directeur

Comité exécutif demande la con- général. Il est responsable devant

vocation d'une réunion par let- le Conseil général et le Comité tre adressée au Directeur exécutif et il administre et dirige

général ; dans ce cas, la réunion l'Organisation conformément aux sera convoquée dans un délai de décisions du Conseil général et du sept jours à compter de la date Comité exécutif ; il fait un rapport

de la réception de ladite de- sur les mesures prises

mande ;

appliquer ces décisions .

pour

c) si la présidence se trouve 2. Le Directeur général est pré-

vacante, le Directeur général senté par le Comité exécutif et

convoque une réunion dont nommé par le Conseil général.

l'ordre du jour comporte comme Si le Comité exécutif ne présente

premier point l'élection d'un pas de candidat que le Conseil Président.
général puisse accepter, celui- ci

5. En vue de se rendre compte peut nommer une personne qui sur place de la situation , le Comité n'a pas été présentée par le exécutif peut, soit en corps con- Comité. Si le poste de Directeur stitué, soit par une délégation de général devient vacant, le Comité

ses membres, visiter les camps, exécutif peut nommer un Directeur

centres ou points de rassemble- général par intérim qui assumera ment relevant du contrôle de toutes les charges et fonctions de

l'Organisation et donner au ce poste jusqu'à ce que le Conseil

Directeur général les instructions général puisse nommer un

que lui suggèrent les rapports Directeur général.

rédigés à la suite de ces visites .

3. Le Directeur général remplit

6. Le Comité exécutif reçoit les ses fonctions aux termes d'un

rapports du Directeur général, contrat signé, au nom de l'Or-

comme il est prévu au paragraphe ganisation , par le Président du

6 de l'article 8 de la présente Comité exécutif ; ce contrat conConstitution ; après en avoir pris tiendra une clause de résiliation connaissance, il invite le Directeur avec préavis de six mois valable

général à les transmettre au Con- pour les deux parties. Dans des

seil général, avec les commentaires circonstances exceptionnelles , et

que le Comité exécutif peut juger sous réserve de confirmation ulté-

appropriés. Ces rapports et ces rieure de la part du Conseil

commentaires sont transmis à général, le Comité exécutif a

tous les membres du Conseil pouvoir de relever le Directeur

général avant la session ordinaire général de ses fonctions, par un

suivante de ce Conseil, et sont vote de la majorité des deux tiers

ensuite publiés . Le Comité des membres si, de l'avis du

exécutif peut demander au Di- Comité , la conduite du Directeur

recteur général de soumettre tous général justifie une telle décision.

rapports supplémentaires qu'il 4. Le personnel de l'Organisa-

peut juger nécessaires.

tion est nommé par le Directeur

3063

3064

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

général, selon les règles à établir nel sur une base géographique

par le Conseil général.

équitable et à employer un nombre

5. Le Directeur général assiste, approprié de personnes apparte-

ou se fait représenter par l'un de nant aux pays d'origine des perses subordonnés , à toutes les sonnes déplacées . réunions du Conseil général, du 2. L'Organisation ne pourra Comité exécutif et de tous les employer de personnes qui sont autres comités et sous-comités . exclues de sa compétence aux

Lui-même, ou son représentant , termes de la deuxième partie de

peut prendre part, sans droit de l'Annexe I de la présente Consti-

vote, à ces réunions .

tution (exception faite des dis-

6. a) Le Directeur général pré- positions du paragraphe 5 de cette

pare à l'expiration de chaque partie).

semestre un rapport sur les acti- 3. Dans l'accomplissement de vités de l'Organisation. Chaque leurs devoirs , le Directeur général année, le second de ces rapports et le personnel ne solliciteront ou semestriels devra porter sur les n'accepteront d'instructions d'autravaux de l'Organisation pour cun gouvernement ni d'aucune l'ensemble de l'année écoulée et autorité extérieure à l'Organisafournir un compte rendu com- tion. Ils s'abstiendront de tout plet de ses activités au cours de acte incompatible avec leur situcette période . Ces rapports sont ation de fonctionnaires intersoumis pour examen au Comité nationaux qui ne sont respon-

exécutif et transmis ensuite au sables qu'envers l'Organisation .

Conseil général , accompagnés des Chaque membre de l'Organisation

ww

commentaires du Comité exécutif, s'engage à respecter le caractère

comme il est prévu au paragraphe exclusivement international des

6 de l'article 7 de la présente devoirs du Directeur général et

Constitution.

du personnel et à ne pas chercher

b) Au cours de chaque session à les influencer dans l'exécution de

extraordinaire du Conseil général, leur tâche .

le Directeur général présente un exposé des activités de l'Organisation depuis la réunion précédente .

ARTICLE 10 FINANCES

ARTICLE 9

1. Le Directeur général soumet au Conseil général, par l'entremise

PERSONNEL

du Comité exécutif, un budget annuel pour couvrir les dépenses

1. En recrutant le personnel et nécessaires d'administration

en fixant les conditions de travail , d'exécution de l'Organisation , ainsi on tiendra compte, avant tout , de que ses dépenses afférentes aux la nécessité de s'assurer les services projets de réétablissement en grand, de personnes possédant les plus et, de temps à autre, les budgets hautes qualités d'expérience , de supplémentaires nécessaires . Le compétence et d'intégrité. On Comité exécutif transmet le bud-

veillera en outre à ne pas s'écarter get au Conseil général avec les des principes énoncés dans la observations qu'il estime approprésente Constitution . On tien- priées . Après approbation dé-

dra dûment compte de l'impor- finitive du budget par le Conseil tance qu'il y a à recruter le person- général, le total des montants

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

figurant sous les trois rubriques date de l'entrée en vigueur de la indiquées ci-dessus à savoir, "ad- présente Constitution, n'aura pas ministration", "exécution", "pro- versé sa contribution aux dépenses jets de réétablissement en grand"- de l'Organisation pour la première est réparti entre les membres et année financière, ne pourra voter, par rubrique, dans des proportions ni au Conseil général, ni au

qui sont fixées de temps à autre Comité exécutif, avant d'avoir

par un vote de la majorité des deux acquitté cette contribution .

tiers des membres du Conseil 6. Sous réserve des dispositions

général présents et votant.

du paragraphe 5 du présent article ,

2. Les contributions sont pa- tout membre de l'Organisation qui

yées, à la suite de négociations est en retard dans le paiement de engagées, sur la demande des sa contribution aux dépenses de

membres, entre l'Organisation et l'Organisation ne pourra voter, ni lesdits membres, en nature ou au Conseil général, ni au Comité

dans la monnaie qui sera fixée par exécutif, si le montant de ses une décision du Conseil général, arriérés est égal ou supérieur au

en tenant compte des monnaies montant des contributions dues

dans lesquelles il est à prévoir par ce membre pour l'année entière

que les dépenses de l'Organisation qui précède . seront effectuées de temps à autre, 7. Le Conseil général peut, né-

quelle que soit la monnaie dans anmoins, permettre à ces membres

laquelle le budget est exprimé . de voter , s'il arrive à la conclusion

3. Chaque membre s'engage à que le défaut de paiement est dû

contribuer aux dépenses adminis- à des conditions indépendantes de

tratives de l'Organisation, dans la volonté de ces membres . la proportion qui lui aura été 8. Le budget administratif de

fixée et assignée conformément l'Organisation est présenté chaque

aux paragraphes 1 et 2 du présent année à l'Assemblée générale des

article.

Nations Unies afin que celle-ci

4. Chaque membre contribue l'examine et formule à son sujet aux dépenses d'exécution- les dé- les recommandations qu'elle jupenses afférentes aux projets de gera appropriées . L'accord par réétablissement en grand excep- lequel l'Organisation sera reliée à tées dans la proportion qui lui l'Organisation des Nations Unies, est assignée conformément aux conformément à l'article 3 de la

paragraphes 1 et 2 du présent présente Constitution , peut préarticle et sous réserve des exigences voir, entre autres, l'approbation de la procédure constitutionelle de du budget administratif de l'Or-

ce membre. Les membres s'enga- ganisation par l'Assemblée génégent à contribuer aux dépenses rale des Nations Unies . afférentes aux projets de rééta- 9. Les dispositions exception-

blissement en grand sur une base nelles suivantes s'appliqueront à volontaire et sous réserve des exi- l'exercice financier au cours duquel

gences de leur procédure constitu- la présente Constitution entrera

tionnelle.

en vigueur, sans préjudice des

5. Tout membre de l'Organisa- dispositions relatives aux budgets

tion qui, après l'expiration d'un supplémentaires figurant au para-

délai de trois mois à compter de la graphe 1 du présent article :

3065

3066

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

a) le budget sera le budget 2. Sauf dispositions contraires

provisoire prévu dans l'Annexe contenues dans la Constitution

II de la présente Constitution ; ou décidées par le Conseil géné-

et

ral, les motions sont adoptées à la

b) le montant des contribu- simple majorité des membres pré-

tions des membres correspondra sents et votant au Conseil général au barème prévu dans l'Annexe et au Comité exécutif.

II de la présente Constitution.

ARTICLE 11

ARTICLE 13

SIEGE ET AUTRES BUREAUX STATUT, IMMUNITES ET PRIVILEGES
1. L'Organisation a son siège à Paris ou à Genève, suivant la 1. L'Organisation jouira, sur le décision du Conseil général, et territoire de chaque Etat membre,
toutes les réunions du Conseil de la capacité juridique nécessaire général et du Comité exécutif ont pour exercer ses fonctions et

lieu à ce siège, à moins que la atteindre ses objectifs . majorité des membres du Conseil 2. a ) L'Organisation jouira , sur

général ou du Comité exécutif n'ait le territoire de chaque Etat memdécidé , au cours d'une réunion bre , des privilèges et immunités

précédente ou à la suite de corres- nécessaires pour exercer ses fonc-

pondance échangée avec le Direc- tions et atteindre ses objectifs .

teur général , de se réunir ailleurs .

b) Les représentants des Etats

2. Le Comité exécutif peut éta- membres, les fonctionnaires et les blir tous les bureaux régionaux et employés de l'Organisation joui-

autres, ainsi que toute forme de ront également des privilèges et

représentation, qu'il jugera néces- immunités nécessaires au libre

saire de créer.

exercice de leurs fonctions au

3. Tous les bureaux et organes service de l'Organisation.

de représentation ne peuvent être 3. Cette capacité juridique et

établis qu'avec le consentement ces privilèges et immunités seront du Gouvernement qui exerce son déterminés par un accord qui

autorité sur le territoire choisi devra être préparé par l'Organisa-

pour son établissement .

tion , en consultation avec le Sec-

ARTICLE 12 PROCEDURE

rétaire général des Nations Unies. Cet accord, auquel tous les membres pourront adhérer, aura force

1. Le Conseil général adopte son exécutoire à l'égard de l'Organisapropre règlement intérieur en s'ins- tion et de chacun des membres qui pirant dans l'ensemble, toutes les y adhéreront.

fois que cela sera opportun , du règlement intérieur du Conseil

ARTICLE 14

économique et social des Nations RAPPORTS AVEC LES AUTRES

Unies, et en y apportant les modi-

ORGANISATIONS

fications qu'il estime utiles . Le 1. Sans préjudice des disposi-

Comité exécutif fixe sa propre pro- tions de l'accord à négocier avec

cédure , sous réserve des décisions l'Organisation des Nations Unies

que le Conseil général peut prendre par application de l'article 3 de la

à cet égard.

présente Constitution, l'Organisa-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

tion internationale pour les ré- dront effet lorsqu'ils auront été fugiés peut établir avec les autres adoptés à la majorité des deux

organisations internationales les tiers des membres présents et

relations qui lui paraissent utiles . votant du Conseil général , et 2. L'Organisation peut assumer acceptés par les deux tiers des

tout ou partie des fonctions et Etats membres, conformément à

acquérir tout ou partie des res- leurs règles constitutionnelles res-

sources, de l'actif et du passif de pectives, à condition toutefois toute organisation ou institution que les amendements entraînant intergouvernementale, dont les de nouvelles obligations pour les buts et fonctions rentrent dans le membres ne prennent effet pour

cadre de son activité . Ce trans- chacun de ces membres qu'une

fert peut s'effectuer, soit en vertu fois qu'il les aura acceptées .

de dispositions prises d'un commun accord avec les autorités compétentes desdites organisa-

ARTICLE 17 INTERPRETATION

tions ou institutions internatio- 1. Les textes anglais, chinois,

nales, ou en vertu de pouvoirs espagnol, français et russe de la

conférés à l'Organisation par une présente Constitution sont con-

convention ou un accord inter- sidérés comme également authen-

national.

tiques.

ARTICLE 15

2. Sous réserve des dispositions

RAPPORTS AVEC LES AUTORITES de l'Article 96 de la Charte des Nations Unies et du Chapitre II
DES PAYS OU SE TROUVENT

LES REFUGIES ET PERSONNES du Statut de la Cour internationale

DEPLACEES

de Justice , toute question ou tout

Les rapports entre l'Organisa- différend concernant l'interprétation et les Gouvernements ou tion ou l'application de la présente administrations des pays où se Constitution sera soumis à la Cour

trouvent les réfugiés et personnes internationale de Justice, à moins

déplacées, ainsi que les conditions que le Conseil général et les parties dans lesquelles l'Organisation ex- au différend ne se mettent d'accord

ercera son activité dans lesdits sur un autre mode de règlement.

pays, seront fixés par des accords à négocier entre l'Organisation et ces Gouvernements ou adminis-

ARTICLE 18 ENTREE EN VIGUEUR

trations, conformément aux termes 1. a) Les Etats pourront de-

de la présente Constitution.

venir parties à cette Constitution

ARTICLE 16 AMENDEMENTS A LA
TUTION

CONSTI-

par: i) la signature sans
d'approbation ; ii) la signature sous

réserve réserve

Les textes des amendements d'approbation, suivie de l'ac-

proposés à cette Constitution seront communiqués par le Directeur général aux Etats membres,

ceptation ; iii) l'acceptation . b) l'acceptation sera acquise

trois mois au moins avant qu'ils ne par le dépôt d'un instrument

soient examinés par le Conseil officiel auprès du Secrétaire gé-

général. Les amendements pren- néral des Nations Unies. 68706-52- PT. III~~ 30

3067

3068

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2. La présente Constitution en- les informera également des dates trera en vigueur lorsqu'elle aura auxquelles d'autres Etats devienreçu l'adhésion d'au moins quinze dront parties à cette Constitution. Etats dont les contributions à la EN FOI DE QUOI, les représen-

Partie I du budget d'exécution , tants soussignés , dûment autorisés telles qu'elles sont définies à à cet effet, ont signé la présente l'Annexe II de la présente Consti- Constitution . tution , ne seront pas inférieures à FAIT à Flushing Meadow, New-

soixante-quinze pour cent de la York, le quinze décembre mil neuf totalité des contributions à ladite cent quarante-six , en un seul

Partie I.

exemplaire , établi en langues an-

3. Conformément à l'Article 102 glaise, chinoise, espagnole , française de la Charte des Nations Unies, le et russe. Les textes originaux

Secrétaire général des Nations seront déposés aux archives des Unies enregistrera cette Constitu- Nations Unies . Le Secrétaire gétion lorsqu'elle aura été signée sans néral des Nations Unies en remettra

réserve d'approbation par un Etat , une copie certifiée conforme à cha-

ou au moment du dépôt du premier cun des Gouvernements signataires

instrument d'acceptation .

et, au moment de l'entrée en

4. Le Secrétaire général des Na- vigueur de la Constitution et de

2

tions Unies informera les Etats l'élection d'un Directeur général ,

parties à cette Constitution de la au Directeur général de l'Organidate de son'entrée en vigueur . Il sation.

* ANNEXE I

DEFINITIONS-PRINCIPES GENERAUX

c) ii ) de la résolution adoptée le 12 février 1946 par l'Assem-

1. Les principes généraux énoncés ci-après font partie intégrante des définitions contenues aux première et deuxième parties de la présente Annexe .
a) L'Organisation aura pour

blée générale de l'Organisation des Nations Unies , concernant le problème des réfugiés (Annexe III) .
c) Ainsi qu'il est stipulé dans la résolution adoptée le 16 février 1946 par le Conseil éco-

principal objet de trouver au problème des réfugiés et des

nomique et social, aucune assistance internationale ne devra

personnes déplacées bona fide, être accordée aux traîtres, quis-

une solution rapide et positive , lings et criminels de guerre , et

qui soit juste et équitable pour tous les intéressés .

rien ne devra empêcher qu'ils ne soient livrés et punis.

b) La tâche essentielle en ce qui concerne les personnes déplacées, consiste à les encourager à retourner promptement dans leur pays d'origine et à aider

d) L'Organisation devra s'assurer que son aide n'est pas exploitée pour encourager des activités subversives ou hostiles dirigées contre le Gouverne-

leur retour, par tous les moyens possibles, en tenant compte des principes exposés au paragraphe

ment de l'une quelconque des Nations Unies .
e) L'Organisation devra s'as-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

surer que son aide n'est pas cevra une constitution , une pro-

exploitée par des individus qui cédure et un mandat appropriés .

refusent manifestement de retourner dans leur pays d'ori-

PREMIERE PARTIE

gine, parce qu'ils préfèrent l'oisiveté aux rigueurs qu'ils auraient à supporter en participant à la reconstruction de leur pays,

Réfugiés et personnes déplacées au sens de la résolution adoptée le 16 février 1946 par le Conseil économique et social

ou par des individus qui veulent se fixer dans d'autres pays pour

de l'Organisation des Nations Unies.

des raisons purement économiques, et rentrent ainsi dans la catégorie des émigrants .

SECTION A- DEFINITION DU TERME "RÉFUGIÉ "

f) D'autre part, l'Organisa- 1. Sous réserve des dispositions

tion devra s'assurer qu'aucun des sections C et D et de celles de réfugié ou personne déplacée la deuxième partie ci- après, le bona fide et méritant ne soit terme "réfugié" s'applique à toute

privé de l'assistance qu'elle pour- personne qui a quitté le pays dont ra être en mesure de lui offrir . elle a la nationalité, ou dans lequel
g) L'Organisation s'efforcera elle avait auparavant sa résidence de remplir ses fonctions de habituelle, ou qui se trouve en manière à éviter de troubler les dehors de ce pays et, qu'elle ait ou

relations amicales entre nations . non conservé sa nationalité, qui En cherchant à atteindre ce appartient à l'une des catégories

but , l'Organisation exercera une suivantes :

vigilance particulière dans les cas où l'on peut envisager le réétablissement ou la réinstallation de réfugiés ou de per-

a) Victimes des régimes nazi et fasciste, ou de régimes ayant pris part, aux côtés de ceux- ci, à la deuxième guerre mondiale, ou

sonnes déplacées soit dans des pays limitrophes de leurs pays d'origine, soit dans un territoire non autonome quelconque . L'Organisation tiendra dûment compte, entre autres éléments, de tout facteur qui pourrait révéler quelque crainte ou inquiétude légitime de la part soit du pays d'origine des personnes intéressées dans le premier cas,
soit des populations autochtones dans le cas des territoires non autonomes.

encore de régimes quislings ou analogues, qui ont aidé ces régimes dans leur lutte contre les Nations Unies, que ces per-

sonnes jouissent ou non d'un statut international de réfugié ;
b) Républicains espagnols et autres victimes du régime phalangiste d'Espagne, jouissant ou non d'un statut international de

réfugié ; c) Personnes

considérées

comme "réfugiés" avant le commencement de la deuxième

2. Afin d'assurer l'application guerre mondiale, pour des rai-

impartiale et équitable des principes ci-dessus , ainsi que des défi-

sons de race, de religion, de nationalité ou d'opinion politi-

nitions ci-après, il conviendra que. d'instituer un organisme spécial 2. Sous réserve des dispositions de nature semi-judiciaire , qui re- des sections C et D et de celles de

3069

3070

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

la deuxième partie de la présente SECTION B- DÉFINITION DU TERME

Annexe concernant l'exclusion de

"PERSONNE DÉPLACÉE"

la compétence de l'Organisation des criminels de guerre, des quis-

Le terme "personne déplacée"

lings et des traîtres, le terme s'applique à toute personne, qui, "réfugié" s'applique aussi à toute par suite de l'action des autorités personne, autre qu'une personne des régimes mentionnés au para-

déplacée (telle qu'elle est définie à graphe 1 a ) de la section A de la

la section B de la présente Annexe) , première partie de la présente

qui se trouve en dehors du pays Annexe, a été déportée du pays dont elle a la nationalité ou dans dont elle a la nationalité, ou dans

lequel elle avait auparavant sa lequel elle avait auparavant sa

résidence habituelle, et qui , par résidence habituelle, ou qui a été suite d'événements survenus après obligée de quitter ce pays , telles le début de la deuxième guerre que les personnes qui ont été

mondiale, ne peut ou ne veut pas contraintes au travail obligatoire

se réclamer de la protection du et qui ont été déportées du fait de

Gouvernement du pays dont elle leur race, de leur religion ou de

a ou avait auparavant la nationa- leurs opinions politiques . Les per-

lité.

sonnes déplacées ne tomberont

3. Sous réserve des dispositions sous la compétence de l'Organide la section D et de celles de la sation que sous réserve des dis-

deuxième partie de la présente positions des sections C et D de la
Annexe, le terme " réfugié " s'appli- première partie et de celles de la que aussi aux personnes qui, deuxième partie de la présente

ayant résidé en Allemagne ou en Annexe . Si les raisons qui ont

Autriche, et étant d'origine israé- motivé leur déplacement ont cessé

lite , ou étrangères ou apatrides, d'exister, ces personnes devront ont été victimes des persécutions être rapatriées aussitôt que possinazies et ont été retenues de force ble, conformément à l'article 2 ,

dans l'un de ces pays ou , obligées paragraphe 1 a) de la présente de s'enfuir, y ont été ramenées Constitution, et sous réserve des ultérieurement du fait de l'ennemi dispositions des alinéas ii ) et iii)

ou de circonstances créées par la du paragraphe c) de la résolution

guerre, et qui n'y sont pas encore de l'Assemblée générale, en date

réinstallées de façon stable.

du 12 février 1946 , concernant le

4. Le terme "réfugié" s'appli- problème des réfugiés (Annexe III ) .

que aussi aux enfants non accom-

SECTION C--CONDITIONS DANS pagnés qui sont orphelins de

guerre ou dont les parents ont

LESQUELLES LES " RÉFUGIÉS" OU "PERSONNES DÉPLACÉES" TOM-

disparu, et qui se trouvent en

dehors de leurs pays d'origine.

BERONT SOUS LA COMPÉTENCE DE L'ORGANISATION

Ces enfants, s'ils sont âgés de 16

ans ou de moins de 16 ans, rece- 1. Pour toutes les catégories

vront par priorité toute l'aide énoncées ci-dessus , à l'exception possible, y compris , en règle géné- de celles qui sont mentionnées aux rale, l'aide au rapatriement qui alinéas 1 b ) et 3 de la section A de sera accordée à ceux dont la la présente Annexe , les personnes nationalité peut être déterminée . dont il s'agit tomberont sous la

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

compétence de l'Organisation , au sens de la résolution adoptée par

iii ) dans le cas des personnes rentrant dans les caté-

le Conseil économique et social le 16 février 1946 , si elles peuvent être rapatriées et si l'aide de l'Organisation est nécessaire pour assurer leur rapatriement ou si , en toute liberté, et après avoir eu pleinement connaissance de la situation et des renseignements fournis par le Gouvernement du pays dont elles ont la nationalité ou dans lequel elles avaient antérieurement leur résidence habituelle, elles ont finalement et définitivement fait valoir des raisons satisfaisantes pour ne pas
y retourner.
a) Seront considérées comme raisons satisfaisantes :
i) la persécution ou la crainte fondée de persécutions du fait de la race, de la religion, de la nationalité ou des opinions politiques , à conditions que ces opinions ne soient pas en conflit avec les principes de l'Organisation

gories mentionnées aux alinéas 1 a ) et 1 c ) de la section A, des raisons de famille impérieuses tirant leur origine de persécutions antérieures, ou des raisons impérieuses de débilité ou de maladie.
b) Seront normalement considérés comme " renseignements suffisants": les renseignements sur les conditions régnant dans les pays auxquels appartiennent les réfugiés ou les personnes déplacées en question , fournis directement à ces réfugiés ou per-
sonnes déplacées par les représentants des Gouvernements de
ces pays ; on mettra à la disposition de ces derniers tous les
moyens qui leur permettent de visiter les camps et centres de rassemblement des réfugiés et personnes déplacées afin de pouvoir leur communiquer les renseignements en question.
2. Dans le cas de tous les réfu-

des Nations Unies, énoncés au giés visés par les dispositions de

Préambule de la Charte des l'alinéa 1 b ) de la section A de la

Nations Unies ;

présente Annexe, les personnes

ii) les objections de nature intéressées relèveront de la com-

politique jugées "satisfai- pétence de l'Organisation , au sens

santes" par l'Organisation, de la résolution adoptée le 16

ainsi qu'il est prévu au para- février 1946 par le Conseil écono-

graphe 8 a) ¹ du rapport de la mique et social de l'Organisation Troisième Commission de des Nations Unies, tant que le

l'Assemblée générale, adopté régime phalangiste d'Espagne con-

par l'Assemblée le 12 février

1946 ;

tinuera d'exister. Au cas où ce

régime serait remplacé par un

1 ¹

Paragraphe

8

a):

régime démocratique, elles dev-

"En répondant au représentant de la ront alors fournir, pour justifier
Belgique, le Président a déclaré qu'il

était sous-entendu que l'organisation leur refus de retourner en Espagne, internationale déciderait si les objections des raisons satisfaisantes corres-

étaient ou n'étaient pas ' satisfaisantes ' pondantes à celles qui sont men-

et qu'il était clair que de telles objec-

tions pourraient être de nature poli- tionnées au paragraphe 1 a) de la

tique."

présente section.

3071

3072

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

SECTION D- CONDITIONS DANS LESQUELLES LES RÉFUGIÉS ET

diale, volontairement aidé les forces ennemies dans leurs opé-

PERSONNES DÉPLACÉES CESSERONT DE RELEVER DE LA COM-

rations contre les Nations Unies.¹ 3. Les criminels de droit com-

PÉTENCE DE L'ORGANISATION mun tombant sous le coup des

Cesseront de relever de la compétence de l'Organisation , les réfugiés et personnes déplacées :

dispositions des traités d'extradition .
4. Les personnes d'origine allemande du point de vue ethnique

a) qui seront retournés dans (qu'il s'agisse de ressortissants le pays dont ils ont la natio- allemands ou de personnes apparnalité surle territoire de l'une des tenant aux minorités allemandes

Nations Unies , à moins que le dans d'autres pays) qui:

lieu de leur ancienne résidence où ils désirent retourner ne se

a) venant d'autres pays , ont été ou peuvent être transférées

trouve en dehors de ce pays ; ou b) qui auront acquis une

en Allemagne ; b) ont été évacuées d'Alle-

nouvelle nationalité ; ou

magne vers d'autres pays au

c) qui se seront, au jugement cours de la deuxième guerre

.

de l'Organisation , établis d'une mondiale ;

autre façon de manière stable ;

c) se sont enfuies d'Allemagne

ou

ou y sont revenues en fugitifs,

d) qui auront, sans raison ou qui ont quitté les lieux où

valable , refusé d'accepter les propositions de l'Organisation pour leur réinstallation ou leur
rapatriement ; ou e) qui ne feront aucun effort

elles résidaient pour s'enfuir dans des pays autres que l'Allemagne, afin d'éviter de tomber aux mains des armées alliées.
5. Les personnes qui bénéficient

sérieux pour gagner leur vie, d'une aide financière et de la pro-

tout en ayant la possibilité de le tection du pays dont elles ont la faire, ou profiteront indûment nationalité, à moins que ce pays

de l'aide fournie par l'Organisa- ne demande l'assistance inter-

tion.

nationale à leur profit.

DEUXIEME PARTIE

6. Les personnes qui , depuis la cessation des hostilités de la deux-

ième guerre mondiale : Personnes qui ne relèveront pas
de la compétence de l'Organisation . 1 Le fait d'avoir simplement continué à remplir des fonctions normales et

1. Les criminels de guerre, quislings et traîtres .
2. Toutes autres personnes dont on peut prouver:

pacifiques, sans intention déterminée d'aider l'ennemi contre les Alliés ou
contre les populations civiles des terri-
toires occupés par l'ennemi , ne sera pas considéré comme constituant une "aide

a) qu'elles ont aidé l'ennemi volontaire" . Cette disposition s'applià persécuter les populations quera également aux actes de caractère
humanitaire, tels que l'assistance aux
civiles de pays qui sont Mem- blessés et mourants, sauf dans les cas

bres de l'Organisation des Na- où une assistance de cette nature

tions Unies ; ou

donnée à des nationaux d'un pays

b) qu'elles ont, depuis le dé- ennemi, aura été refusée à des nationaux

alliés auxquels elle aurait pu être but de la deuxième guerre mon- donnée.

He1)zt

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

a) ont fait partie d'une orga-
nisation quelconque dont l'un des buts était de renverser, par la force des armes, le Gouvernement de leur pays d'origine, si ce pays est Membre de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, ou le Gouvernement d'un autre Membre ddee l'Organisation des Nations Unies, ou qui ont fait partie d'une organisation terroriste quelconque ;
b) ont été à la tête de mouve-

ments hostiles au Gouvernement de leur pays d'origine, si ce pays est Membre de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, ou ont dirigé des mouvements qui recommandaient aux réfugiés de ne pas retourner dans leur pays d'origine ;
c) appartiennent, au moment où elles sollicitent l'aide de l'organisation, aux forces armées ou aux cadres civils d'un pays étranger.

ANNEXE II

BUDGET ET CONTRIBUTIONS Pays

POUR LE PREMIER EXERCICE Canada

FINANCIER

Chili .

Chine 1. Le budget provisoire pour le Colombie .

premier exercice financier s'élévera Costa-Rica

à 4.800.000 dollars des Etats-Unis en ce qui concerne le budget administratif, à 151.060.500 dollars des Etats-Unis en ce qui concerne

Cuba Tchécoslovaquie . DRéapnuebmlairqkue Dominicaine Equateur .

le budget d'exécution (à l'excep- Egypte .
tion des dépenses afférentes au Salvador · réétablissement en grand) et à Ethiopie
France . 5.000.000 de dollars des Etats- Grèce

Unis pour les dépenses afférentes Guatemala · au réétablissement en grand . Haïti

Tout solde non affecté inscrit sous Honduras

ces rubriques sera reporté au crédit de la rubrique correspon-
dante dans le budget de l'exercice financier suivant.

Islande .
IIrnadne · ·
Irak ·
Liban

2. Ces sommes seront versées Libéria . · par les membres (à l'exception des Luxembourg frais de réétablissement en grand) PMaeyxsi-qBuaes ·.

conformément au barème ci-après . Nouvelle-Zélande

A. DEPENSES ADMINISTRATIVES

Pays
Afghanistan . Argentine Australie .

Pour cent 0,05 1,85

Belgique Bolivie . Brésil

1, 97 1,35 0, 08

République socialiste soviétique de Biélorussie . .

1,85

0, 22

Nicaragua Norvège . Panama
Paraguay . Pérou ·
République des Philippines Pologne Arabie saoudite Suède · Syrie .. · Turquie

Pour cent
3, 20 0, 45 6, 00 0, 37 0, 04 0, 29 0,90 0,79 0, 05 0, 05 0,79 0, 05 0, 08 6,00 0, 17 0, 05 0, 04 0, 04 0, 04 3, 95 0, 45 0, 17 0, 06 0, 04 0, 05 0, 63 1,40 0,50 0, 04 0, 50 0, 05 0, 04 0, 20 0, 29 0, 95 0, 08 2,35 0, 12 0, 91

3073

3074

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Pays

Pour cent Pays

Pour cent

République socialiste soviétique d'Ukraine

Honduras 0, 84 Islande . ·

0,02 0, 02

Union Sud-Africaine
Union des Républiques socialistes soviétiques .
Royaume-Uni . Etats-Unis d'Amérique . Uruguay · · Venezuela ·
Yougoslavie

1, 12 Inde Iran ·
6, 34 Irak 11, 48 Liban 39, 89 Libéria .
0,18 Luxembourg 0, 27 Mexique 0, 33 Pays-Bas .
Nouvelle-Zélande

3,66 0, 39 0, 15 0, 05 0, 02 0, 04 0,54 0,90 0, 44

100, 00 Nicaragua · Norvège

0, 02

E

0, 44

B. DEPENSES D'EXECUTION (A L'EX- Panama

0, 04

CEPTION DES DEPENSES AFFERENTES Paraguay .

0, 02

AU REETABLISSEMENT EN GRAND)

Pérou

0, 17

République des Philippines

0, 24

"

Pays

Pour cent Pologne

0, 61

Afghanistan Argentine · Australie · · Belgique · Bolivie . Brésil République socialiste soviétique

0, 03 Arabie saoudite 1,50 Suède · 1,76 Syrie 1,00 Turquie 0, 07 République socialiste soviétique 1,50 d'Ukraine
Union Sud-Africaine

0, 07 2, 20 0, 10 0, 88
0, 62 1,00

de Biélorussie Canada Chili . Chine Colombie . Costa-Rica Cuba Tchécoslovaquie . Danemark République Dominicaine

0, 16 Union des Républiques socia3, 50 listes soviétiques . 0,39 Royaume-Uni . . 2, 50 Etats-Unis d'Amérique . 0,32 Uruguay · 0, 02 Venezuela 0, 24 Yougoslavie 0, 80 Nouveaux membres · 0, 68 0.04

4, 69 14, 75 45, 75
0, 15 0, 23 0, 23 1, 92
100, 00

Equateur Egypte . Salvador ·

0, 04 0,68

3. Les contributions destinées

0,03 à couvrir les frais du réétablisse-

Ethiopie · France · Grèce Guatemala Haïti ·

0,07 ment en grand seront régies par 4, 10 0, 15 les dispositions du paragraphe 0,04 4 de l'article 10 de la présente
0, 02 Constitution .

ANNEXE III

RESOLUTION ADOPTEE PAR entre les réfugiés authentiques et

L'ASSEMBLEE GENERALE LE 12 les personnes déplacées d'une part,

FEVRIER 1946

et les criminels de guerre, les

(document A/45)

quislings et les traîtres dont il

L'ASSEMBLÉE GÉNÉRALE ,

est question au paragraphe d)

RECONNAISSANT que le problème ci-dessous , d'autre part:

des réfugiés et des personnes déplacées de toutes catégories revêt un caractère d'extrême urgence et reconnaissant la nécessité de faire une distinction nette

a) DÉCIDE de renvoyer ce problème au Conseil économique et social pour qu'il l'examine à fond, sous tous ses aspects , dans le cadre de la question

15

SH ÷ H BN..

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC . 16, 1946

10 de l'ordre du jour de sa première session et fasse rapport à la deuxième partie de la première session de l'Assemblée
générale ; b) RECOMMANDE au Conseil
économique et social de créer un comité spécial chargé de l'examen et de l'élaboration

pays où ils sont établis a conclu avec cet organisme un accord aux termes duquel il accepte de subvenir à tous les frais de leur entretien et de prendre la responsabilité de leur protection ;
iii) la principale tâche envers les personnes déplacées consiste à les encourager et à les aider

rapide du rapport mentionné au paragraphe a):
c) RECOMMANDE au Conseil

de toutes les manières possibles à retourner rapidement dans leur pays d'origine . Cette assis-

économique et social de tenir tance peut revêtir la forme d'ac-

compte, en la matière, des cords bilatéraux d'assistance

principes suivants :

mutuelle notamment en ce qui

i) ce problème a une portée et un caractère internationaux ;

concerne le rapatriement de ces personnes , conformément aux

ii) aucun réfugié ou personne principes énoncés dans le para-

déplacée qui, en toute liberté, graphe c) ii) ci-dessus ;

aura finalement et définitive-
ment, et après avoir eu pleinement connaissance de la situation et des renseignements four

d) CONSIDÈRE qu'aucune action. entreprise en application de la présente résolution ne devra faire obstacle de façon quelconque à la

nis par le Gouvernement de son livraison et au châtiment des crimi-

pays d'origine, fait valoir des nels de guerre , des quislings et des raisons satisfaisantes pour ne
traîtres, conformément aux con-
pas retourner dans son pays, ventions et accords internationaux

pourvu qu'il ne tombe pas sous présents ou futurs ;

le coup des dispositions énon- e) CONSIDÈRE que les Allemands cées au paragraphe d) ci-dessous , qui ont été transférés en Allemagne ne sera contraint de retourner d'autres pays ou qui se sont enfuis

dans son pays d'origine . L'ave- vers d'autres pays , devant les nir de ces réfugiés ou de ces per- troupes alliées, ne tombent pas sonnes déplacées sera du ressort sous le coup de la présente décide l'organisme international qui sion dans la mesure où leur situa-

pourrait être reconnu ou créé à tion pourra être réglée par les forces la suite du rapport mentionné alliées d'occupation en Allemagne , aux paragraphes a) et b ) ci -des- d'accord avec les Gouvernements sus, sauf si le Gouvernement du des pays respectifs .

3075

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION--DEC. 16, 1946

3077

    

   
   

3078

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

    



 

  

1

    :

         

  

 ,      ;    ,    

          ; 

  ,   ;           ;

       ,     ;  

1

       ;      

       ;           

 ,       ,          ,    ;
              ;
     ,       ,       ,     ,   ,  ;
             ,   ,         ;
 :

   : (  )              (  )    ,     ,              ,     ,     ,           ,       ,    ,    ,         ; (  )  (  )       ,  :

   ,  

( )      ;

 ,    ;        ;
  :

(  )           ; ( )       , 

 

  ,   

 
             ,  , 

   ,        (  )  ,       

  





62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION -DEC. 16, 1946

3079

 .   ,   ,   :
(  )  ; (  )    ,  ,  ,       ,    ,     ; (  )  ,      ; (  ) ,  ;          ,                 ,      (  )   ,   ; (  )  ,     ,        ; (  )            ( ()  ,   ,         ; (  )       ,   ; (  )         ; (  )        ,       ; (  )     ,      
 
  
    ,    

     ,    
 

         ,   ,     ,        ,    ,                
        ,       :(  )        ,         ; (  )         ,   ,       .       ,         ,          ,   
  : (  )          ; (  )      ,            ,         
          ,      ,     ,       

3080

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

 .   ,      ,    ,        
  .            .         ,        

 ;        
     .     ,          ,      .      ,        ,    ,     
 

   .       ,         ;         .          .                   
 

 
   .        ,      ,                      .                  ,    



  

   :   ,  
 

    ,     ,                  ,       

 

   ,    

          ,                .     ,            ,              

   .     ,    ,        .   :
(  )   ,     ; (  )     
     ,        ;

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION--DEC. 16, 1946

3081

(  )   ,     ,         
 .       ,           ,  ,        .       ,                                          
 

    ,    ,       ,     .       ,              ,       ,     ,          .          ,         ,         ,    ,           ,       

 .               .         ,         ,     . ( )                  ,                ,   O
(  ) ,        ,   
   ...... ·      ,   ,  ,  ,                  ,    ,                (    )    ,    .      ,          ,                        ,     



3082

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

  

 .                     

   ,      ,   

    ,        

  ,    ,  ,   

   .      

   ,        ,       

  ,   ,     :

 ,    

(  )       

     ,  

   ;

         

(  )      

    

   

 .     ,        ,     ,       ,         .          .        (   ) ,              .    Ji .     

        ,                        ,      ,         .          .         

        ,  

      , 

 ,      :      

 .       ,

 ;    , 

            ,

     ,           

  

 .      

 .        , 

  ,        

  

 



62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

3083

   ,  19     ,            . (  )     ,         (  )     ,                  .    ,   ,               ,        
 
  
       ,      
   ,          ,         ,  ,                  ,      
                         ,             

 
                           ,       ,             
       ,  ,  ,  ,       .     ,               ,          
 
  (  )     
   : (  )   ,  
: (  )     ,  ; (  )   (  )           .                    ,         ,    .         



3084

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

   ,       ,           .           ,          
        

   ,     
        
     ,   ,  ,  ,  ,                   ,          ,  



62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

3085

 

   -1          (  )        -   ,     ,     (  )             (  )  (  )   (  )     ,           (  )           ,  ,   ,             (  )                (  )                 ,         ,      ,      (  )  ,       ,  ,      ,     (  )           ,             ,      ,    ,                 ,         ,     ,   ,  
          
 
    " "  ,      

  ,            ,       ,   :
( )      ,            ,              ,       ;
( E )          ,      ;
(  )  ,  ,     ,                  (  , ,    ,  "  "  ,        ,        ,           ,                ,  "  ,     ,    ,     ,      ,    ,     ,      ,       ,      
  "  " -     ,   ,            ,      ,    ,   
  -   "  "  ,         (  )  ,      ,     ,          ,      ,        ,          ,      (  )  ,             (  )  (  )  (  )     ,     
 " "  '   "    
- ,   (  )       ,

+

3086

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

   ,               ,    ;       ,        ,   ,           ,   ,    ,  
 : (  )     : (  )  ,  ,        ,       ;     ,      ; (  )     ,       "  '' ,           (  )     ' (  )     (  ) (  )   ,       ,
     3 (  )        '' : 
        ,    ;    ,          ,          (  )    ,      ,                 ,            ,      (  )        
     -      
             :
(  )     !!     ;              ,   ;

(  )      ; (  )         ; (  )   ,       ; (  )                  o

            : (  )   ,    ; (  )     ,     ,     "                ,            ,    : (  )     ; (  )          ; (  )   ,  ,       ,      o  ·        ;       ,          ,   : (  )  ,         ,       ;          ;    ; (  )           ,       ;         ; ()      

' (  )   :     :  
 ,     :             ;        o 

    ,          ,      "     ,       ,   "   ",       ,     , 


62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

3087

 



,     4,800,000 ,  (    )  151,060,500 ,    5,000,000           ,  (    )        :

 ,     .   .     ..   .  ..  .     .  .  .  ,  ...  .  .   .  ..   ..  .   .. 
  

 0.05 1.85 1.97 1.35 0.08 1.85 0.22 3.20 0.45 6.00 0.37 0.04 0.29 0.90 0.79 0.05 0.05 0.79 0.05 0.08 6.00 0.17 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.04 3.95 0.45 0.17 0.06 0.10

   ..   .  .  .   ,  .  .    ,  ..  ,  .  .    ,  .     .   ..  .  .
 ,     (    )   .  .  .   .  .   ,  ..  .  .  .   ..



0.05 0.63 1.40 0.50 0.04 0.50 0.05 0.04 0.20 0.29 0.95 0.08 2.35 0.12 0.91 0.84 1.12 6.34 11.48 39.89 0.18 0.27 0.33 100.00
 0.03 1.50 1.76 1.00 0.07 1.50 0.16 3.50 0.39 2.50 0.32 0.02 0.24

3088

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

  .   .  ..  .   ..  .  .  ..  .   .   .   .   ,  .    . 

0.80

 

0.44

0.68

 ....

0.04

0.04

 .

0.02

0.04

 

0.17

0.68



0.03

 ..

0.24

0.61

MEG

0.07

 

0.07

4.10

 .

2.20

0.15

 .

0.10

0.04



0.88

0.02

 ..

0.62

0.02

 ..

1.00

0.02

  

4.69

3.66

   ...

14.75

0.39

..

45.75

0.15

 .

0.15

0.05

 ..

0.23

0.02

 .

0.23

0.04

  ,

1.92

0.54

100,00

0.90

0.44

 ,    ,   

0.02

   

 

      ( A /45 )  ,     ,         ,      , 
(  )    ,      ,    ,       ,
(  )        ,    (  )    ;
(  )      ,  :
(  )       (  )    ,          ,    ,   ,          (  )  ,  

        o     ,     (  ) (  )        ;      ,     ,         ,   
(  )   ,     ,         ,    (  )    ,      ,       ;   (  )       ,          ,        (  )            ,             ,    



62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16 , 1946

3089

  
  

   , -
1946

3090

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

     


,   ,
          , ,    , ;
          

,          ;
  ,
   ,    ,         «    »  ,      

,                 ;

   , ,   :

              

 1 

  ,    ,     

          

,      - ,   , -

   ,  ,     ; ,    ,    ,  ,       ,       -

   I         .
 2   

 ;       -
            ,     ;

1.  ,           ,  :  ;  ,    , , 

     -   I,  -

,   ,           -

  ;        ;    

      ,  ; ,  

           
    ,   ,     ,          ; 
    ,       

     ,     .   ,    :
( )     ,    ,        ,    ,      ,  

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

3091

 ,          ,  12  1946      ( III)  ,   ;     ,  ,                     ,  ,     ,         ,         ;        ; 
(b)   ,        ()  ,  :
(i)         ;
(ii)    ,              ;
(iii)     -
  ,      ,         ,           . (c)    ,    ,        .
2.            ,  ,   :
()       ;
(b)   ,        -

-       -  ,     ,   ,    ;
(  )    ,     ;
(d)        ,       ,    ,     ,    ,   ,           ,    ,        ;
(e )       ;
(f)            ,   ,           ;
(g)           ,    ,    ( ) (ii ) ,  12  1946 .    ,     (  III) ;
(h )   ,     9   ;
(i )   ,    ;
(j)    ,                 ,    ;
()     

68706-52- . III- -31

3092

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

 ,   .

 , , ,        :

 
   
            ,     57  63   .

()         ,  -
  ;
(b)         ,   ,    ,        ,  ,   ,   , -

 4  

  , ,   ,      ,    -

1.         .   

     ,   .

       ,     ,    ,            ,         ,    3 -

4.  ,    ,       ( b)  3  ,  ,   -
  , ,      ,          
   .

 .

5.     

2.     1  ,    ,             ,  ,          ,  ,   ,     ,  
   .

 ,     ,      ,       ,  ,    .
6.  ,    ,      .
7.      ,    -

3.     1    ,  -

 ,      , 

   ,    ,  , -

       ,  -

 ,          -

         .

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

3093

8.      ,   ,    ,     ,                  .
9.          .

  ;              ,            .
3.              ,            .
4.     -

10.                  .       
      .

             ,     ,     .
 7  

 5

     :  ,    .

1.    
,         ,        ,    ,   ,

 6

   .       

 
1.  ,   ,   ,        ,     ,    .         .
2.     -

     ,      .     .
2.          .              .    -

        -       , , ,  -       -

     ,     -
      .          ,    

      -
   ,    .           .    

3094

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

          ,       ,           .

          .          ,    

3.    -

 8

       ,      .

 1.        -

4.     :

.         -

( ) ,     

,        

(b)  -           , -     

  ,      .

 ,             ;
()  ,     ,    ,         .
5.      ,  ,         ,    ,   ,    ,

2.         -
    .     
 ,    ,       ,      .       ,        ,       ,   -

              -

,   ,   -
     .

 . 6.    -

3.       , 

   ,     6  8   ,   , -

     ,        ,   

         ,     .     , -

        .   ,  ,     -

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

3095

 ,              , ,   ,   ,    .
4.      ,  ,      .
5.                 ,        . ,   ,       ,     .
6. ()            . ,       ,                    .       ,         ,    6  7  .
(b)                 .
 9
 
1.        ,  ,  ,     ,   .  ,       ,    ,

   .                        .
2.  ,  ,   II  I , (   5 )  ,   ,   ,       .
3.                        ,   .      ,       ,    ,    .                          .
 10

1.     ,    ,   ,    ,          ,        ,   .    
     ,    .      ,      ,   : « », «  »  «     »  

3096

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

       ,               ,       .

   ,         ,       ,           .

2.     -

7.   , , -

,            

     ,      ,       -

,   ,         .

 ,           ,   ,      .

8.             ,   

3.          -

  . ,       

 ,    ,   ,   

     3  ,  -

1  2  .

,  ,  

4.         (  -

      .

      ) , 

9.   ,  -

  ,  -  ,   1 -

  1  2  ,    ,   -

   ,      .   

        ,       :

             

( )     ,    II  -

   ,     

   (b)     -

.
5.  ,            ,    -

     ,    II   .
 11

       ,          ,      .
6.      5,  ,       -

   
1.         ,   ,              ,

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

3097

                       ,     .
2.          ,    .
3.         ,       .
 12

1.       ,            ,    ,    ,     .            ,  .
2.   ,         ,      ,            .
 13 ,   
1.      ,   , - ·         .
2. (a)      ,     ,    ·     .

()   ,           ,      ,   .
3.   ,      ,           .        ,            ,   .
 14   

1.    ,
      ,    3  ,          ,     .
2.               ,        ,        .                ,    ,      .
 15   
,      -
 
        

3098

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

 ,    

(i)   , 

   ,  , 

  ;

      ,

(ii)     -

  , 

    ;

    -

(iii) .

         .

(b)        -

 16
  
            ,         .                              ,     ,  , -

  .
2.     ,         ,  ,    I  ,      II   ,    75%   .
3.            102   ,     .     ,  

,  ,   -      

   ,     .

          .

4.      , 

 17  1. ,  , , -

  ,      ,              .

        .
2.     96      II 

  , ,      ,   .

 ,               ,               .

   ,  ,  ,     ,     , , ,    .       .

 18   

            ,  

1. (a)       :

      ,   .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1948

3099

 


 
1.         ,     '  I  II.
()      ,            ;           ,   .
(b)         ,                ,    ,    () ( )     ,  12  1946 .  
 . (  ) . ()    ,  16
 1946     , ,                 ,     -     .
(d)      ,             ,       .
(e)      ,        ,    ,         ,      ,        ,   ,            ,  ,    .
(f)   ,      ,                ,     .
(g)       ,       .    

       ,                            ,    .     ,   ,           ,    -     ,    , ,    -     .
2.            ,    -       ,    .
 
   ,   ,       16  1946 
    «>
1.     C  D    II  ,  «   ,   ,    ,     ,   ,       ,   ,       .      
()     ,  ,          ,       ,          ,   ,     ,  ,  ;
(b)         ,   ,     ,  ,  ;
( ) ,         ,   ,    ,     .

68706-52- PT. III- -32

3100

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2.     C  D     ,     ,   ,    ,   ,  ,  « »    , ,    ,      ,               ,      ,           ,   .
3.     D  -

   12  1946      ( III) .
 . ,   «>>  « »   
1. ,       ,      1 (b)  3    ,   ,   ,      16  1946 ,     ,      ,    ,    ,   ,  

  II  «»      ,   -

, ,                ,  ,    ,   -

 ,   ,  -       ;

                  ,      

(a)   « » : (1) ,   ( --
 : "Fondé", - : " based on reasonable

 ,       ,           .
4.  «»     , --    ,    , -     .  ,   16   ,      ,     ,     .

grounds" )     

,

, ,

 ,  ,       

,        ;

(li)   , -

  « » ,  

  8 (  )   

 ,  

12  1916 ;

 .   « »
 «  »   , ,     ,    1 ( )  ,  1  ,           ,     ,   ,      ,      ,    .             D  I     II .  ,   ,  ,        ,   2,  1 ()        ( )  ( )  (  )  -

(iii)   ,   ,    1 (  )  1 (  )  ,    ,    ,   ,     .
(b)     « » .
          ,   ,      ,                ,      .
1.8 ,  ,   , ,     ».

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

3101

2.  ,     1 (b)    ,   ,   ,        16  1946 ,   , 
     .       ,           ,  ,     1 ( )  .
 D. ,       -
   
        :
()       ,     ,    ,      ,    ,     ; 
(b)      ;  ()  ,   , -     ;  (d)       ,         ;  ()              ,    .
 
,      
1.  ,   . 2.   ,      ,  :
(a)        ,     ; 

(b)                 .1 3.  ,    . 4.     (          ) , :
(  )          ;
(b)             ;
()   ,   ,        ,  ,   ,       
5. ,        ,    ,         .
6. ,        :
()    - ,      ,    ,    ,    ,  ,    ,      ;     -   ;
(b)   ,    BX ,    ,  
,       ;
( ) ,    ,     ,        . 1   38   ,  ,-». , -   ,  ,   , ,  , , - 26 .    ,   

 II

       

     (        ) 

1.         : 4 800 000  -

5000000        .    

   , 151 060 500 -               .

3102

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2.   (     -  

0,84

    )    -  

1,12

    :    .. 6,34

.   

 

11,48



    .

39,89



0,05 

0,18



1,85



0,27



1,97



0,33



1.35



0,08

100,00

    

1,85

.   

0,22

(  

3

3,20

  )

0,45







6,00



0,03



0.37



1,50



0,04 

1,76



0,29 

1,00



0,90



0,07



0,79



1,50

 

0,05

 

0,16



0,05



3,50



0,79



0,39



0,05



2,50



0,08



0,32



6,00



0,02

 

0,17



0,24

0,05



0,80



0,01



0,68



0,04

 

0,04



0,04 

0,04



3,95



0,63



0,45



0,03

 

0,17



0,07

0,06



4,10



0,04



0,15



0,05



0,04



0,63



0,02



1,40



0,02

 

0,50



0,02



0,04

.

3,66



0,50



0,39



0,05



0,15



0,04



0,05



0,20 

0,02



0,29 

0,04



0,95



0,54

 

0,08 

0,90



2,35

 

0,44



0.12



0,02



0,91



0,44

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

3103



0,04



0,02



0,17



0,24



0,61

 

0,07



2,20



0,10



0,38

 

0,62

 

1,00

    4,69

 

14,75

   ..

45.75



0,15



0.23



0.23

 

1,92

100,00
3.             4  10 ,

 III

,    12  1946 
( /45)
 ,
,           ,           ,   ,   ,   ,     (d )    :
()             ,    10-                  ;
(b)                ,    (a) ;
(c)            :
(i)         .
(li)    ,    ,        ,      ,    EX ,        ,     -

  ,        (d ) ,  .          ,        ,     ( )  ( b ) ,    ,   ,   ,   
   ,              .
(iii)         ,                .    
            ,   ,     () (ii) . (d ) ,   ,     ,     ,   -       ,   ,            ;
(e ) ,  ,              ,      ,                 .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

3105

CONSTITUCIÓN DE LA
ORGANIZACIÓN INTERNACIONAL DE REFUGIADOS

NACIONES UNIDAS Lake Success, Nueva York
1946

3106

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

CONSTITUCIÓN DE LA ORGANIZACIÓN INTERNACIONAL DE REFUGIADOS

PREÁMBULO

recibir cuidado y ayuda y que,

hasta donde sea posible, deberán

Los Gobiernos que aceptan esta tener trabajo útil para evitar las

Constitución,

consecuencias malignas y antiso-

RECONOCIENDO que los verda- ciales de una prolongada desocuderos refugiados y personas desa- pación ; y lojadas constituyen un problema que los gastos de repatriación ,

urgente de carácter y finalidades dentro de límites factibles, deben

internacionales ;

correr por cuenta de Alemania y

que en lo concerniente a las del Japón, en lo que se refiere a las

personas desalojadas, la tarea prin- personas desalojadas por esas pocipal a cumplir consiste en alen- tencias de los países que habían

tarlas y prestarles asistencia, en ocupado .

toda forma posible , para el pronto HAN ACORDADO

retorno a sus países de origen ;

para la realización de las finali-

que los verdaderos refugiados y dades precitadas en el más corto personas desalojadas deberían re- tiempo posible, crear , como en cibir ayuda por una acción inter- efecto se crea, una Organización

nacional, sea para su regreso a sus que será de carácter no perma-
países de origen o a sus anteriores nente , que se denominará Organilugares de residencia habitual, o zación Internacional de Refugiabien para encontrar nuevos dos , la cual será un organismo es-

hogares en otras partes, de acuerdo pecializado que se mantendrá vincon las condiciones estipuladas en culado con las Naciones Unidas,

esta Constitución ; o, en el caso y, por lo tanto ,

de los republicanos españoles, para HAN ACEPTADO LOS SIGUIENTES

establecerse temporalmente con el ARTÍCULOS : propósito de poder retornar a

España en cuanto el actual ré-

ARTÍCULO 1

gimen falangista sea reemplazado por un régimen democrático ;
que la reinstalación y restablecimineto de los refugiados y per-

JURISDICCIÓN
La Organización tendrá jurisdicción sobre los refugiados y desalo-

sonas desalojadas ha de consi- jados , de acuerdo con los princi-

derarse sólo en casos semejantes pios , definiciones y condiciones

a los claramente indicados en esta señalados en el Anexo I, que se

Constitución ;

adjunta y forma parte integrante

de esta Constitución. que los verdaderos refugiados y

personas desalojadas , en tanto no se complete su efectiva repatriación o reinstalación y restablecimiento, deberán ser protegidos en sus derechos y legítimos intereses,

ARTÍCULO 2 FUNCIONES Y FACULTADES 1. Las funciones de la Organización, que se deberán efectuar de

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

acuerdo con las finalidades y principios de la Carta de las Naciones

(i) su reinstalación en países donde puedan residir tem-

Unidas, son las siguientes : la repatriación; identificación , registro y clasificación ; la ayuda y el cuidado ; la protección política y jurídica ; el transporte y la colonización y reinstalación en países que

poralmente ; (ii ) la emigración, reinsta-
lación y restablecimiento de individuos o familias enteras en otros países ; y
(iii) la investigación, pro-

puedan y quieran recibirlas , de personas encomendadas a la Organización, de conformidad con lo dispuesto en el Anexo I. Ejercerá dichas funciones con los objetivos siguientes:
(a ) alentar y contribuir, de todas las maneras posibles , al

moción y ejecución de planes para la colonización en grupos, o en gran escala, según sea necesaria y se pueda llevar a cabo, de acuerdo con los medios de que se disponga y sujeta a la debida regulación fiscal.

pronto regreso, a su país de nacionalidad o residencia habitual ,
de las personas encomendadas a

(c) con respecto a los españoles republicanos , para ayudarles a establecerse temporalmente

la Organización, tomando en consideración los principios señalados en la resolución sobre

hasta que llegue el momento en que se establezca en España un régimen democrático .

refugiados y personas desaloja- 2. Para poder desempeñar sus

das aprobada por la Asamblea funciones, la Organización podrá

General de las Naciones Unidas dedicarse a cualquier actividad

el 12 de febrero de 1946 (Anexo adecuada, y con este fin, tendrá

III), facilitando esto por todos los medios posibles y especialmente proporcionándoles ayuda material y alimentación ade-

las facultades siguientes : (a) recibir y gastar fondos
públicos y privados ; (b ) adquirir , según sea

cuada para un período de tres meses, a partir de la fecha de salida del lugar donde se encuentren actualmente, siempre que regresen a un país que sufra

necesario, mediante arriendo , donación o, en casos excepcionales únicamente, por medio de su compra, terrenos y edificios, reteniéndolos o enaje-

como resultado de su ocupación por el enemigo durante la gue-

nándolos por arrendamiento, venta o de otra manera ;

rra, y teniendo en cuenta que dichos alimentos deberán ser

(c ) adquirir, retener y traspasar cualquiera otra propiedad

distribuídos bajo la dirección de la Organización, suministrándoles la ropa necesaria y medios de transporte ; y
(b) facilitar, en el caso de personas cuya repatriación no se pueda efectuar, según lo dispuesto en el párrafo (a) de este artículo :

que sea necesaria ; (d) celebrar contratos y con-
traer obligaciones, inclusive contratos con gobiernos o con
autoridades de ocupación o fiscalización, por llos cuales dichas autoridades podrían continuar o tomar a su cargo, parcialmente o en su conjunto,

3107

3108

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

el cuidado y manutención de establecida mediante un convenio

los refugiados y personas desalo- entre la Organización y las Na-

jadas en los territorios bajo su ciones Unidas, tal como se de-

autoridad, bajo la vigilancia de termina en los Artículos 57 y 63

la Organización ;

de la Carta de las Naciones

(e) entrar en negociaciones y Unidas. concertar acuerdos con los
gobiernos ;

ARTÍCULO 4

consultar y cooperar con organizaciones públicas y

MIEMBROS

privadas, cuando se estime con- 1. Pueden ingresar en la Orga-

veniente y siempre que tales nización todos los Estados Miem-

organizaciones ten gan fines bros de las Naciones Unidas. idénticos a los de la Organi- También pueden ingresar los de-

zación y cumplan con los prin- más Estados amantes de la paz cipios de las Naciones Unidas ; que no sean Miembros de las

(g) fomentar el concierto de Naciones Unidas, a recommenda-

acuerdos bilaterales de mutua ción del Comité Ejecutivo y siem-

asistencia para la repatriación pre que obtengan dos terceras de personas desalojadas , obser- partes del voto de los miembros

vando los principios indicados del Consejo General presentes y

en el párrafo (c) (ii) de la que voten, y sujetos a las condiresolución aprobada por la ciones del convenio entre la Or-

Asamblea General de las Na- ganización y las Naciones Unidas,

ciones Unidas el 12 de febrero aprobado de acuerdo con el artíde 1946 , en relación con el culo 3 de esta Constitución.

problema de los refugiados 2. Serán miembros de la Orga-

(Anexo III ) ;

nización los Estados que, de acuer-

(h) nombrar personal , sujeto do con lo señalado en el párrafo

a lo dispuesto en el artículo 1 de este artículo , firmen esta

IX de esta Constitución ;

Constitución sin reservas en cuan-

(i) emprender cualquier plan to a su aprobación posterior, y los

adecuado para realizar la finali- Estados que depositen un instru-

dad de esta Organización ;

mento formal de aceptación ante

(j) firmar acuerdos con países el Secretario General de las Naque puedan y quieran recibir a ciones Unidas , después que sus

los refugiados y personas desalo- representantes autorizados hayan

jadas, con el fin de proteger firmado esta Constitución sujeta sus legítimos derechos e in- a dicha reserva.
tereses hasta donde sea 3. De acuerdo con lo dispuesto

necesario ; y , en general

en el párrafo 1 de este artículo los

(k) realizar cualquier otro Estados cuyos representantes no

acto legal relacionado con el hayan firmado la Constitución

desempeño de sus funciones.

mencionada en el párrafo pre-

ARTÍCULO 3

cedente, o que , habiéndola firmado, no hayan depositado el docu-

RELACIÓN CON LAS NACIONES mento en que se dé fe de la acepta-

UNIDAS

ción dentro de un plazo de seis

La relación entre la Organiza- meses , podrán en todo caso ser ción y las Naciones Unidas será aceptados, como miembros de la

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

Organización en los siguientes tentemente infringido los prin-

casos:

cipios de la Carta de las Naciones

(a) si toman a su cargo la Unidas, podrán ser suspendidos

liquidación de todas las cuotas en el ejercicio de sus derechos y

no pagadas , según la escala prerrogativas como miembros de

respectiva .

la Organización o ser expulsados

(b) si someten a la Organiza- de ella por el Consejo General, si

ción un plan para la admisión, así lo aprueba la Asamblea Geen sus territorios y en calidad neral de las Naciones Unidas. de inmigrantes, de los refugia- 8. El Consejo General podrá

dos y personas desalojadas en suspender en el ejercicio de sus tales cantidades y condiciones derechos y prerrogativas , o ex-

de instalación que, en la opi- pulsar, contando con la aproba-

nión de la Organización, requi- ción de la Asamblea General de eran del Estado solicitante un las Naciones Unidas, a cualquier

gasto o inversión equivalente, o miembro de la Organización que

aproximadamente equivalente , insistentemente viole los prin-

a la cuota que se le había pedido , cipios de esta Constitución . de acuerdo con la escala respec- 9. Todo miembro de la Orga-

tiva, para el presupuesto de la nización se compromete a prestar

Organización .

su apoyo general a la obra de ésta.

4. Aquellos Estados que, al 10. Todo miembro puede pre-

firmar la Constitución , expresen sentar, en cualquier momento, su intención de hacer uso de los aviso por escrito de su renuncia

beneficios de la cláusula (b) del al Presidente del Comité Ejecupárrafo 3 de este artículo, deberán tivo. La renuncia será efectiva

presentar el plan a que se refiere un año después de la fecha de su

dicho párrafo dentro de los tres recibo por el Presidente del Comité

meses subsiguientes , sin perjuicio Ejecutivo.

de presentar dentro de seis meses el respectivo instrumento de aceptación.

ARTÍCULO 5 ÓRGANOS

5. Los miembros de la Orga- Los órganos principales de la

nización que hayan quedado en Organización serán los siguientes : suspenso en el ejercicio de sus el Consejo General, el Comité

derechos y prerrogativas como Miembros de las Naciones Unidas
quedarán en suspenso , si así lo piden las Naciones Unidas , en

Ejecutivo y la Secretaría. ARTÍCULO 6
EL CONSEJO GENERAL

el ejercicio de sus deberes y 1. El Consejo General será el prerrogativas en la Organización. órgano más elevado de la Organi-
6. Los miembros de la Orga- zación , encargado de determinar nización que sean expulsados de las su política . Cada uno de los Naciones Unidas cesarán auto- miembros de la Organización máticamente en su calidad de tendrá un representante en el

miembros de la Organización .

Consejo General y los substitutos

7. Los miembros de la Orga- y consejeros que juzgue necesarios . nización que no lo sean de las Na- Cada miembro tendrá un voto en

ciones Unidas y que hayan insis- el Consejo .

3109

3110

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2. El Comité Ejecutivo con- Consejo General, en una de sus vocará a sesiones al Consejo reuniones anuales , elegirá a cada General, una vez al año cuando uno de los miembros del Comité

menos, entendiéndose que durante Ejecutivo, para un período de dos los tres años subsiguientes a la años . Podrán continuar en el fecha de establecimiento de la ejercicio de sus cargos durante el Organización, el Consejo General tiempo que transcurra entre la tendrá que ser convocado a sesión fecha en que termine el período por lo menos dos veces cada año . para el cual el miembro hubiese

Podrá ser convocado a sesión sido electo y la siguiente reunión especial cuando el Comité Ejecu- del Consejo General en que se tivo lo estime conveniente ; y haga nueva elección . Pueden ser tendrá que ser convocado a sesión reelectos en cualquiera ocasión . especial por el Director General Si ocurre una vacante en el dentro de un plazo de treinta días , Comité Ejecutivo , entre dos

a partir de la fecha en que reciba sesiones del Consejo General , será

una solicitud en tal sentido pre- cubierta de propio acuerdo por el

sentada por una tercera parte de Comité Ejecutivo , nombrando a

los miembros del Consejo.

otro miembro para ocupar el

3. El Presidente del Comité puesto hasta la próxima reunión

Ejecutivo presidirá la primera del Consejo.

reunión, en cada sesión, hasta que 3. El Comité Ejecutivo elegirá

el Consejo General elija a uno de a uno de sus miembros para

sus miembros para presidente .

Presidente y a otro para Vice-

ww

4. El Consejo General procederá presidente , y el período de su inmediatamente a elegir, entre incumbencia será determinado

sus miembros , al primer Vice- por el Consejo General.

presidente, segundo Vicepresidente 4. Se convocará a reunión al

y otros funcionarios que juzgue Comité Ejecutivo de la manera

necesario .

siguiente :

ARTÍCULO 7 EL COMITÉ EJECUTIVO

(a ) mediante convocatoria del Presidente, normalmente dos veces al mes .

1. Entre sesiones del Consejo

(b) cuando quiera que lo

General, el Comité Ejecutivo que-
dará encargado de desempeñar las funciones necesarias para poner

solicite un delegado o un miembro del Comité Ejecutivo , en carta dirigida al Director Gen-

en efecto los acuerdos del Consejo General, y podrá hacer decisiones sobre asuntos de carácter urgente, las que transmitirá al Director

eral, en cuyo caso tendrá que hacerse dentro de un plazo de siete días a partir de la fecha en que se reciba la solicitud .

General, quien se guiará por las mismas, dando cuenta al Comité Ejecutivo de su actuación. Estas

(c) cuando ocurra una vacante en la Presidencia, el Director General deberá convocar una

decisiones quedarán nuevo examen por General .

sujetas el Consejo

reunión, en la cual el primer punto en el orden del día será la elección de Presidente.

2. Formarán el Comité Eje- 5. A fin de poder investigar la cutivo los representantes de nueve situación sobre el terreno , el

miembros de la Organización . El Comité Ejecutivo podrá visitar,

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

en pleno o por medio de una ocurra una vacante en el puesto delegación formada por sus miem- de Director General, el Comité

bros, los campamentos , posadas o Ejecutivo podrá designar un Di-

puntos de reunión a cargo de la rector General interino, para que Organización, y, como consecuen- se haga cargo de todas las fun-

cia de los informes presentados ciones y obligaciones del puesto

sobre dichas visitas, podrá trans- hasta que el Consejo General

mitir las instrucciones del caso al pueda nombrar un nuevo Director

Director General.

General .

6. El Comité Ejecutivo recibirá 3. El Director General desemlos informes del Director General , peñará su puesto bajo contrato, el tal como se dispone en el párrafo cual será firmado por parte de la 6 del artículo 8 de esta Constitu- Organización por el Presidente del ción, y, después de haberlos estu- Consejo Ejecutivo , en una de

diado, pedirá al Director General cuyas cláusulas deberá estipularse

que los transmita al Consejo Ge- que cualquiera de las partes puede neral, acompañados de los comen- dar aviso de cancelación del contarios que el Comité Ejecutivo trato con seis meses de anticipajuzgue apropiados. Se mandarán ción. El Comité Ejecutivo podrá, estos informes y comentarios a en casos excepcionales y sujeto a

todos los miembros del Consejo la subsiguiente confirmación del General, antes de su próxima acuerdo por el Consejo General,

sesión regular, y serán también relevar del cargo al Director Gene-

publicados. El Comité Ejecutivo ral, mediante el voto de dos

podrá pedir al Director General terceras partes de sus miembros,

que presente los informes adicio- siempre que, a juicio del Comité,

nales que se estimen convenientes . la conducta del Director General

ARTÍCULO 8 ADMINISTRACIÓN

justificara tal acción. 4. El Director General nom-
brará el personal de la Organiza-

1. El Director General será el ción, de acuerdo con las reglas principal funcionario administra- fijadas por el Consejo General. tivo de la Organización. Será 5. El Director General deberá

responsable ante el Consejo Ge- estar presente, o estar represen-

neral y el Comité Ejecutivo y tado por uno de sus auxiliares, en

desempeñará las funciones admi- todas las reuniones del Consejo

nistrativas y directivas de la Or- General, del Comité Ejecutivo, y

ganización, de acuerdo con las de todos los demás comités y
decisiones del Consejo General subcomités . Tanto él como su y

el Comité Ejecutivo, dando cuenta representante podrán participar en

de la acción realizada.

las reuniones, pero no tendrán

2. El Director General será derecho a votar.

nombrado por el Consejo General , 6. (a ) Al fin de cada semestre

a propuesta del Comité Ejecutivo . el Director General deberá preSi el Comité Ejecutivo no ha parar un informe sobre la labor propuesto el nombramiento de de la Organización . El informe

ninguna persona aceptable para preparado al fin de cada segundo el Consejo General, éste podrá semestre cubrirá las operaciones nombrar a una que no haya sido de la Organización durante el año propuesta por el Comité. Cuando precedente, dando cuenta exacta

3111

3112

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

de toda la labor realizada durante de sus funciones . Deberán abste-

espec

este período . Estos informes serán nerse de cometer acto alguno que presentados al Comité Ejecutivo , resulte en desdoro de su cargo

para su consideración, y transmi- como funcionarios internacionales ,

tidos después al Consejo General, responsables únicamente ante la

acompañados de los comentarios Organización. Cada miembro de

TEZ

que en relación con ellos haga el la Organización se compromete a

Comité Ejecutivo , tal como se respetar el carácter exclusiva-

señala en el párrafo 6 del artículo 7 mente internacional de los deberes

de esta Constitución.

del Director General y el personal,

10

(b) El Director General deberá y a no tratar de ejercer influencia

presentar, en cada sesión especial alguna sobre ellos en el desempeño

del Consejo General, una memoria de sus obligaciones. sobre la labor desempeñada por

la Organización desde la última reunión .

ARTÍCULO 10 HACIENDA

ARTÍCULO 9 PERSONAL

1. El Director General deberá presentar al Consejo General, por

1. La consideración primordial medio del Comité Ejecutivo , el que se tomará en cuenta al nom- presupuesto anual de la Organibrar el personal y determinar las zación, detallando los gastos de condiciones del servicio, consistirá administración, funcionamiento, y en asegurar el más alto nivel de reinstalación en gran escala, y, eficiencia, integridad y compe- cuando la ocasión lo requiera, los

tencia. También habrá que tomar presupuestos extraordinarios neceen consideración, al escoger el sarios . El Comité Ejecutivo

personal, los principios indicados pasará el presupuesto al Consejo en esta Constitución. Se dará General, acompañando cualesqui-

debida consideración a la impor- era recomendaciones que juzque tancia de contratar el personal de convenientes . Después que el

manera que haya la más amplia Consejo General apruebe definirepresentación geográfica y tivamente el presupesto, la canti-

emplear una cantidad adecuada dad global incluída en cada uno

de personas procedentes de los de los tres títulos siguientes : países de origen de las personas "administración" , "funciona-

desalojadas .

miento" y "reinstalación en gran

2. No podrá emplearse en la escala ", será asignada a los miemOrganización a ninguna persona bros según la proporción, bajo

en quien, según la Parte II, cada título , que determine, de exceptuando el párrafo 5 del vez en cuando , el Consejo General , Anexo I a esta Constitución, no por el voto afirmativo de dos pueda interesarse la Organización . terceras partes de los miembros
3. El Director General y el presentes que hayan votado. personal de la Organización no 2. El importe de las cuotas podrán pedir ni recibir instrucción deberá ser pagado como resultado alguna de ningún gobierno , o de de negociaciones efectuadas , a cualquier autoridad ajena a la petición de los miembros , entre Organización, para el desempeño la Organización y dichos miembros ,

. 62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC . 16, 1946

en especie o en la moneda indicada 7. Sin embargo, el Consejo Genen la decisión del Consejo General eral podrá permitir a dichos miem-

anexa al presupuesto , tomando en bros votar, si cree que la demora consideración las monedas de los en el pago obedece a condiciones

países en donde se efectuarán, que no podían evitar dichos mide vez en cuando , los gastos de la embros .

Organización, prescindiendo de la 8. El presupuesto administra-

moneda en que estén expresados tivo de la Organización deberá ser

los gastos en el presupuesto.

presentado anualmente a la Asam-

3. Cada miembro se compro- blea General de las Naciones Uni-

mete a contribuir su parte corres- das, para las revisiones y recomen-

pondiente de los gastos de admi- daciones que la Asamblea connistración de la Organización, sidere apropiadas. En el con-

según se señala y asigna en los venio en que se relacione a la

párrafos 1 y 2 de este artículo.

Organización con las Naciones

4. Cada miembro deberá con- Unidas, de conformidad con el

tribuir con la cantidad determi- artículo 3 de esta Constitución

nada y asignada, de acuerdo con podrá disponerse , entre otras cosas,

los párrafos 1 y 2 de este artículo, que el presupuesto administrativo para los gastos de funcionamiento de la Organización tiene que ser

excepto para los gastos dedicados aprobado por la Asamblea General a reinstalación en gran escala, de las Naciones Unidas.

sujeto al procedimiento constitucional de cada miembro. Los miembros se comprometen a contribuir voluntariamente a los gas-

9. Sin perjuicio a lo dispuesto en el párrafo 1 de este artículo , en relación con presupuestos extraordinarios, las siguientes dispo-

tos de reinstalación en gran escala siciones excepcionales regirán du-

y de acuerdo con su procedimiento rante el año fiscal en que sea

constitucional .
5. El miembro de la Organización que, pasados tres meses de la fecha en que entrare en vigor esta Constitución, no haya pagado por completo su cuota a la Organización correspondiente al primer período, no tendrá voto en el Consejo General ni en el Comité Ejecutivo hasta que haya satis-

puesta en vigor esta Constitución:
(a) el presupuesto será el provisional indicado en el Anexo II de esta Constitución ; y
(b) las cantidades que deberán contribuir los miembros estarán en la proporción indicada en el Anexo II de esta Constitución.

fecho el importe de dicha cuota. 6. De acuerdo con lo dispuesto

ARTÍCULO 11

en el párrafo 5 de este artículo cualquier miembro de la Organiza-

OFICINA PRINCIPAL Y DEPENDENCIAS

ciónque se haya demorado en el pa- 1. La oficina principal de la

go de su cuota a la Organización, no Organización será establecida en tendrá voto en el Consejo General París o en Ginebra según la
ni en el Comité Ejecutivo, si la decisión del Consejo General, y cantidad que debe es igual o excede todas las reuniones del Consejo

a la suma debida sobre la cuota General y el Comité Ejecutivo asignada al miembro correspon- deberán celebrarse en ésta, exceptudiente al año anterior completo. ando aquellas ocasiones en que

3113

3114

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. ·

la mayoría de los miembros del 2. (a) La Organización gozará, Consejo General o el Comité en el territorio de cada miembro, Ejecutivo hayan convenido en de los privilegios e inmunidades

reunirse en otro lugar, ya sea por que sean necesarios para el ejer-

SSTAN

acuerdo en una sesión anterior o en cicio de sus funciones y la realiza-

correspondencia con el Director ción de sus objetivos .

General .

(b) Los representantes de los

2. El Comité Ejecutivo podrá miembros, los funcionarios y el establecer las oficinas regionales personal de la Organización, goza-

y otras oficinas y dependencias rán, asimismo , de los privilegios

que estime necesarias.

e inmunidades que sean necesarios

3. Unicamente podrán estab- para desempeñar con indepen-

lecerse las oficinas y dependencias dencia sus funciones en relación con el consentimiento del Gobier- con la Organización.

no del país en donde se sitúen.

3. La capacidad jurídica, privi-

ARTÍCULO 12 PROCEDIMIENTO

legios e inmunidades se definirán en un acuerdo que preparará la Organización, después de con-

1. El Consejo General adoptará sultar al Secretario General de las

su propio reglamento interior , Naciones Unidas . Este acuerdo

siguiendo , en general, el regla- permanecerá abierto para acep-

mento del Consejo Económico y tación de todos dos miembros y

T

Social de las Naciones Unidas , obligará a la Organización y a cada

uno de los miembros que lo acepte. siempre que sea adecuado y con

las modificaciones que el Consejo

ARTÍCULO 14

General juzgue necesarias. El Comité Ejecutivo preparará su propio reglamento , sujetándose a

RELACIONES CON OTRAS ORGANIZACIONES

lo que, en referencia con el mismo , 1. La Organización puede, su-

pueda decidir el Consejo General . jeta a lo dispuesto en el convenio 2. Tanto en las reuniones del con las Naciones Unidas de

Consejo General como en las del acuerdo con el artículo 3 de esta Comité Ejecutivo, las mociones Constitución , establecer relaciones serán aprobadas por mayoría efectivas con otras organizaciones simple de los miembros presentes internacionales , en la medida que y que hayan votado , exceptuán- se juzgue conveniente . dose aquellos casos en que se haya 2. La Organización puede asuseñalado otro procedimiento en mir, total o parcialmente , las

esta Constitución o por acuerdo funciones, recursos y obligaciones

del Consejo General.

de cualquiera otra organización

ARTÍCULO 13

intergubernamental u organismo cuyos propósitos y funciones estén

CAPACIDAD JURÍDICA, PRIVI- dentro del campo de competencia

LEGIOS E INMUNIDADES

de la Organización . Tal acción

1. La Organización gozará, en puede consumarse ya sea mediante

el territorio de cada miembro, de arreglos mutuamente aceptables la capacidad jurídica que sea concertados entre los funcionarios

necesaria para el ejercicio de sus competentes de las organizaciones funciones y la realización de sus o por acuerdo 0 convención

objetivos .

internacionales .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC . 16, 1946

ARTÍCULO 15

2. Con sujeción a lo señalado

en el Artículo 96 de la Carta de
RELACIONES CON LAS AUTORIDADES DE LOS PAÍSES EN QUE las Naciones Unidas y el Capítulo ESTÁN LOS REFUGIADOS Y LAS II del Estatuto de la Corte Inter-

PERSONAS DESALOJADAS

nacional de Justicia, toda diver-

Las relaciones entre la Orga- gencia o disputa respecto a la nización y los Gobiernos de los interpretación o aplicación de esta

países en donde se encuentran los refugiados y personas desalojadas, así como las condiciones a que se sujetará su actuación en esos países, se determinarán mediante

Constitución será sometida a la Corte Internacional de Justicia, a menos que el Consejo General o las partes interesadas acuerden otro medio de solucionarla.

acuerdos concertados entre la

ARTÍCULO 18

Organización y dichos Gobiernos o administraciones , de acuerdo con lo dispuesto en esta Constitución.

VIGENCIA
1. (a ) Los Estados pueden llegar a ser partes de esta Constitu-

ARTÍCULO 16

ción mediante:

ENMIENDAS A LA CONSTITUCIÓN

(i) la firma, sin reservas , en cuanto a su aprobación ;

Los textos de las enmiendas que se propongan para esta Constitución serán comunicados por el Director General a los miembros , por lo menos tres meses antes de ser considerados por el Consejo General . Las enmiendas entrarán
en vigor cuando hayan sido adoptadas por el voto de aprobación de las dos terceras partes de los

(ii ) la firma, sujeta a aprobación seguida por aceptación, o (iii) la aceptación. (b) La aceptación se efectuará mediante el depósito de un instrumento oficial ante el Secretario General de las Naciones Unidas. 2. Esta Constitución entrará
en vigor cuando quince Estados, por lo menos, cuyas cuotas obli-

miembros del Consejo General gatorias para la Parte I del presu-

presentes y que hayan votado, y aceptadas por las dos terceras partes de los miembros , de conformidad con sus respectivos procedimientos constitucionales . Entendiéndose, sin embargo, que las reformas que signifiquen una
nueva obligación para los miembros no entrarán en vigor, para
cada miembro, hasta que éste las haya aceptado .

puesto para gastos de operación, según se indica en el Anexo II a esta Constitución , representen, por lo menos , el setenta y cinco por ciento de su importe, hayan llegado a ser partes de ella.
3. De conformidad con el Artículo 102 de la Carta de las Naciones Unidas, el Secretario General de las Naciones Unidas regis-
trará esta Constitución cuando
haya sido firmada sin reservas

ARTÍCULO 17

respecto a su aprobación en nom-

INTERPRETACIÓN

bre de un Estado , o cuando se deposite el primer instrumento de

1. Los textos en chino, español, aceptación .

francés, inglés y ruso de esta Cons- 4. El Secretario General de las

titución serán considerados igual- Naciones Unidas notificará a los

mente auténticos.

Estados partes de esta Constitu-

3115

3116

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ción la fecha en que entre en vigor sola copia en idiomas chino , es-

y les comunicará también la fecha pañol, francés , inglés y ruso. Los

en que otros Estados lleguen a ser textos originales se depositarán en

partes de ella.

los archivos de las Naciones Uni-

EN FE DE LO CUAL, los infras- das. El Secretario General de las

critos , debidamente autorizados Naciones Unidas enviará copias

para tal objeto, firman esta Cons- debidamente certificadas a cada

titución .

uno de los Gobiernos firmantes y

HECHA en Flushing Meadow, al Director General de la Orga-

Nueva York, a los quince días del nización cuando esta Constitución

mes de diciembre de mil nove- entre en vigor y sea electo el cientos cuarenta y seis , en una Director General.

ANEXO I

DEFINICIONES

deberá darse paso alguno que

PRINCIPIOS GENERALES
1. Los siguientes principios generales son parte integrante de las definiciones enumeradas en las partes I y II de este Anexo .

tienda a impedir, de cualquiera manera, su entrega y castigo.
(d) La Organización debe cerciorarse de que esta ayuda no pueda aprovecharse para fomentar actos subversivos u hostiles

(a) El principal objetivo de la Organización será dar rápida y positiva solución al problema de los verdaderos refugiados y personas desalojados, justa y equitativamente para todos los interesados .
(b) La tarea principal , en relación con las personas desalojadas , es alentarlas y ayudarlas a regresar tan pronto como sea posible a sus países de origen, tomando en consideración los
principios indicados en el párrafo (c) (ii) de la resolución aprobada por la Asamblea General de las Naciones Unidas , el día 12 de febrero de 1946 , en relación con el problema de los refugiados (Anexo III) .
(c) Tal como se determina en la resolución aprobada por el Consejo Económico y Social el 16 de febrero de 1946 , no debe prestarse ayuda internacional
alguna a los traidores , quislings y criminales de guerra, y no

en contra de cualquiera de los Gobiernos de las Naciones Unidas .
(e) La Organización debe cerciorarse de que no se explote esta ayuda por personas en cuyo caso pueda verse claramente que no desean regresar a sus países de origen porque prefieren la ociosidad a enfrentarse con la difícil tarea de coadyuvar a la reconstrucción de sus países, o por personas que quieran establecerse en otros países simplemente por razones económicas, y que por lo tanto son, en realidad, emigrantes.
Por otra parte , la Organización debe también cerciorarse de que no haya ningún verdadero refugiado o persona desalojada a quien se prive de la ayuda que pueda impartírsele.
(g) La Organización deberá esforzarse, al desempeñar sus labores, en no perturbar las relaciones amistosas entre las na-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

ciones. Con este objetivo en

(a) Víctimas de los regímenes

vista, la Organización debe pre- nazi o fascista o de regímenes

ocuparse especialmente de tener sumo cuidado en casos en donde

que tomaron parte a su lado en la segunda guerra mundial, o

se tenga pensado reinstalar o restablecer a los refugiados y

de regímenes de los quislings u otros similares que los ayudaron

personas desalojadas en países contra las Naciones Unidas,

contiguos a sus respectivos tanto si disfrutan o no, con

países de origen, o en países no autónomos. La Organización deberá estudiar cuidadosamente, entre otros factores, toda prueba de verdadera aprensión e inquietud sentidas en relación con dichos planes, en el primer caso

carácter internacional, de la condición de refugiados ;
(b) Los republicanos españoles y otras víctimas del régimen falangista en España, tanto si disfrutan o no internacionalmente de la condición de refu-

por el país de origen de las personas afectadas o , en el segundo caso, por las poblaciones indígenas de los territorios no autónomos en cuestión.

giados ; (c) Personas consideradas
como refugiados antes de que estallara la segunda guerra mundial, a causa de su raza, religión ,

2. Con el fin de asegurar la aplicación imparcial y equitativa de

nacionalidad u opiniones políticas.

los principios antes mencionados y de las condiciones de las definiciones siguientes, es necesario establecer un sistema especial de

2. Sujeto a lo dispuesto en las secciones C y D y la Parte II de este Anexo, relacionadas con la exclusión de ciertas clases de per-

mecanismo cuasi judicial, con con-
stitución, reglamento y atribuciones adecuadas.

sonas, incluyéndose los criminales de guerra , quislings y traidores, de los beneficios impartidos por la

PARTE I

Organización, la palabra "refugi-

ado" se aplica también a cualquiRefugiados y personas desalo- era persona que no esté incluída en
jadas en el sentido de la resolución el sentido de la palabra desalojado ,

aprobada por el Consejo Económico según se define en la sección B de

y Social de las Naciones Unidas el este Anexo, que se encuentra fuera

16 de febrero de 1946.

del país de que es nacional o en el

SECCIÓN A- DEFINICIÓN DE REFUGIADOS
1. Sujeto a lo dispuesto en las secciones Cy D y la Parte II de

que antes residía habitualmente, y quien, como resultado de acon-
tecimientos ocurridos después de haber estallado la segunda guerra mundial, no puede, o no quiere,

este Anexo, se designa con la aprovecharse de la protección del

palabra "refugiado " a la persona Gobierno de su país de nacionali-
que ha dejado o está fuera de su dad o anterior nacionalidad. país de nacionalidad o en el que 3. Sujeto a lo dispuesto en la

antes residía habitualmente, y sección D de la Parte II de este
quien, tanto si ha retenido o no Anexo , se aplica también la palasu anterior nacionalidad, pertenece bra "refugiado " a personas que, a uno de los siguientes grupos : habiendo residido en Alemania o

3117

3118

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

Austria, y siendo de origen judío, II , párrafo 1 (a) de esta Consti-

extranjeros o personas sin patria, tución , y con sujeción a lo dispufueron víctimas de la persecución esto en el párrafo (c) , subpárrafos de los Nazis , o se les detuvo en (ii) y (iii) de la resolución de la uno de aquellos países , o se vieron Asamblea General del 12 de feb-

S

obligados a escapar de ellos y se rero de 1946 , en relación con el prob-

Co

les hizo volver después a los mis- lema de los refugiados (Anexo

mos, como resultado de la acción III ) .

del enemigo o de las circunstan-

cias de la guerra, y no han podido SECCIÓN C- CONDICIONES BAJO

todavía volverse a establecer firme- LAS CUALES

ORGANIZACIÓN

a

mente en ellos .

SE ENCARGARÁ DE LOS "REFU-

4. Se aplica también la palabra GIADOS" Y DE LAS "PERSONAS DE-

&

"refugiado " a niños abandonados SALOJADAS"

que sean huérfanos de guerra o

cuyos padres han desaparecido , y 1. En el caso de personas inclu-

que estén fuera de sus países de ídas en todos los grupos antes

origen. Debe darse a estos niños mencionados , exceptuándose las

menores de 16 años la mayor prior- indicadas en la sección A , párrafos

idad posible en la distribución de 1 (b) y 3 de este Anexo es , la P
auxilios , incluso , en el caso de Organización deberá encargarse de aquellos cuya nacionalidad puede ellas, en el sentido de la resolución

ser determinada, ayuda para la aprobada el 16 de febrero de 1946

repatriación .

por el Consejo Económico y Social, si pueden ser repatriadas , y si se

SECCIÓN B- DEFINICIÓN DEL TÉR- necesita de la ayuda de la OrganMINO PERSONAS DESALOJADAS ización para efectuar su repatriación, o si con absoluta libertad y El término "personas desalo- después de haberse enterado clara-

jadas " se aplica a aquellas que , como resultado de los actos de las autoridades de los regímenes mencionados en la Parte I, sección

mente de la situación , y habiendo recibido informes adecuados de los Gobiernos de los países de que son nacionales o en que residían

A, párrafo 1 (a) de este Anexo, han habitualmente, han expresado rasido deportadas o se les ha obligado zones válidas para no regresar a

a salir de su país de nacionalidad o aquellos países.

en el que antes residían habitual-

(a) Se reconocerán como vá-

mente, y a aquellas a quienes se lidas las siguientes objeciones :

sujetó a trabajos forzados o a quienes se deportó por razón política, de raza o religiosa . La Organización tendrá que encargarse de

(i) la persecución, o el temor bien fundado , de persecución por motivos raciales, religiosos, de nacionalidad u

las personas desalojadas únicamente de acuerdo con las secciones

opiniones políticas, siempre que estas opiniones no se

Cy D de la Parte I y en conformidad con la Parte II de este Anexo .

opongan a los principios de las Naciones Unidas, según

Si ha dejado de existir el motivo

enunciados en el Preámbulo

de su desalojamiento deberán ser

de la Carta de las Naciones

repatriadas tan pronto como sea posible, de acuerdo con el artículo

Unidas ;

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

(ii) objeciones de carácter men falangista . Si dicho régimen

político que la Organización es substituído por uno democrático considere " válidas " , tal como tendrán que presentar objeciones se entiende en el párrafo 8 válidas para no regresar a España,

(a)¹ del informe del Tercer que correspondan a las indicadas Comité a la Asamblea Gen- en el párrafo 1 (a) de esta sección .

eral, según fué aprobado por

la Asamblea el 12 de febrero SECCIÓN D- CIRCUNSTANCIAS EN

de 1946.

QUE LA ORGANIZACIÓN DEJARÁ

(iii) razones poderosas de carácter familiar, como resultado de persecución sufrida

DE HACERSE CARGO DE LOS REFUGIADOS Y PERSONAS DESALOJADAS

anteriormente, o por enfermedad o dolencia, en el caso de personas comprendidas en la sección A, párrafos 1 (a) y 1

Los refugiados y personas desalojadas dejarán de estar al cuidado de la Organización :

(c).

(a) cuando hayan regresado

(b) Normalmente serán con- a los países Miembros de las

siderados como "informes ade- Naciones Unidas y de los cuales

cuados" los siguientes : informes relacionados con la situación en

son nacionales, a menos que el lugar en que residían habitual-

los países de que son nacionales los refugiados o personas desalojadas interesadas, que les hayan sido comunicados directamente
por los representantes de los gobiernos de dichos países, a qui-
enes debe darse amplias facilidades para visitar los campamentos y puntos de reunión de refugiados y personas desalojadas, para que puedan suministrarles dichos informes .

mente y al que deseen regresar no esté dentro del país del cual son nacionales ; o
(b) cuando hayan adquirido nueva nacionalidad ; o
(c) cuando, según lo determine la Organización , se hayan establecido definitivamente de otra manera ; o
(d) cuando hayan rehusado, sin razón, aceptar las propuestas que les haya hecho la Organiza-

2. En el caso de refugiados comprendidos en la sección A, párrafo 1 (b ) de este Anexo , la Organización deberá encargarse de ellos, en el sentido de la resolución
adoptada por el Consejo Económico y Social de las Naciones

ción para su reestablecimiento ; o (e) cuando no hagan lo nece-
sario para ganarse la vida siendo para ellos posible hacerlo, o cuando exploten la ayuda proporcionada por la Organización .
PARTE II

Unidas el 16 de febrero de 1946 , mientras dure en España el régi-
¹ Párrafo 8 (a) : "Al responder al delegado de Bélgica,

Personas en cuyo favor no se interesará la Organización
1. Criminales de guerra, quis-

el Presidente manifestó que se sobrentendía que el cuerpo internacional
determinaría las que eran ' objeciones válidas' y las que no lo eran, y que
dichas objeciones podían claramente ser de carácter político" .

lings y traidores. 2. Todos aquellos de quienes se
pueda demostrar que :
(a) han ayudado al enemigo a perseguir a la población civil

3119

3120

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

de los países que son Miembros a no ser que su país de nacionali-

de las Naciones Unidas ; o

dad solicite que se les ayude

(b) han ayudado voluntaria- internacionalmente .

mente a las fuerzas enemigas 6. Aquellos que, desde el cese desde que estalló la segunda de hostilidades en la segunda

guerra mundial, en sus operaci- guerra mundial:

ones contra las Naciones Unidas.¹

(a) hayan participado en cualquiera organización que tuvi-

3. Criminales comunes, a quie- ese como objetivo el derroca-

nes se puede aplicar la extradición miento , por medio de las armas,

según los tratados .

del Gobierno de su país de

4. Aquellos que, siendo de ori- origen, si se trataba de un

gen alemán (tanto si son nacio- Miembro de las Naciones Uni-

nales alemanes, como si pertenecen a las minorías alemanas en otros

das, o el derrocamiento , por medio de las armas , del Gobierno

países ) :

de cualquier otro Miembro de

(a) hayan sido o puedan ser las Naciones Unidas, o que

transferidos a Alemania desde hayan participado en cualquiera

otros países ;

organización terrorista ;

(b) hayan sido evacuados desde Alemania a otros países

(b) se hayan puesto a la cabeza de movimientos hostiles

durante la segunda guerra mundial ;

contra el Gobierno de sus países de origen, si se trata de un

(c) hayan huído de Alemania , Miembro de las Naciones Uni-

o hayan escapado a Alemania, o hayan salido de cualquier otro país en donde residieran fuera de Alemania, para no caer en manos de los ejércitos aliados .

das, o que hayan patrocinado movimientos alentando a los refugiados a no regresar a sus países de origen ;
(c) en el momento en que

5. Aquellos que reciban ayuda económica y están bajo la protec-

soliciten ayuda estuviesen empleados en el servicio militar o

ción del país de que son nacionales , público de un país extranjero .

ANEXO II

PRESUPUESTO Y CUOTAS PARA EL PRIMER EJERCICIO

los Estados Unidos , para gastos de funcionamiento (salvo gastos de

1. El presupuesto provisional reinstalación en gran escala) , más para el primer año económico as- 5.000.000 de dólares , moneda de cenderá a la suma de 4.800.000 dó- los Estados Unidos, para gastos de

lares, moneda de los Estados Uni- reinstalación en gran escala. Todo

dos, para gastos de administración, saldo de estas partidas no inver-

y a 151.060.500 dólares , moneda de tido debe ser traspasado a la cor-

1 La simple continuación de los quehaceres normales y pacíficos, no desempeñándolos con el exclusivo fin de ayudar al enemigo en contra de los aliados , o en contra de la población civil del territorio ocupado por el enemigo, no se clasificará como "ayuda voluntaria" . Ni se considerarán en tal sentido actos simplemente humanitarios, como el auxilio a los heridos o moribundos, excepto en aquellos
casos en que pudieran haberse proporcionado a los nacionales de los países aliados, auxilios iguales a los suministrados a los nacionales de países enemigos e intencionadamente se les negó tal auxilio.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

respondiente partida, como haber para el presupuesto del siguiente año económico .
2. Estas sumas (salvo los gastos

Pais Turquía Ucrania (República
Soviética de)
Sudáfrica . ·

Porcentaje 0.91
Socialista 0.84 1. 12

de reinstalación en gran escala) Unión de las Repúblicas Socia-

serán sufragadas mediante las listas Soviéticas

cuotas de los miembros en las Reino Unido Estados Unidos de América .

proporciones siguientes :

Uruguay ·

6. 34 11. 48 39.89 0. 18

Venezuela

A-PARA GASTOS DE

ADMINISTRACIÓN

Yugoslavia

País

Porcentaje

0. 27 0.33

Afganistán

0.05

100.00

Argentina. Australia .

1. 85 B-PARA GASTOS DE FUNCIONAMIENTO
1. 97

Bélgica . Bolivia .

1. 35 (SALVO GASTOS DE REINSTALACIÓN EN

0. 08

GRAN ESCALA)

Brasil
Bielorussia (República lista Soviética de) .
Canadá . Chile · China Colombia . Costa Rica Cuba
Checoslovaquia Dinamarca
República Dominicana Ecuador · · Egipto . El Salvador .
Etiopía . · Francia Grecia . Guatemala Haití Honduras Islandia. India Irán .

Socia-

1. 85 Pais Afganistán ·
0. 22 Argentina 3. 20 Australia . 0.45 Bélgica . 6.00 Bolivia . 0.37 Brasil 0.04 Bielorussia (República 0.29 ista Soviética de) · 0.90 Canadá 0. 79 Chile · 0.05 China 0.05 Colombia . 0.79 Costa Rica 0.05 Cuba 0.08 Checoslovaquia · 6.00 Dinamarca . 0. 17 República Dominicana 0.05 Ecuador · · 0.04 Egipto . 0.04 El Salvador . 0.04 Etiopía 3. 95 Francia

Porcentaje 0.03 1.50 1.76 1.00 0.07 1. 50
Social0. 16 3. 50 0.39 2.50 0.32 0.02 0. 24 0.80 0.68 0. 04 0. 04 0.68 0. 03 0.07 4. 10

Irak .

0.45 Grecia

0. 15

Líbano .

0.17 Guatemala

0.04

Liberia .

0.06 Haití

0.02

Luxemburgo.
México . · Holanda

0.04 Honduras 0.05 Islandia · 0.63 India ·

0.02 0.02 3. 66

Nueva Zelandia

1. 40 Irán

0. 39

Nicaragua. · Noruega
Panamá ·
Paraguay Perú .

0.50 Irak 0.04 Líbano . · 0.50 Liberia . 0.05 Luxemburgo · 0.04 México .

0. 15 0. 05 0.02 0.04 0.54

Filipinas . Polonia

0. 20 Holanda 0.29 Nueva Zelandia

0.90 0. 44

Arabia Saudita

0.95 Nicaragua ·

0.02

Suecia

0.08 Noruega · ·

0.44

Siria .

2.35 Panamá · ·

0. 04

0.12 Paraguay .

0.02

3121

3122

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

País Perú . · Filipinas · Polonia Arabia Saudita

Porcentaje País 0.17 Uruguay 0.24 Venezuela · 0.61 Yugoslavia · 0. 07 Nuevos Miembros

Porcentaje 0. 15 0.23 0. 23 1.92

Suecia · Siria .

2. 20 0.10

100.00

Turquía

0.88

Ucrania (República Socialista

Soviética de) ·

·

Sudáfrica .

Unión de las Repúblicas Socia-

listas Soviéticas · ·

Reino Unido

.

Estados Unidos de América . ·

0.62 3. Las cuotas para los gastos de 1.00 reinstalación en gran escala se 4.69 regirán por las disposiciones del 14.75 Artículo X, párrafo 4, de estos 45. 75 Estatutos.

ANEXO III

RESOLUCIÓN APROBADA POR LA ASAMBLEA GENERAL EL 12 DE FEBRERO DE 1946

(c) RECOMIENDA al Consejo Económico y Social que al estudiar este asunto tome en

(documento A/45)

consideración los siguientes principios:

LA ASAMBLEA GENERAL,
RECONOCIENDO que es de inmediata urgencia el problema de los refugiados y personas desalojadas de todas clases, y reconociendo la necesidad de hacer una distinción clara entre los verdaderos refugiados y personas desalojadas , por un lado , y los criminales de guerra, quislings y traidores mencionados en el siguiente párrafo (d) , por el otro lado :
(a ) DECIDE referir este problema al Consejo Económico y Social, para que lo estudie detenidamente, en todos sus aspectos , según el punto número 10 de su programa para la primera sesión del Consejo y para que presente el informe correspondiente a la Asamblea General, durante la segunda parte de su primera sesión ;

(i ) el carácter y alcance internacional de este problema.
(ii) que no se podrá obligar a regresar a su país de origen a ningún refugiado o persona desalojada que, final y definitivamente con absoluta libertad y después de habérsele dado a conocer completamente la situación, incluyendo informes adecuados por el gobierno de su país de origen, exprese objeciones válidas y no esté incluído en lo dispuesto en el párrafo (d) subsiguiente . El organismo internacional que se reconozca o establezca como resultado del
informe mencionado en los párrafos (a) y (b) precedentes, se hará cargo del futuro de dichos
refugiados o personas desalojadas , exceptuando aquellos casos en que el Gobierno del país en que están establecidos

(b) RECOMIENDA al Consejo Económico y Social que designe un comité especial para llevar a cabo, tan pronto como se pueda, el examen del asunto y preparación del informe mencionado en el párrafo (a) ; y

haga arreglos con este organismo para hacerse cargo del costo de su sustento y responsable de su protección ;
(iii ) que la tarea principal, en relación con las personas
desalojadas , consiste en alentar-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL--INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION--DEC . 16, 1946

las y ayudarlas , por todos los lings y traidores, de conformidad medios posibles, a regresar con los acuerdos o convenciones

pronto a sus países de origen. internacionales presentes y fuPuede impartirse dicha ayuda turos ; mediante el concierto de con- (e) CONSIDERA que los alemanes venios bilaterales de ayuda transferidos a Alemania desde

mutua para la repatriación de otros Estados para no caer en

dichas personas, observándose manos de las tropas aliadas, no los principios señalados en el están incluídos en los efectos de

párrafo (c) (ii ) precedente ;

esta declaración, puesto que su

(d) CONSIDERA que ningún acto situación puede ser resuelta por llevado a cabo como resultado de las fuerzas aliadas de ocupación esta resolución obstaculizará en en Alemania en convenios con los forma alguna la entrega y castigo Gobiernos de sus respectivos

de los criminales de guerra, quis- países .

FOR AFGHANISTAN : POUR L'AFGHANISTAN:
 :   : POR EL AFGANISTÁN:

FOR THE Kingdom of Belgium : POUR LE ROYAUME DE BELGIQUE :  :   : POR EL REINO DE BÉLGICA:

3123

FOR ARGENTINA: POUR L'ARGENTINE :
 :   : POR LA ARGENTINA:

FOR BOLIVIA: POUR LA BOLIVIE:  :  : POR BOLIVIA:

FOR AUSTRALIA: POUR L'AUSTRALIE:  :  : POR AUSTRALIA:
68706-52- PT. III- -38

FOR BRAZIL : POUR LE BRÉSIL
 :  : POR EL BRASIL:

3124

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT .
FOR THE BYELORUSSIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST Republic : POUR LA RÉPUBLIQUE Socialiste Soviétique de Biélorussie :   :      : POR LA REPÚBLICA SOCIALISTA SOVIÉTICA BIELORUSA :

FOR CANADA: POUR LE CANADA:  :   : POR EL CANADA :
Sabject to approvall Paul MARTIN Dec. 16, 1946
FOR CHILE: POUR LE CHILI:  :   : POR CHILE:

FOR CHINA: POUR LA CHINE :  :   : POR LA CHINA:
FOR COLOMBIA: POUR LA COLOMBIE:  :   : POR COLOMBIA:

Treduction du Secrétariat des Nations Unies: 1Sous réserve d'approbation.

FOR COSTA RICA: POUR COSTA-RICA:  :   : POR COSTA RICA:

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

FOR CUBA: POUR CUBA:  : 3a Kyy: POR CUBA:

FOR THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC : POUR LA RÉPUBLIQUE DominicaINE :  :    : POR LA REPÚBLICA DOMINICANA:

Firmado bajo reserva de su ratificacion por el Congreso de la Republica Dominicanal Emilio GARCIA GODOY
Diciembre 17, 1946

3125

FOR CZECHOSLOVAKIA: POUR LA TCHÉCOSLOVAQUIE :
 :  : POR CHECOESLOVAQUIA:

FOR ECUADOR: POUR L'EQUATEUR :  :  : POR EL ECUADOR :

FOR DENMARK: POUR LE DANEMARK:
 :   : POR DINAMARCA:

FOR EGYPT: POUR L'EGYPTE:  : 3a Ermer: POR EGIPTO:
Translation by the Secretariat ofthe UnitedNations: 1Signed subject to its ratification bythe Congress ofthe Dominican Republic. Traduction du Secrétariat desNations Unies: 1Signé sous réserve de sa ratification par le Congrés de la République Dominicaine.

3126

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

FOR EL SALVADOR: POUR LE SALVADOR:
 :  : POR EL SALVADOR:

FOR GREECE: POUR LA GRÈCE:
 :   : POR GRECIA:

FOR ETHIOPIA: POUR L'ETHIOPIE:
 :  : POR ETIOPÍA:

FOR GUATEMALA: POUR LE GUATEMALA:  :  : POR GUATEMALA:
Firma ad referendum! Jorge Garcia GRANADOS 16 de Diciembre de 1946

FOR FRANCE: POUR LA FRANCE :
 :   : POR FRANCIA:

FOR HAITI : POUR HAÏTI :
 :   : POR HAITÍ:

Sous réserve d'approbation" Alexandre PARODI
17 décembre 1946

Translation by the Secretariat ofthe United Nations; 1 Subject to approval.

Translation by the Secretariat ofthe UnitedNations: 1TSriagdnuecdtiaodn rdeufSeercernédtuarmi.at des Nations Unies: 1Signé ad referendum.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

FOR HONDURAS: POUR LE HONDURAS :  :   : POR HONDURAS:

FOR IRAN: POUR L'IRAN:  :   : POR IRÁN:

Ad referendum Tiburcio CARIAS, Jr.
18 de Diciembre 1946

3127

FOR ICELAND: POUR L'ISLANDE:  :   : POR ISLANDIA:

FOR IRAQ: POUR L'IRAK :  :  : POR IRAK :

FOR INDIA: POUR L'INDE:  :   : POR LA INDIA:

FOR LEBANON: POUR LE LIBAN :  :   : POR EL LÍBANO:

3128

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

FOR LIBERIA: POUR LE LIBÉRIA:  :  : POR LIBERIA:

FOR THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS: POUR LE ROYAUME DES PAYS-BAS:  :    : POR EL REINO DE HOLANDA:

Subject to ratification C. Abayomi CASSELL 31 December 1946

FOR THE GRAND DUCHY OF Luxembourg: POUR LE GRAND-DUCHÉ DE Luxembourg:  :    : POR EL GRAN DUCADO DE LUXEMBURGO:

FOR NEW ZEALAND : POUR LA NOUVElle-Zélande:  :   : POR NUEVA ZELANDIA:

FOR MEXICO: POUR LE MEXIQUE:  :  : POR MÉXICO:

FOR NICARAGUA: POUR LE NICARAGUA:  :   : POR NICARAGUA:

Traduction du Secrétariat des Nations Unies: Sous réserve de ratification.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946

FOR THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY: POUR LE ROYAUME DE NORVÈGE :  :    : POR EL REINO DE NORUEGA:

FOR PERU: POUR LE PÉROU:  :   : POR EL PERÚ:

3129

FOR PANAMA: POUR LE PANAMA:  :  : POR PANAMÁ:
FOR PARAGUAY: POUR LE PARAGUAY:  :  : POR EL PARAGUAY!

FOR THE PHILippine Republic : POUR LA RÉPUBLIQUE DES PHILIPPINES:  :   : POR LA REPÚBLICA DE FILIPINAS:
Subject to approval Carlos P. ROMULO December 18, 1946
FOR POLAND: POUR LA POLOGNE:  :  : POR POLONIA:

Traduction du Sécretariat des Nations Unies: 1Sous réserve d'approbation.

3130

STAT INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

FOR SAUDI ARABIA:

FOR TURKEY:

FORTHE

POUR L'ARABIE SAOUDITE: POUR LA TURQUIE:

 :

 :

  :

 :

POR ARABIA SAUDITA:

POR TURQUÍA:

P

FOR SWEDEN: POUR LA SUEDE :  :  : POR SUECIA:

FOR THE UKRAINIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST Republic: Pour la République Socialiste Soviétique d'Ukraine :   :     : POR LA REPÚBLICA SOCIALISTA SOVIÉTICA UCRANIANA:

FOR SYRIA: POUR LA SYRIE :  :   : POR SIRIA:

FOR THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA: POUR L'UNION SUD-AFRICAINE :  :    : POR LA UNIÓN SUDAFRICANA:

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION-DEC. 16, 1946

FOR THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS : POUR L'UNION DES Républiques SocIALISTES SOVIÉTIQUES :   :      : POR LA UNIÓN De Repúblicas SOCIALISTAS SOVIÉTICAS:

FOR URUGUAY: POUR L'URUGUAY:  :  : POR EL URUGUAY:

3131

FOR THE UNITED Kingdom of Great Britain and NorthERN IRELAND: POUR LE ROYAUME-UNI DE GRande-Bretagne et d'IrlanDE DU NORD:  :
      : POR EL REINO Unido de la Gran Bretaña e Irlanda del NORTE :

FOR Venezuela : POUR LE VENEZUELA:
 :  : POR VENEZUELA:

FOR THE UNITED States of AMERICA: POUR LES ETATS-UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE :  :     : POR LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMÉRICA:
Subject to approvali Warren R. AUSTIN December 16, 1946

FOR YUGOSLAVIA: POUR LA YOUGOSLAVIE :  :  : POR YUGOSLAVIA:

Traduction du 1Sous réserve dS'eacprpértariat des Nations Unies: obation.

Certified true copy. For the Secretary- General:

Copie certifiée conforme. Pour le Secrétaire général:

Dr IVAN KERNO

Assistant Secretary-General in charge of the Legal Department.
Secrétaire général adjoint chargé du Département juridique. 68706-52-PT. III- -34

3132

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Instrument of acceptance on behalf of the United States of America ofthe Constitution ofthe International Refugee Organization
ACCEPTANCE ON THE PART OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

I , Harry S. Truman, President of the United States of America,

pursuant to the authority granted by the joint resolution of the

61 Stat. 214. 22 U. S. C. , Supp . I, §§ 289-289d.

Congress of the United States of America approved July 1 , 1947 (Public Law 146 , 80th Congress) , hereby accept, on behalf of the United States of America, the Constitution of the International

Refugee Organization , which was signed for the United States of

America, subject to approval, on December 16 , 1946 .

The above-mentioned joint resolution reads in part as follows :f

"Provided, however, That this authority is granted and the approval o the Congress of the acceptance of membership of the United States in the International Refugee Organization is given upon condition and with the reservation that no agreement shall be concluded on behalf of the United States and no action shall be taken by any officer, agency, or any other person and acceptance of the constitution of the Organization by or on behalf of the Government of the United States shall not constitute or authorize action ( 1 ) whereby any person shall be admitted to or settled or resettled in the United States or
any of its Territories or possessions without prior approval thereof by the Congress , and this joint resolution shall not be construed as such prior approval , or (2) which will have the effect of abrogating, suspending, modifying, adding to , or superseding any of the immigration laws or any other laws of the United States ."
Done at Washington this first day of July 1947. HARRY S TRUMAN

The Secretary-General of the United Nations to the Secretary of State

UNITED NATIONS LAKE SUCCESS , NEW YORK

NATIONS UNIES FIELDSTONE 7-1100

LEG 73/02/AL

28 August 1948

REFERENCE : CONSTITUTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL REFUGEE ORGANIZATION

Entry into force. Ante, p. 3047.

SIR, I have the honour to inform you that, Denmark having signed
without reservation as to approval the Constitution of the International Refugee Organization on 20 August 1948 , the Constitution has now come into force, since the conditions laid down by Article 18, paragraph 2 , have been fulfilled .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INT. REFUGEE ORGANIZATION- DEC. 16, 1946
The fifteen States shown on the attached list , whose contributions to Part 1 of the operational budget amounts to 75.96 % of the total thereof have become parties to the said Constitution.
I have the honour to be, Sir, Your obedient Servant,
For the Secretary-General  T aba
H. Saba Director Legal Department The Honorable, THE SECRETARY OF STATE , Department of State, Washington 25, D. C.

UNITED NATIONS

NATIONS UNIES

STATES PARTIES TO THE INTERNATIONAL REFUGEE ORGANIZATION

United Kingdom .

signature without 5 February 1947 reservation as to

New Zealand China . Iceland · · Australia · United States of America .

approval

66

""

66 66 66

66 ""

66

17 March 29 April 12 May 13 May

. deposit of an in- 3 July

strument of ac-

1947 1947 1947 1947 1947

Guatemala Canada Netherlands Norway Dominican Republic France . Belgium . Luxembourg Denmark ·

ceptance 66 66 "6

"" 66

"" "" ""

66 ""

66

66

"" 66

66 66 ""

28 July 7 August
11 August 18 August 22 October
3 March 30 March

acceptance

4 August

signature without 20 August

reservation as to

1947 1947 1947 1947 1947 1948 1948 1948 ['] 1948

approval

1 Should read "5 August 1948 ", according to note Leg. 73/02/SK, dated Oct. 26 , 1948, from the Acting Director of the Legal Department of the United Nations to the Secretary of State.

3133

3134

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

August 21 , 1947, January 27, 1948 (T. I. A. S. 1847]

Agreement between the United States of America and Cuba amending and extending the agreement of July 17 and August 2 , 1944 , respecting a cooperative program for weather stations in Cuba. Effected by exchange of notes dated at Habana August 21 , 1947 , and January 27, 1948; entered into force January 27 , 1948 , effective retroactively July 1 , 1947.

No. 561 The American Embassy to the Cuban Ministry of State
The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Minister of State of the Republic of Cuba, and has the p.641084S.tat., Pt. 4. honor to refer to the Embassy's note No. 632 of July 17, 1944 and the p.641087S.tat . , Pt . 4, Ministry's note No. 1927 of August 2 , 1944 in connection with the establishment and operation for a period of approximately three years of a radiosonde station in Habana .
This agreement expired on June 30, 1947 and the Embassy, therefore, has the honor to submit for the Cuban Government's consideration and approval an amended Memorandum Agreement covering the continued operation of the station in Habana and an additional station to be located at Camaguey for a further period of three years from June 30, 1947 .
In view of the vital importance to both countries of accurate and reliable weather information , my Government trusts that the Cuban Government may give the enclosed Memorandum Agreement concerning this cooperative radiosonde project urgent consideration and inform it at the earliest possible moment as to its acceptability.
The Embassy avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of State the assurance of its highest consideration.
AMERICAN EMBASSY, Habana, August 21 , 1947.

MEMORANDUM AGREEMENT

Exchange of meteorological data.

The Government of the United States, through the United States

Weather Bureau, proposes to cooperate with the Government of

Cuba, through the Cuban Meteorological Service, in continuing the

regular exchange of meteorological data, subject to the following

understanding :

1. To cooperate in the continued operation of the radiosonde observation station in Habana, and in the establishment of an additional station at Camaguey.
2. To provide for the daily exchange of upper-air weather observations between the United States Weather Bureau and the Cuban Meteorological Service for the use of each country,

62 STAT. ]

CUBA- WEATHER STATIONS- Aug. 21, 1947 Jan. 27, 1948

3135

especially in serving the needs of aviation, and to render it

possible for the Government of the United States and the Government of Cuba to assist in the development of an ex-

change of weather information, forecasts, and warnings.

To attain the foregoing objectives, the United States Weather Bureau, which has already supplied the necessary equipment for the Habana station, agrees to :

Action by U. S. Weather Bureau.

a ) Provide and install the ground equipment necessary for making radiosonde observations at a station to be situated at Camaguey, and pay the cost of necessary repairs at both stations, and

b) Authorize one of its technicians to visit the observation sta-

tions to repair the ground equipment, whenever such equip-

ment becomes inoperative and repairs cannot be made locally.

c) Provide the necessary radiosondes, balloons, parachutes,

helium gas , meteorological forms and other accessories re-

quired for the observations at both stations.

The Government of Cuba, through the Cuban Meteorological MeAtecotrioolongibcyalCSuebravn-

Service, agrees to :

ice.

(a) Assign a minimum of one observer and one assistant at the stations for the purpose of making the following observations, in accordance with standard practice and procedure:

(1 ) Two observations daily at 0400 and 1600 GCT at Habana , to include rawins (winds-aloft observations by radio direction-finding methods.
(2) One observation daily at 0400 GCT at Camaguey.

(b) Supply the necessary office quarters and office equipment, including heat , light and electric power.
(c) Provide adequate ground space and shed for the balloon inflation shelter, as may be necessary.
(d) Arrange for the prompt transmission of the radiosonde observation reports made pursuant to this Agreement to a point in the United States to be designated by the United States Weather Bureau .
(e) Make available the recorder records to the United States Weather Bureau for reference purposes, and to supply that Bureau with copies of the Weather Bureau forms which will be used for all radiosonde observations made at the stations ; and

(f) Arrange for entry into Cuba, duty free, of all meteorological equipment and supplies shipped from the United States for use in this cooperative radiosonde project.
I. All expenditures incurred by the United States Weather Bureau shall be paid direct by that organization , and all expenditures incident to the obligations assumed by the Government of Cuba shall be paid direct by that Government.

Expenditures.

3136

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Title to property.

II. Title to all property supplied by the Cuban Government shall

remain vested in that Government, and likewise the title to all prop-

erty supplied by the Government of the United States shall remain

vested therein.

Effective date; dura-

tion.

This Agreement shall come into effect, retroactive to July 1 , 1947 ,

on the day on which it is accepted by the Government of Cuba, and

shall continue in effect until June 30, 1950 , or for an additional period

if mutually agreed upon in writing, unless the Congress of either

country shall fail to make available the funds necessary for its execu-

tion, in which case it may be terminated on sixty days' advance written notice by the Government of either country.

The Cuban Ministry of State to the American Embassy REPUBLICA DE CUBA MINISTERIO DE ESTADO
200
El Ministerio de Estado presenta sus respetos a la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América , y en relación con correspondencia anterior acerca de su atenta nota verbal número 816 , de 17 de diciembre último , referente a Acuerdo-Memorandum sobre establecimiento de estaciones Meteorologicas Radiosondas, tiene el honor de remitirle, con la presente, copia de la comunicación número 1354 , de 21 del mes actual, del señor Ministro de Defensa Nacional, en que se traslada escrito del señor Comodoro Jefe de Estado Mayor General de la Marina de Guerra, sobre la materia.
El Ministerio de Estado reitera a la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América la segurudad de su más alta consideración.
La Habana, 27 de enero de 1948.
[SEAL]

ASUNTOS NAVALES

LA HABANA, Enero 21 de 1948.

SR. SUBSECRETARIO DE ESTADO , Ministerio de Estado , Ciudad.
No. 1354

"URGENTE"

SEÑOR: El Comodoro Jefe de Estado Mayor General de la Marina de
Guerra, en escrito de fecha 19 del actual, dice a este Centro lo siguiente:

""Tengo el honor de acusar recibo a su comunicación urgente de fecha 15 del actual, registro de salida número 798 , y en relación con su contenido, tengo a bien informarle que este Estado Mayor General encuentra aceptable en todas sus partes el proyecto con las condiciones establecidas en el Memorándum-Convenio anexo a la Nota No. 561 de 1947 , de la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de

62 STAT. ]

CUBA- WEATHER STATIONS- Aug. 21, 1947 Jan. 27, 1948

3137

Norteamérica en Cuba, sobre la continuación del funcionamiento de la estación de radiosonda de La Habana, de acuerdo con el anterior Convenio del año 1944, así como para la situación de análogo servicio en la ciudad de Camagüey, recomendándose, por tanto, se le haga saber al Sr. Subsecretario de Estado , a los efectos de los trámites necesarios para que dicho Convenio entre en vigor con la brevedad solicitada" " .
Lo que me complazco en transcribir a usted , en relación con su atento escrito de fecha 10 del actual, Registro de Salida número 494 , de carácter urgente, para su conocimiento y efectos procedentes.
De usted atentamente, SMV.
SALVADOR MENÉNDEZ VILLOCH, M. N. y M. Ministro de Defensa Nacional.

REPUBLIC OF CUBA MINISTRY OF STATE 200

Translation

The Ministry of State presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and, with reference to previous correspondence concerning the Embassy's courteous note verbale No. 816 of December 17 last, [ ] referring to a Memorandum-Agreement on the establishment of radiosonde meteorological stations, has the honor to transmit herewith a copy of communication No. 1354 of the 21st instant from the Minister of National Defense , containing the text of a written statement of the Commodore Chief of the General Staff of the Navy concerning the matter .
The Ministry of State renews to the Embassy of the United States of America the assurance of its highest consideration .
Habana, January 27, 1948.
[SEAL ]

NAVAL AFFAIRS

HABANA, January 21, 1948

THE UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE,
Ministry of State, City.
No. 1354

"URGENT"

SIR:

The Commodore Chief of the General Staff of the Navy, in a written communication dated the 19th instant, informs this Office as follows:

"I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your urgent communication dated the 15th instant, outgoing file number 798 , and, with reference to its contents, I am happy to inform you that the General Staff considers acceptable in all respects the project and the conditions laid down in the Memorandum-Agreement annexed to Note No. 561
1 Not printed.

Ante, p. 3134.

3138

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

of 1947 of the Embassy of the United States of America in Cuba, with regard to continuing operation of the radiosonde station of Habana, p.641084S,tat . , Pt . 4 , in accordance with the preceding Agreement of the year 1944, as well as for the location of a similar service in the city of Camagüey, and
it is therefore recommended that the Under Secretary of State be informed thereof in order that the necessary steps may be taken, to the end that the said Agreement may enter into force at the early date requested ."

I take pleasure in giving you the text of the foregoing with reference

to your courteous communication of the 10th instant, outgoing file

number 494 , urgent , for your information and further action .

Very truly yours,

S.M.V.

SALVADOR MENÉNDEZ VILLOCH, M. N. Y M. Minister of National Defense.

62 STAT. ] CHINA- RURAL RECONSTRUCTION- AUG. 5, 1948

3139

Agreement between the United States of America and China respecting a Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China. Effected by
exchange of notes signed at Nanking August 5, 1948; entered into force August 5, 1948.

August 5, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1848]

Note in the English and Chinese Languages From the American Ambassador to the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY,

EXCELLENCY!

Nanking, August 5, 1948

Joint Commission I have the honor to refer to Section 407 of the China Aid Act of on Rural Reconstruc-

1948 enacted by the Government of the United States of America tio62n SitnaCth.,iPnta..1, p. 159. (hereinafter referred to as the Act) , which provides, among other

things , for the conclusion of an agreement between China and the United States of America establishing a Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China. In pursuance of the general principles laid

down in the Act, and in particular Section 407 thereof, I have the honor to bring forward the following proposals regarding the organization of the Joint Commission and related matters:
(1) There shall be established a Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) , to be composed of two citizens of the United States of America

Establishment.

appointed by the President of the United States of America and three citizens of the Republic of China to be appointed by the President of China . The Commission shall elect one of the Chinese members as Chairman.
Functions and au (2) The functions and authority of the Commission shall, subject thority
to the provisions of the above-mentioned Section of the Act , be as follows:
Formulation of Pro(a) To formulate and carry out through appropriate Chinese gram , etc.
Government agencies, and international or private agencies in China a coordinated program for reconstruction in rural areas of China (hereinafter referred to as the Program) ;

(b) To conclude arrangements with the agencies referred to in the preceding paragraph establishing a basis for their cooperation ;

(c) To recommend to the Governments of the United States

of America and of China, within the limits prescribed by the Act, the allocation of funds and other assistance to the Program, and to recommend to the Government of China the allocation of such other funds and assistance as are deemed essential to the success of the Program ;

3140

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT,

(d) To establish standards of performance for implementation of the Program , including the qualifications , type and number of personnel to be used by cooperating agencies in the Program, and to maintain a constant supervision of all phases of the Program , with authority to recommend changes in or stoppage of any phase of the Program ;

(e) To appoint such executive officers and administrative

5

staff as the Commission deems necessary to carry out the

Program, it being understood that the chief executive officer shall be a citizen of China . Salaries, expenses of

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 159.

travel and other expenses incident to the administrative functions of the Commission itself shall be paid from funds made available under Section 407 (b) of the Act.

Program activities.

(3) In its Program the Commission may include the following types of activity to be carried out in agreement with the agencies referred to in paragraph (2) (a) ;

(a) A coordinated extension-type program in agriculture , home demonstration, health and education , for initiation in a selected group of hsien in several provinces to include a limited number of subsidiary projects suited to conditions in the areas where the program is developed , in such fields as agricultural production, marketing, credit , irrigation , home and community industries , nutrition , sanitation , and education of a nature which will facilitate the promotion of all projects being undertaken ;
(b) Consultation with the Chinese Government concerning ways and means of progressively carrying out land reform measures ;

(c) Subsidiary projects in research, training and manufacturing , to be carried out in suitable locations to provide information, personnel and materials required by the Program ;
(d) Projects to put into effect over a wider area than provided for in the coordinated extension-type program specified in (a), any of the above lines of activity which can be developed soundly on a larger scale , of which examples might be the multiplication and distribution of improved seeds , the control of rinderpest of cattle, the construction of irrigation and drainage facilities, and the introduction of health and sanitation measures ;

(e) Related measures , in line with the general objectives of this Program ;

(f) The distribution of the assistance in this Program, on the principle of giving due attention to strengthening rural improvement in areas where selected projects can be progressively developed and where their development will contribute most effectively to the achievement of purposes for which this Program is undertaken , but that the principle

62 STAT. ] CHINA- RURAL RECONSTRUCTION-AUG. 5, 1948

3141

of distributing aid will not be controlled by proportionate or geographical consideration per se.

Decisions of the (4) In respect of any decision of the Commission , the approval of Commission.
the Government of China shall be obtained prior to its execu-
tion if the Commission or its Chairman, with the concurrence of
the Chinese members , deems it necessary.
Statements of oper(5) The Commission shall publish in China and transmit to the ations.
Government of the United States of America and the Govern-

ment of China, in such form and at such times as may be re-

quested by either of the two Governments, full statements of

operations , including a statement on the use of funds, supplies and services received , and will transmit to the two Govern-

ments any other matter pertinent to operations as requested by either of the two Governments. The Government of China

will keep the people of China fully informed of the intended purpose and scope of the Program and of the progress achieved

by the Commission in implementing the Program, including the nature and extent of the assistance furnished by the Government of the United States of America .

Commission as part (6) The Government of China will upon appropriate notification of U. S. Embassy.
of the Ambassador of the United States of America in China

consider the United States members and personnel of the

Commission as part of the Embassy of the United States of America in China for the purpose of enjoying the privileges

and immunities accorded to that Embassy and its personnel of comparable rank. It is understood that the Ambassador of

the United States of America in China in making the notification will bear in mind the desirability of restricting, so far as

practicable, the number of officials for whom full diplomatic

privileges and immunities would be requested . It is also understood that the detailed application of this paragraph would, when necessary, be a subject of inter-governmental discussion.

(7) All supplies imported into China for use in the Program shall

Free importation of designated supplies.

be free of Customs duties, Conservancy dues and other charges

imposed by the Government of China on similar supplies which

are imported through regular commercial channels .

(8) The Government of the United States of America and the Consultation.

Government of China will consult with respect to problems

incident to the interpretation , implementation and possible amendment of the terms of the agreement embodied in this

exchange of notes whenever either of the two Governments considers such action appropriate . (9) The Government of the United States of America reserves sisTtearnmcination of as- e. the right at any time to terminate or suspend its assistance, or any part thereof, provided under this exchange of notes.

Assistance furnished by the Government of the United States of America under Section 407 of the Act and pursuant to this 62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 159.

exchange of notes shall not be construed as an express or implied

3142

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Effectivity . Post, p. 3153. 62 Stat., Pt . 1, p. 159. Duration.
Ante, p. 2945.

assumption by the Government of the United States of America of any responsibility for making any further contributions to carry out the purposes of Section 407 of the Act or of this exchange of notes.
( 10) This note and Your Excellency's reply accepting the above proposals on behalf of the Government of China will constitute an agreement between the two Governments in the sense of Section 407 of the Act. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (8 ) and (9 ) , this exchange of notes will remain in force until June 30, 1949 , or, upon the request of either Government transmitted to the other Government at least two months before June 30 , 1949 , until the date of termination of the Economic Aid Agreement between the two Governments concluded on July 3 , 1948 .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
J. LEIGHTON STUART His Excellency
Dr. WANG SHIH- CHIEH,
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nanking.

62 STAT.] CHINA- RURAL RECONSTRUCTION- AUG. 5, 1948

3143



(2) ( )

(          

 

       

   

             

" C

      

 

, :

         

   

     

  :  



       

                



   

            ,     

,  



        



   -



 







      



   

  

  





  

   

    

 





 -

  

         

    





  ,  

 







;





 

 

;  :



,   

 
     









   

 







  

 

  

3144

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

    , ;
         C       ,          
n

(J)

() ()

(F)  

()

               



 



 

    

    



             :   

()         

   

 , 



        



z                  







   

 

     



I



 ,



 



- 

Ei

 

  





     











 ,



  

  

      

 





 









   





 

 





,

  













 
   ,


 
   ;







 





    





    

  
     ()   

62 STAT.] CHINA-RURAL RECONSTRUCTION-AUG. 5, 1948

3145

()



         



() ()

: 



,         



          

   

   



             

     

  

 : 

       



   

  



 



  :  



 ,

           







    

        

   

       









          

  

      ,



   



 

  





       

 ; ;

      

 





     

,







 



     

 



 



 

 







 

 

 

 



 

 

      

 

             















 

    ,   

3146

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

(+)            
 

 





---  







 





  + (i)

 



 

,  



 

 



 
      

     





, 

 :

 :   



        



  









 









 

  



  

  

  

  

 





 

,







  





 





 

       

   

 





 

    

    : 

   

  

 





  









 









   

  



 



    -





 

 , 
  --   

  

 

  

62 STAT. ] CHINA- RURAL RECONSTRUCTION-AUG. 5, 1948

3147

           ^
                
       

 



 

    





 





    

     

  



 -



   

     

3148

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

       :     :             
          ,      
            ,    ..
·

Note in the Chinese and English Languages From the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

 TheMinistry ofForeign Affairs
Republic ofChina

[SEAL 

( )   



() ()

()

  

  



     

  

   ;  

    

 

         :

        



  

         





  

 

 





 · 





  

  

 





        
; 

 ; 

     
 
     


       

  

 

   9 O

 

 









 :









  



   

  -
  
     






62 STAT. ] CHINA-RURAL RECONSTRUCTION- AUG. 5, 1948

3149

      ,     )(  ·
    ,            , 

(J) ()

() 

           

 ,  ;    



(J)

 ;   

  

  



           

   

        ()   



      
(f)       

-         





?

  :  

    





 

     

           

               
    ;    .   
     

            

      ;      

  



  

     

    

    





 

.

      

    

 

 

  

      

         

     





  

 ; 

 



 



  

 ;  

3150

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

()

 ,      ,  



             

(2) (x)  



  

    9





 

 :  

 

 



  

 



,

   

 

 

    
--

 

      

          

  

.

    

           

· 

  

 

 

  ,

    

      









   

   

 

        

:  

   

   

 9 







        





     

 

    

  

      ; 



  





   

  

   

  

      





        





-



9 





 







·h     

 

Z

 

62 STAT.] CHINA- RURAL RECONSTRUCTION-AUG. 5, 1948

3151



  ,         

00

    

         

       ?        

  

 



        

 ,

   -  

  



    

   

 

     

·   



  

     





      









      

    10     - 

      

   9   ()        

 



 





.

  

'- ^ +



   

     





  





 ·   O 

   





  

 

    

 


  

 

  



    

 






  



.

             

  


3152

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

      





 + + 
 
A 
1 Wang Shih-chieh .



111

<

 ,   

           



 

   





        

   --- 





  

 





  





 





 











    

P

62 STAT. ] CHINA- RURAL RECONSTRUCTION-AUG. 5, 1948 

TheMinistryofForeign Affairs

[SEAL]

Republic ofChina

3153

EXCELLENCY :

NANKING, August 5, 1948

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note of today's date which reads as follows:

"I have the honor to refer to Section 407 of the China Aid Act of 1948 enacted by the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter referred to as the Act) , which provides, among other things , for the conclusion of an agreement between China and the United States of America establishing a Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China. In pursuance of the general principles laid down in the Act, and in particular Section 407 thereof, I have the honor to bring forward the following proposals regarding the organization of the Joint Commission and related matters :
(1) There shall be established a Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) , to be composed of two citizens of the United States of America appointed by the President of the United States of America and three citizens of the Republic of China to be appointed by the President of China . The Commission shall elect one of the Chinese members as Chairman .

62 Stat., Pt. 1 , p . 159.

(2) The functions and authority of the Commission shall, subject to the provisions of the above-mentioned Section of the Act, be as follows:

(a) To formulate and carry out through appropriate Chinese Government agencies , and international or private agencies in China a coordinated program for reconstruction in rural areas of China (hereinafter referred to as the Program) ;
(b) To conclude arrangements with the agencies referred to in the preceding paragraph establishing a basis for their cooperation ;
(c) To recommend to the Governments of the United States of America and of China, within the limits prescribed by the Act, the allocation of funds and other assistance to the Program, and to recommend to the Government of China the allocation of such other funds and assistance as are deemed essential to the success of the Program ;
(d) To establish standards of performance for implementation of the Program , including the qualifications, type and number of personnel to be used by cooperating agencies in the Program , and to maintain a constant supervision

3154

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 159;

of all phases of the Program, with authority to recommend changes in or stoppage of any phase of the Program ; (e) To appoint such executive officers and administrative staff as the Commission deems necessary to carry out the Program, it being understood that the chief executive officer shall be a citizen of China. Salaries , expenses of travel and other expenses incident to the administrative functions of the Commission itself shall be paid from funds made available under Section 407 (b) of the Act.
(3 ) In its Program the Commission may include the following types of activity to be carried out in agreement with the agencies referred to in paragraph (2) (a) :
(a) A coordinated extension-type program in agriculture, home demonstration , health and education, for initiation in a selected group of hsien in several provinces to include a limited number of subsidiary projects suited to conditions in the areas where the program is developed , in such fields as agricultural production, marketing , credit , irrigation , home and community industries, nutrition , sanitation, and education of a nature which will facilitate the promotion of all projects being undertaken ;
(b) Consultation with the Chinese Government concerning ways and means of progressively carrying out land reform measures ;
(c) Subsidiary projects in research, training and manufacturing, to be carried out in suitable locations to provide information, personnel and materials required by the Program ;
(d) Projects to put into effect over a wider area than provided for in the coordinated extension-type program specified in (a) , any of the above lines of activity which can be developed soundly on a larger scale, of which examples might be the multiplication and distribution of improved seeds , the control of rinderpest of cattle, the construction of irrigation and drainage facilities, and the introduction of health and sanitation measures ;
(e) Related measures, in line with the general objectives of this Program ;
(f) The distribution of the assistance in this Program, on the principle of giving due attention to strengthening rural improvement in areas where selected projects can be progressively developed and where their development will contribute most effectively to the achievement of purposes for which this Program is undertaken, but that the principle of distributing aid will not be controlled by proportionate or geographical consideration per se.
(4) In respect of any decision of the Commission, the approval of the Government of China shall be obtained prior to its execution

62 STAT. ] CHINA- RURAL RECONSTRUCTION-AUG. 5, 1948

3155

if the Commission or its Chairman , with the concurrence of the Chinese members , deems it necessary.

(5) The Commission shall publish in China and transmit to the Government of the United States of America and the Govern-
ment of China, in such form and at such times as may be requested by either of the two Governments, full statements of operations , including a statement on the use of funds , supplies and services received, and will transmit to the two Governments any other matter pertinent to operations as requested by either of the two Governments. The Government of China will keep the people of China fully informed of the intended purpose and scope of the Program and of the progress achieved by the Commission in implementing the Program , including the nature and extent of the assistance furnished by the Government of the United States of America.

(6 ) The Government of China will upon appropriate notification of the Ambassador of the United States of America in China consider the United States members and personnel of the Commission as part of the Embassy of the United States of America in China for the purpose of enjoying the privileges and immunities accorded to that Embassy and its personnel of comparable rank. It is understood that the Ambassador of the United States of America in China in making the notification will bear in mind the desirability of restricting, so far as practicable, the number of officials for whom full diplomatic privileges and immunities would be requested . It is also understood that the detailed application of this paragraph would, when necessary, be a subject of inter-governmental discussion .
(7) All supplies imported into China for use in the Program shall be free of Customs duties, Conservancy dues and other charges imposed by the Government of China on similar supplies which are imported through regular commercial channels.
(8) The Government of the United States of America and the Government of China will consult with respect to problems incident to the interpretation, implementation and possible amendment of the terms of the agreement embodied in this exchange of notes whenever either of the two Governments considers such action appropriate.

(9) The Government of the United States of America reserves

the right at any time to terminate or suspend its assistance, or any part thereof, provided under this exchange of notes. Assistance furnished by the Government of the United States of America under Section 407 of the Act and pursuant to this exchange of notes shall not be construed as an express or implied assumption by the Government of the United States of America

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 159.

of any responsibility for making any further contributions to carry out the purposes of Section 407 of the Act or of this exchange of notes .
68706 0-51-PT. III- 35

3156

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 159. Ante, p. 2945.

(10) This note and Your Excellency's reply accepting the above proposals on behalf of the Government of China will constitute an agreement between the two Governments in the sense of Section 407 of the Act. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (8) and (9) , this exchange of notes will remain in force until June 30 , 1949 , or , upon the request of either Government transmitted to the other Government at least two months before June 30 , 1949 , until the date of termination of the Economic Aid Agreement between the two Governments concluded on July 3, 1948."

Ante, p. 2945.

On behalf of the Government of China, I have the honor to accept the proposals contained in the note quoted above .
In recognition of the importance of the Program as one of the essential means of achieving the objectives in which the Governments of China and of the United States of America unite in seeking under the Economic Aid Agreement between the two Governments concluded on July 3 , 1948 , the Government of China undertakes to afford to the execution of the Program the full weight of its support and to direct cooperating agencies of the Government of China, including the local officials concerned , to give such assistance and facilities as are essential to the success of their undertakings under the Program .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .

His Excellency J. LEIGHTON STUART, Ambassador of the United States of America to China, Nanking.
1 Wang Shih-chieh .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5 , 1947

3157

Convention, final protocol , regulations, air-mail provisions, and final protocol to the air-mail provisions between the United States of America and other governments respecting a Universal Postal Union , revising the Universal Postal Convention of May 23, 1939. Signed at Paris July 5, 1947; ratified and approved by the Postmaster General of the
United States of America June 1 , 1948; approved by the President of the United States of America June 9, 1948; entered into force July 1, 1948.

July 5, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 1850]

UNION POSTALE UNIVERSELLE
DOCUMENTS DU CONGRÈS DE
PARIS
1947 TEXTE DE LA CONVENTION POSTALE UNIVERSELLE SIGNÉE À PARIS

3158

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

[ 62 STAT .

La présente copie est certifiée conforme à

l'exemplaire unique de la Convention de l'Union Postale Universelle, rédigée en

langue française, signée à Paris le cinq juillet

mil-neuf-cent-quarante-sept et déposée dans

les Archives de la République Française.

e n

n

i

e

a

y

m

a

u

J

J

Le Ministre Plénipotentiaire Chef du Service du Protocole,
JACQUES DUMAINE.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947 UNION POSTALE UNIVERSELLE

3159

DOCUMENTS DU CONGRÈS DE PARIS 1947
TEXTE DE LA CONVENTION POSTALE UNIVERSELLE
SIGNÉE À PARIS

L'acte authentique de cette Convention est conservé au Ministère des Affaires Etrangères de France qui a reconnu la conformité de la présente copie avec cet original.
Note. Les textes imprimés en caractères italiques indiquent les modifications apportées par le Congrès de Paris aux Actes précédents de Buenos Aires 1939.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3161

Table des matières

Pages

Convention .

3166

Protocole final de la Convention

3201

Annexe. Projet d'accord entre les Nations Unies et l'Union postale universelle

3205

Règlement d'exécution de la Convention

3213

Annexe (Formules) au Règlement d'exécution de la Convention

3250

Dispositions concernant le transport de la poste aux lettres par voie aérienne

3281

Protocole final des Dispositions concernant le transport de la poste aux lettres par voie

aérienne

3291

Annexe (Formules) aux Dispositions concernant le transport de la poste aux lettres par

voie aérienne

3292

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3163

Table des articles de la
CONVENTION POSTALE UNIVERSELLE

1. CONVENTION .

TITRE I.

De l'Union postale universelle .
CHAPITRE I
Organisation et ressort de l'Union. Art. 1. Constitution et but de l'Union.
2. Relations avec les Nations Unies. 3. Nouvelles adhésions. Procédure . 4. Convention et Arrangements de l'Union. 5. Règlements d'exécution . 6. Unions restreintes. Arrangements spéciaux . 7. Législation intérieure. 8. Colonies, Protectorats, etc. 9. Application de la Convention aux Colonies, Protectorats, etc. 10. Ressort de l'Union. 11. Relations exceptionnelles. 12. Arbitrages. 13. Sortie de l'Union . Cessation de participation aux Arrangements.

CHAPITRE II.

Art. 14. 15.
16. 17. 18.
19. 20.

Congrès.

Congrès. Conférences. Commissions.

Ratifications. Mise à exécution et durée des Actes des Congrès. Congrès extraordinaires.

Règlement des Congrès.

Commission exécutive et de liaison. Composition. Attributions. Fonctionnement. Conférences .
Commissions .

CHAPITRE III.

Art. 21. 22.
23. 24. 25.

Propositions dans l'intervalle des réunions.
Introduction des propositions. Examen des propositions. Conditions d'approbation . Notification des résolutions. Exécution des résolutions.

CHAPITRE IV .
Du Bureau international. Art. 26. Attributions générales.
27. Dépenses du Bureau international.

(8)

3164

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

TITRE II.

Règles d'ordre général .

Art. 28. 29. 30. 31. 32. 33. 34.

CHAPITRE Liberté de transit. Interdiction de taxes non prévues. Suspension temporaire de services. Monnaie-type. Equivalents. Formules. Langue. Cartes d'identité postales.

UNIQUE.

TITRE III.

Dispositions concernant les correspondances postales .
CHAPITRE I.
Dispositions générales .
Art. 35. Objets de correspondance. 36. Taxes et conditions générales. 37. Affranchissement. 38. Taxe en cas d'absence ou d'insuffisance d'affranchissement . 39. Surtaxes. 40. Taxes spéciales. 41. Objets passibles de droits de douane. 42. Contrôle douanier. 43. Droit de dédouanement. 44. Droits de douane et autres droits non postaux. 45. Envois francs de droits. 46. Annulation des droits de douane et autres droits non postaux. 47. Envois exprès. 48. Envois à remettre en main propre. 49. Interdictions. 50. Modalités d'affranchissement. 51. Affranchissement des correspondances à bord des navires. 52. Franchise postale. 53. Coupons-réponse internationaux. 54. Retrait. Modification d'adresse.
55. Réexpédition . Rebuts. 56. Réclamations et demandes de renseignements.

CHAPITRE II.

Art. 57. Taxes.

Envois recommandés.

58. Avis de réception. 59. Etendue de la responsabilité.

60. Exceptions au principe de la responsabilité. 61. Cessation de la responsabilité. 62. Détermination de la responsabilité.

63. Payement de l'indemnité. 64. Délai de payement de l'indemnité. 65. Remboursement de l'indemnité à l'Administration expéditrice.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION--JULY 5, 1947

3165

CHAPITRE III.

Attribution des taxes. Frais de transit.

Art. 66. 67. 68. 69. 70. 71.

Attribution des taxes. Frais de transit. Exemption de frais de transit. Services extraordinaires. Payements et décomptes. Echange de dépêches closes avec des bâtiments de guerre .

Dispositions diverses. Art. 72. Inobservation de la liberté de transit.
73. Engagements relatifs aux mesures pénales.

Dispositions finales . Art. 74. Mise à exécution et durée de la Convention.

2. PROTOCOLE FINAL DE LA CONVENTION.
I. Retrait. Modification d'adresse. II. Equivalents. Limites maxima et minima. III. Exception à l'application du tarif des papiers d'affaires, des imprimés et des échantillons de
marchandises. IV. Once avoirdupois . V. Dépôt de correspondances à l'étranger. VI. Coupons-réponse internationaux. VII. Droit de recommandation. VIII. Services aériens. IX. Exception à la liberté du transit des petits paquets: X. Frais spéciaux de transit par le Transsibérien et le Transandin. XI. Conditions spéciales de transit pour l'Afghanistan. XII. Frais d'entrepôt spéciaux à Aden. XIII. Frais spéciaux de transbordement. XIV. Protocole laissé ouvert aux Pays non représentés. XV. Protocole laissé ouvert aux Pays représentés pour signatures et adhésions. XVI. Délai pour la notification des adhésions. XVII. Protocole laissé ouvert aux Pays momentanément empêchés d'adhérer à la Convention et aux
Arrangements.

3166

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

C

CONVENTION POSTALE UNIVERSELLE
CONCLUE ENTRE
L'AFGHANISTAN, L'UNION DE L'AFRIQUE DU SUD, LA RÉPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE D'ALBANIE, L'ALLEMAGNE, LES ÉTATS-UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE, L'ENSEMBLE DES
POSSESSIONS DES ÉTATS-UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE, LE ROYAUME DE L'ARABIE SAOUDITE, LA RÉPUBLIQUE ARGENTINE, LE COMMONWEALTH DE L'AUSTRALIE, L'AUTRICHE,
LA BELGIQUE, LA COLONIE DU CONGO BELGE, LA RÉPUBLIQUE SOVIÉTIQUE SOCIALISTE De biélorussIE, LA BOLIVIE, LE BRÉSIL, LA RÉPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE
DE BULGARIE, LE CANADA, LE CHILI, LA CHINE, LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE COLOMBIE, LA CORÉE, LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE COSTA-RICA, LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE CUBA,
LE DANEMARK, LA RÉPUBLIQUE DOMINICAINE, L'ÉGYPTE, LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE EL SALVADOR, L'ÉQUATEUR, L'ESPAGNE, L'ENSEMBLE DES COLONIES ESPAGNOLES, L'ÉTHIOPIE, LA FINLANDE, LA FRANCE , L'ALGÉRIE, L'INDOCHINE, L'ENSEMBLE DES
AUTRES TERRITOIRES D'OUTRE-MER DE LA RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE et des TERRITOIRES ADMINISTRÉS COMME TELS, LE ROYAUME-UNI DE LA
GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET DE L'IRLANDE DU NORD, L'ENSEMBLE DES TERRITOIRES BRITANNIQUES D'OUTRE-MER, Y COMPRIS LES COLONIES, LES PROTECTORATS ET
LES TERRITOIRES SOUS MANDAT OU SOUS TUTELLE EXERCÉ PAR LE GOUVERNEMENT DU ROYAUME-UNI DE LA GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET DE L'IRLANDE DU NORD, LA GRÈCE, LE GUATEMALA, LA RÉPUBLIQUE D'HAÏTI, LA RÉPUBLIQUE DU
HONDURAS , LA HONGRIE, L'INDE, L'IRAN, L'IRAQ, L'IRLANDE , LA RÉPUBLIQUE D'ISLANDE, L'ITALIE, LE JAPON, LE LIBAN, LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE LIBÉRIA,
LE LUXEMBOURG , LE MAROC (À L'EXCLUSION DE LA ZONE ESPAGNOLE), LE MAROC (ZONE ESPAGNOLE), LE MEXIQUE, LE NICARAGUA, LA NORVÈGE,
LA NOUVELLE-ZÉLANDE, LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE PANAMA, LE PARAGUAY, LES PAYS-BAS, CURAÇAO ET SURINAM, LES INDES NÉERLANDAISES, LE PÉROU, LA RÉPUBLIQUE
DES PHILIPPINES, LA POLOGNE, LE PORTUGAL, LES COLONIES PORTUGAISES DE L'AFRIQUE OCCIDENTALE, LES COLONIES PORTUGAISES DE L'AFRIQUE ORIENTALE,
DE L'ASIE ET DE L'OCÉANIE, LA ROUMANIE, LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE SAINT-MARIN, LE SIAM, LA SUÈDE, LA CONFÉDÉRATION SUISSE, LA SYRIE,
LA TCHÉCOSLOVAQUIE, LE ROYAUME HACHÉMITE DE TRANSJORDANIE, LA TUNISIE, LA TURQUIE, LA RÉPUBLIQUE SOVIÉTIQUE socialiste D'UKRAINE, L'UNION DES
RÉPUBLIQUES SOVIÉTIQUES SOCIALISTES, LA RÉPUBLIQUE ORIENTALE DE L'URUGUAY, L'ÉTAT DE LA CITÉ DU VATICAN, LES ÉTATS-UNIS DE VÉNÉZUÉLA,
L'YÉMEN ET LA RÉPUBLIQUE FÉDÉRATIVE POPULAIRE DE YOUGOSLAVIE.
Les soussignés, Plénipotentiaires des Gouvernements des Pays ci-dessus énumérés, s'étant réunis en Congrès à Paris, en vertu de l'article 13 de la Convention postale universelle conclue à Buenos Aires le 23 mai 1939, ont, d'un commun accord et sous réserve de ratification, revisé ladite Convention conformément aux dispositions suivantes :

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3167

-

TITRE I.
De l'Union postale universelle .
CHAPITRE I.
Organisation et ressort de l'Union.
ARTICLE PREMIER.
Constitution et but de l'Union.
1. Les Pays entre lesquels est conclue la présente Convention forment, sous la dénomination d'Union postale universelle, un seul territoire postal pour l'échange réciproque des correspondances.
2. L'Union a pour but d'assurer l'organisation et le perfectionnement des divers services postaux et de favoriser, dans ce domaine, le développement de la collaboration internationale.
ARTICLE 2. Relations avec les Nations Unies. L'Union est mise en relation avec les Nations Unies suivant les termes de l'accord dont le texte est annexé à la présente Convention.
ARTICLE 3.
Nouvelles adhésions . Procédure. 1. Tout Pays souverain peut demander à adhérer en tout temps à la Convention. 2. La demande d'adhésion est adressée par la voie diplomatique au Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse, et par ce dernier aux membres de l'Union. 3. -Le Pays intéressé est considéré comme admis en qualité de membre si sa demande est approuvée par les deux tiers au moins des Pays qui composent l'Union. 4. --- Les Pays consultés qui n'auraient pas répondu dans le délai de quatre mois sont considérés comme s'étant abstenus. 5. L'admission en qualité de membre est notifiée par le Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse aur Gouvernements de tous les Pays de l'Union.
ARTICLE 4.
Convention et Arrangements de l'Union . 1. Le service de la poste aux lettres est réglé par les dispositions de la Convention. 2. - D'autres services, tels que ceux des lettres et des boîtes avec valeur déclarée, des colis postaux, des envois contre remboursement, des mandats de poste, des virements postaux, des recouvrements et des abonnements aux journaux et écrits périodiques, font l'objet d'Arrangements entre Pays de l'Union. Ces Arrangements ne sont obligatoires que pour les Pays qui y ont adhéré. 3. - L'adhésion à un ou plusieurs de ces Arrangements est notifiée selon les dispositions de l'article 3, § 2.
ARTICLE 5.
Règlements d'exécution.
Les Administrations postales des Pays de l'Union arrêtent d'un commun accord, dans des Règlements d'exécution, les mesures d'ordre et de détail nécessaires à l'exécution de la Convention et des Arrangements .

3168

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 6.
Unions restreintes . Arrangements spéciaux. 1. Les Pays de l'Union et, pour autant que leur législation ne s'y oppose pas , les Administrations, peuvent établir des Unions restreintes et prendre entre eux des arrangements spéciaux concernant les objets traités dans la Convention et dans son Règlement, à la condition toutefois de ne pas y introduire des dispositions moins favorables, pour le public, que celles qui sont prévues par ces Actes. 2. La même faculté est accordée aux Pays qui participent aux Arrangements et, le cas échéant, à leurs Administrations, en ce qui concerne les objets visés par ces Actes et leurs Règlements .
ARTICLE 7.
Législation intérieure .
Les stipulations de la Convention et des Arrangements de l'Union ne portent pas atteinte à la législation de chaque Pays dans tout ce qui n'est pas expressément prévu par ces Actes.
ARTICLE 8 .
Colonies, Protectorats, etc.
Sont considérés comme formant un seul Pays ou une seule Administration de l'Union, suivant le cas, au sens de la Convention et des Arrangements en ce qui concerne, notamment, leur droit de vote aux Congrès, aux Conférences et dans l'intervalle entre les réunions ainsi que leur contribution aux dépenses du Bureau international de l'Union postale universelle :
1º l'Ensemble des Possessions des Etats-Unis d'Amérique comprenant Hawaï, Porto-Rico, Guam et les Iles Vierges des Etats-Unis d'Amérique ;
2º la Colonie du Congo belge; 3º l'Ensemble des Colonies espagnoles ; 4º l'Algérie; 5º l'Indochine; 6º l'Ensemble des autres Territoires d'Outre-mer de la République française et des Territoires admi-
nistrés comme tels; 7° l'Ensemble des Territoires britanniques d'Outre-mer, y compris les Colonies, les Protectorats et
les Territoires sous mandat ou sous tutelle exercé par le Gouvernement du Royaume- Uni de la Grande-Bretagne et de l'Irlande du Nord; 80 Curaçao et Surinam ; 90 les Indes néerlandaises; 10% les Colonies portugaises de l'Afrique occidentale ; 11º les Colonies portugaises de l'Afrique orientale, de l'Asie et de l'Océanie.
ARTICLE 9.
Application de la Convention aux Colonies, Protectorats, etc. 1. - Toute Partie contractante peut déclarer, soit au moment de sa signature, de sa ratification ou de son adhésion, soit ultérieurement, que l'acceptation par elle de la présente Convention comprend toutes ses Colonies, tous ses Territoires d'outre-mer, Protectorats ou Territoires sous suzeraineté ou sous mandat ou certains d'entre eux seulement. Ladite déclaration, à moins qu'elle ne soit faite au moment de la signature de la Convention, devra être adressée au Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse. 2. La Convention ne s'appliquera qu'aux Colonies, Territoires d'outre-mer, Protectorats ou Territoires sous suzeraineté ou sous mandat au nom desquels des déclarations auront été faites en vertu du § 1.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3169

3. Toute Partie contractante peut en tout temps adresser au Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse une notification en vue de dénoncer l'application de la Convention à toute Colonie , tout Territoire d'outre-mer, Protectorat ou Territoire sous suzeraineté ou sous mandat au nom duquel cette Partie a fait une déclaration en vertu du § 1. Cette notification produira ses effets un an après la date de sa réception par le Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse.
4. Le Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse communiquera à toutes les Parties contractantes copie de chaque déclaration ou notification reçue en vertu des §§ 1 à 3.
5. Les dispositions du présent article ne s'appliquent à aucune Colonie, aucun Territoire d'outre-mer, aucun Protectorat ou Territoire sous suzeraineté ou sous mandat qui figure dans le préambule de la Convention.
ARTICLE 10.
Ressort de l'Union.
Sont considérés comme appartenant à l'Union postale universelle : a) les bureaux de poste établis par des Pays de l'Union dans des territoires non compris dans
l'Union ; b) les autres territoires qui, sans être membres de l'Union, sont compris dans celle-ci parce qu'ils
relèvent, au point de vue postal, de Pays de l'Union ¹).
ARTICLE 11.
Relations exceptionnelles .
Les Administrations qui desservent des territoires non compris dans l'Union sont tenues d'être les intermédiaires des autres Administrations. Les dispositions de la Convention et de son Réglement sont applicables à ces relations exceptionnelles.
ARTICLE 12.
Arbitrages .
1. En cas de dissentiment entre deux ou plusieurs membres de l'Union relativement à l'interprétation de la Convention et des Arrangements ainsi que de leurs Règlements d'exécution ou de la responsabilité dérivant, pour une Administration, de l'application de ces Actes, la question en litige est réglée par jugement arbitral. A cet effet, chacune des Administrations en cause choisit un autre membre de l'Union qui n'est pas directement intéressé dans l'affaire.
2. Au cas où l'une des Administrations en désaccord ne donne pas suite à une proposition d'arbitrage dans le délai de six mois, ou de neuf mois pour les Pays éloignés, le Bureau international, si la demande lui en est faite, provoque à son tour la désignation d'un arbitre par l'Administration défaillante ou en désigne un lui-même, d'office.
3. La décision des arbitres est donnée à la majorité absolue des voix. 4. En cas de partage des voix, les arbitres choisissent, pour trancher le différend, une autre Administration également désintéressée dans le litige. A défaut d'une entente sur le choix, cette Administration est désignée par le Bureau international parmi les membres de l'Union non proposés par les arbitres. 5. S'il s'agit d'un différend concernant l'un des Arrangements, les arbitres ne peuvent être désignés en dehors des Administrations qui exécutent cet Arrangement.
ARTICLE 13.
Sortie de l'Union. Cessation de participation aux Arrangements .
Chaque Partie contractante a la faculté de se retirer de l'Union ou de cesser sa participation à l'un ou plusieurs des Arrangements moyennant avertissement donné un an à l'avance par voie diplomatique au Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse et par celui-ci aux Gouvernements des Pays contractants .
¹) La liste de ces territoires sera insérée dans le Recueil officiel des renseignements d'intérêt général concernant l'exécution de la Convention et de son Règlement, publié par le Bureau international en exécution de l'article 173, § 2, du Règlement.

3170

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

CHAPITRE II.
Congrès. Conférences. Commissions.
ARTICLE 14.
Congrès.
1. Les délégués des Pays de l'Union se réunissent en Congrès au plus tard cinq ans après la date de mise à exécution des Actes du Congrès précédent, en vue de soumettre ces Actes à revision ou de les compléter, s'il y a lieu.
2. Chaque Pays se fait représenter au Congrès par un ou plusieurs délégués plénipotentiaires munis, par leur Gouvernement, des pouvoirs nécessaires. Il peut, au besoin, se faire représenter par la délégation d'un autre Pays. Toutefois, il est entendu qu'une délégation ne peut représenter qu'un seul Pays autre que le sien.
3. Dans les délibérations, chaque Pays dispose d'une seule voix . 4. Chaque Congrès fixe le lieu de réunion du Congrès suivant. Celui-ci est convoqué par les soins du Gouvernement du Pays dans lequel il doit avoir lieu, après entente avec le Bureau international. Ce Gouvernement est également chargé de la notification à tous les Gouvernements des Pays de l'Union des décisions prises par le Congrès.
ARTICLE 15.
Ratifications. Mise à exécution et durée des Actes des Congrès.
1.- Les Actes des Congrès sont ratifiés aussitôt que possible et les ratifications sont communiquées au Gouvernement du Pays, siège du Congrès, et par ce Gouvernement aux Gouvernements des Pays contractants.
2. - Dans le cas où une ou plusieurs des Parties contractantes ne ratifieraient pas l'un ou l'autre des Actes signés par elles, ceux-ci n'en seraient pas moins valables pour les Etats qui les auront ratifiés .
3. Ces Actes sont mis à exécution simultanément et ont la même durée. 4. Dès le jour fixé pour la mise à exécution des Actes adoptés par un Congrès, tous les Actes du Congrès précédent sont abrogés.
ARTICLE 16.
Congrès extraordinaires.
1. Lorsque la demande en est faite ou approuvée par les deux tiers au moins des Pays contractants, un Congrès extraordinaire est réuni après entente avec le Bureau international.
2. Les règles édictées aux articles 14 et 15 sont applicables aux délégations, aux délibérations et aux Actes des Congrès extraordinaires.
ARTICLE 17.
Règlement des Congrès .
Chaque Congrès arrête le règlement nécessaire à ses travaux et à ses délibérations .
ARTICLE 18.
Commission exécutive et de liaison . Composition. Attributions. Fonctionnement. 1. Dans l'intervalle des Congrès, une Commission exécutive et de liaison assure la continuité des travaux de l'Union postale universelle conformément aux dispositions de la Convention et des Arrangements. 2. Le siège de la Commission est à Berne; en principe, les réunions se tiennent au siège de la Commission.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3171

3. La Commission se compose de dix-neuf membres qui exercent leurs fonctions durant la période qui sépare deux Congrès successifs.
4. Les Pays membres de la Commission sont nommés par le Congrès. La moitié au moins des membres devra être renouvelée à l'occasion de chaque Congrès; aucun Pays ne peut être choisi successivement par trois Congrès. Le Directeur du Bureau international exerce les fonctions de Secrétaire général de la Commission.
5. Le représentant de chacun des Pays membres de la Commission est désigné par l'Administration des postes du Pays intéressé. Les représentants des Pays membres de la Commission doivent être des fonctionnaires qualifiés de l'Administration des postes.
6. Dans sa première réunion, qui est convoquée par le Président du dernier Congrès, la Commission élit, parmi ses membres, un Président et quatre Vice-Présidents et arrête le Règlement nécessaire à ses travaux et à ses délibérations.
7. Les fonctions des membres de la Commission sont gratuites. Les frais de fonctionnement de la Commission sont à la charge de l'Union postale universelle. Les représentants des Pays d'outre-mer peuvent obtenir le remboursement d'un billet de voyage aller et retour par air ou par mer.
8. Les dépenses prévues au § 7 ne peuvent dépasser 100 000 francs par an; elles s'ajoutent à celles que le Bureau international est autorisé à engager en vertu de l'article 27 de la Convention.
9. La Commission se réunit en session régulière, en principe une fois par an sur convocation du Président.
10. La Commission peut inviter à participer, sans droit de vote, à ses réunions, tout représentant d'un organisme international ou toute autre personne qualifiée qu'elle désire associer à ses travaux. Des Sous-Commissions consultatives peuvent être constituées pour l'étude de questions spéciales.
11. Les attributions de la Commission sont les suivantes:
a) maintenir les contacts les plus étroits avec les Pays membres de l'Union en vue de perfectionner le service postal international;
b) étudier les questions techniques de toute nature intéressant le service postal international et communiquer le résultat de ces études aux Pays membres de l'Union;
c) prendre les contacts utiles avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies, ses Conseils et ses Commissions ainsi qu'avec les Institutions spécialisées et autres Organismes internationaux pour les études et la préparation des rapports à soumettre à l'approbation des membres de l'Union . Envoyer, le cas échéant, un de ses membres pour représenter l'Union et participer au nom de celle-ci aux séances de tous ces organismes internationaux;
d) formuler s'il y a lieu des propositions qui seront soumises à l'approbation des Pays contractants selon les dispositions des articles 22 et 23 de la Convention;
e) dans le cadre de la Convention et de son Règlement, assurer le contrôle de l'activité du Bureau international dont elle nomme, le cas échéant, et sur proposition du Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse, le Directeur ainsi que le reste du personnel hors classe; approuver, sur la proposition du Directeur du Bureau, les nominations des autres agents et autoriser l'utilisation du personnel supplémentaire jugé nécessaire; établir, sur la gestion du Bureau, un rapport annuel qu'elle communique aux membres de l'Union. 12. La Commission adresse, pour information, à l'Administration des postes de tous les Pays de
l'Union, un compte rendu analytique à l'issue de chaque session de la Commission, 13. La Commission fait au Congrès un rapport sur l'ensemble de son activité et le transmet aux
Pays contractants au moins deux mois avant l'ouverture du Congrès.
ARTICLE 19.
Conférences.
1. Des Conférences chargées de l'examen de questions purement administratives peuvent être réunies à la demande ou avec l'assentiment des deux tiers au moins des Administrations de l'Union. Elles sont convoquées après entente avec le Bureau international.
2. Chaque Conférence arrête son règlement.
68706 0-51- PT. III- -36

3172

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 20.
Commissions .
Les Commissions chargées par un Congrès ou une Conférence de l'étude d'une ou de plusieurs questions déterminées sont convoquées par le Bureau international après entente, le cas échéant, avec l'Administration du Pays où ces Commissions doivent se réunir.
CHAPITRE III.
Propositions dans l'intervalle des réunions.
ARTICLE 21.
Introduction des propositions. 1.- Dans l'intervalle des réunions, toute Administration a le droit d'adresser aux autres Administrations, par l'intermédiaire du Bureau international, des propositions concernant la Convention, son Protocole final et son Règlement. 2. Le même droit est accordé aux Administrations des Pays participant aux Arrangements en ce qui concerne ces Arrangements, leurs Règlements et leurs Protocoles finals. 3.- Pour être mises en délibération, toutes les propositions introduites par une Administration dans l'intervalle des réunions doivent être appuyées par au moins deux autres Administrations. Ces propositions restent sans suite lorsque le Bureau international ne reçoit pas, en même temps, le nombre nécessaire de déclarations d'appui.
ARTICLE 22.
Examen des propositions. 1. - Toute proposition est soumise à la procédure suivante : Un délai de deux mois est laissé aux Administrations pour examiner la proposition et, le cas échéant, pour faire parvenir leurs observations au Bureau international. Les amendements ne sont pas admis. Les réponses sont réunies par les soins du Bureau international et communiquées aux Administrations avec invitation de se prononcer pour ou contre. Celles qui n'ont pas fait parvenir leur vote dans un délai de deux mois sont considérées comme s'abstenant. Les délais précités comptent à partir de la date des circulaires du Bureau international. 2. Si la proposition concerne un Arrangement, son Règlement ou leurs Protocoles finals, seules les Administrations ayant adhéré à cet Arrangement peuvent prendre part aux opérations indiquées au § 1.
ARTICLE 23.
Conditions d'approbation.
1. Pour devenir exécutoires, les propositions doivent réunir : a) L'unanimité des suffrages, s'il s'agit de l'addition de nouvelles dispositions ou de la modification
des dispositions des Titres I et II et des articles 35 à 39, 57 à 63, 65 à 74 de la Convention, de tous les articles de son Protocole final et des articles 101 , 105, 117, 152, 163 et 184 de son Réglement ; b) Les deux tiers des suffrages, s'il s'agit de la modification des dispositions autres que celles qui sont mentionnées sous lettre a) ; c) La majorité absolue, s'il s'agit de l'interprétation des dispositions de la Convention, de son Protocole final et de son Règlement, hors le cas de dissentiment à soumettre à l'arbitrage prévu à l'article 12. 2. Les Arrangements fixent les conditions auxquelles est subordonnée l'approbation des propositions qui les concernent.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3173

ARTICLE 24.
Notification des résolutions.
1. Les additions et les modifications apportées à la Convention, aux Arrangements et aux Protocoles finals de ces Actes sont consacrées par une déclaration diplomatique que le Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse est chargé d'établir et de transmettre, à la demande du Bureau international, aux Gouvernements des Pays contractants.
2. - Les additions et les modifications apportées aux Règlements et à leurs Protocoles finals sont constatées et notifiées aux Administrations par le Bureau international. Il en est de même des interprétations visées à l'article 23, § 1 , lettre c) .
ARTICLE 25.
Exécution des résolutions.
Toute addition ou modification adoptée n'est exécutoire que trois mois, au moins, après sa notification .

CHAPITRE IV. Du Bureau international.

ARTICLE 26.

Attributions générales.
1. Un Office central, fonctionnant à Berne sous la dénomination de Bureau international de l'Union postale universelle, et placé sous la haute surveillance de l'Administration des postes suisses, sert d'organe de liaison, d'information et de consultation aux Pays de l'Union .
2. Ce Bureau est chargé, notamment, de réunir, de coordonner, de publier et de distribuer les renseignements de toute nature qui intéressent le service international des postes ; d'émettre, à la demande des Parties en cause, un avis sur les questions litigieuses ; d'instruire les demandes en modification des Actes du Congrès ; de notifier les changements adoptés et, en général, de procéder aux études et aux travaux de rédaction ou de documentation que la Convention , les Arrangements et leurs Règlements lui attribuent ou dont il serait saisi dans l'intérêt de l'Union.
3. Il intervient, à titre d'office de compensation, dans la liquidation des comptes de toute nature relatifs au service international des postes, entre les Administrations qui réclament cette intervention .
ARTICLE 27.

Dépenses du Bureau international .

Chaque Congrès arrête le chiffre maximum que peuvent atteindre annuellement les dépenses ordinaires du Bureau international. Ces dépenses, ainsi que les frais extraordinaires auxquels
donne lieu la réunion d'un Congrès, d'une Conférence ou d'une Commission, et les frais que pourraient
entraîner des travaux spéciaux confiés à ce Bureau sont supportés en commun par tous les Pays de l'Union.

2. Ceux-ci sont divisés, à cet effet, en 7 classes, dont chacune contribue au payement des dépenses dans la proportion ci-après :

1re classe, 25 unités

2e

20 >>

3e

15

4e

10

5e classe, 5 unités

6e

3

a

«

70 > 1 unité .

3. En cas d'adhésion nouvelle, le Gouvernement de la Confédération Suisse détermine, d'un commun accord avec le Gouvernement du Pays intéressé, la classe dans laquelle celui-ci doit être rangé au point de vue de la répartition des frais du Bureau international.

3174

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

TITRE II.
Règles d'ordre général .
CHAPITRE UNIQUE.
ARTICLE 28. Liberté de transit. 1 . La liberté de transit est garantie dans le territoire entier de l'Union. 2. La liberté du transit des colis postaux à acheminer par les voies terrestres et maritimes est limitée au territoire des Pays participant à ce service. 3. - La liberté du transit des colis-avion est garantie dans le territoire entier de l'Union . Toutefois, les Administrations qui n'ont pas adhéré à l'Arrangement concernant les colis postaux ne peuvent être obligées de participer à l'acheminement, par les voies terrestres et maritimes, des colisavion . 4. Les Administrations qui ont adhéré à l'Arrangement concernant les colis postaux sont tenues d'assurer le transit des colis contre remboursement, même si elles n'admettent pas ces envois dans leur service ou si le montant du remboursement dépasse le maximum fixé pour leur propre trafic¹). 5. Les envois avec valeur déclarée peuvent transiter en dépêches closes par le territoire des Pays qui n'assurent pas le service des envois de l'espèce ou par des services maritimes pour lesquels la responsabilité des valeurs n'est pas acceptée par les Pays, mais la responsabilité de ces Pays est limitée à celle qui est prévue pour les envois recommandés.
ARTICLE 29. Interdiction de taxes non prévues. Il est interdit de percevoir des taxes postales, de quelque nature que ce soit, autres que celles qui sont prévues par la Convention et les Arrangements.
ARTICLE 30.
Suspension temporaire de services . Lorsque, par suite de circonstances extraordinaires, une Administration se voit obligée de suspendre temporairement et d'une manière générale ou partielle l'exécution de services, elle est tenue d'en donner immédiatement avis, au besoin par télégraphe, à l'Administration ou aux Administrations intéressées.
ARTICLE 31. Monnaie -type . Le franc pris comme unité monétaire dans les dispositions de la Convention et des Arrangements est le franc-or à 100 centimes d'un poids de 10/31e de gramme et d'un titre de 0,900.
ARTICLE 32. Equivalents . Dans chaque Pays de l'Union , les taxes sont établies d'après une équivalence correspondant aussi exactement que possible, dans la monnaie de ce Pays, à la valeur du franc. 1) Transfert du § 7 de l'article 29 de l'Arrangement de Buenos Aires concernant les colis postaux,

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3175

ARTICLE 33.
Formules. Langue.
1. - Les formules à l'usage des Administrations pour leurs relations réciproques doivent être rédigées en langue française, avec ou sans traduction interlinéaire dans une autre langue, à moins que les Administrations intéressées n'en disposent autrement par une entente directe.
2. Les formules à l'usage du public doivent comporter une traduction interlinéaire en langue française, lorsqu'elles ne sont pas imprimées en cette langue.
3. - Les textes, couleurs et dimensions des formules dont il est question aux §§ 1 et 2 doivent être ceux que prescrivent les Règlements de la Convention et des Arrangements.
4. - Les Administrations peuvent s'entendre au sujet de la langue à employer pour la correspondance de service dans leurs relations réciproques .
ARTICLE 34.
Cartes d'identité postales.
1. Chaque Administration peut délivrer, aux personnes qui en font la demande, des cartes d'identité postales valables comme pièces justificatives pour toutes les transactions effectuées par les bureaux de poste des Pays qui n'auraient pas notifié leur refus de les admettre.
2. - L'Administration qui fait délivrer une carte est autorisée à percevoir, de ce chef, une taxe qui ne peut être supérieure à 70 centimes.
3. Les Administrations sont dégagées de toute responsabilité lorsqu'il est établi que la livraison d'un envoi postal ou le payement d'un mandat a eu lieu sur la présentation d'une carte régulière. Elles ne sont pas, non plus, responsables des conséquences que peuvent entraîner la perte, la soustraction ou l'emploi frauduleux d'une carte régulière.
4. - La carte est valable pendant trois ans à partir du jour de son émission .

TITRE III.
Dispositions concernant les correspondances postales.
CHAPITRE I.
Dispositions générales. ARTICLE 35.
Objets de correspondance . La dénomination d'objets de correspondance s'applique aux lettres, aux cartes postales simples et avec réponse payée, aux papiers d'affaires, aux imprimés, aux impressions en relief à l'usage des aveugles, aux échantillons de marchandises, aux petits paquets et aux envois dits «.Phonopost».
ARTICLE 36. Taxes et conditions générales. 1. Les taxes d'affranchissement pour le transport des objets de correspondance dans toute l'étendue de l'Union, y compris leur remise au domicile des destinataires dans les Pays où le service de distribution est ou sera organisé, ainsi que les limites de poids et de dimensions sont fixées conformément aux indications du tableau ci-après :

3176

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Objets 1

Unités de poids Taxes

2

3

de poids

Limites de dimensions

g

C

Lettres:

1er échelon de poids .

20

par échelon supplémentaire

12

220

Longueur, largeur et épaisseur addi-

tionnées : 90 cm., sans que la plus

grande dimension puisse dépasser

2 kg

60 cm.; en rouleaux : longueur et

deux fois le diamètre: 100 cm. , sans

20
20 118111811

Cartes postales : simples . avec réponse payée
Papiers d'affaires 1er échelon de poids

2210

que la plus grande dimension puisse dépasser 80 cm.

12

Maxima: 15 x 10,5 cm.

24

Minima: 10x7 cm.

50

2 kg

8

par échelon supplémentaire

Minimum de taxe .

20

Imprimés ..

3 kg

1er échelon de poids

8 (5 kg s'il

par échelon supplémentaire

4 s'agit d'un Comme pour les lettres.

Impressions en relief pour les

seul volume)

aveugles

1000 2

7 kg

Les imprimés expédiés à découvert

Echantillons de marchandises 50

500 g

sous forme de cartes pliées ou non

|

1er échelon de poids . .

8

pliées sont soumis aux mêmes limites

par échelon supplémentaire

Petits paquets

50 8

1 kg

Minimum de taxe .

40

minima que les cartes postales.

Envois «Phonopost> :

39

1er échelon de poids .

15 20

par échelon supplémentaire

10

Longueur, largeur et épaisseur addition-

60 g

nées : 60 cm., sans que la plus grande

dimension puisse dépasser 26 cm.

2. Les limites de poids et de dimensions fixées au § 1 ne s'appliquent pas aux correspondances relatives au service postal, dont il est question à l'article 52, § 1 , ci-apres.
3. · Chaque Administration a la faculté de concéder aux journaux et écrits périodiques publiés dans son Pays une réduction de 50 % sur le tarif général des imprimes, tout en se réservant le droit de limiter cette réduction aux journaux et écrits périodiques expédiés directement par les éditeurs ou leurs mandataires ou de ne l'accorder qu'aux journaux et écrits périodiques qui remplissent les conditions requises par la réglementation interne, pour circuler au tarif des journaux. Sont exclus de la réduction, quelle que soit la régularité de leur publication, les imprimés commerciaux tels que catalogues, prospectus, prix courants, etc.
Les Administrations peuvent également concéder la même réduction, quels que soient les expéditeurs, aux livres et brochures, aux papiers de musique et aux cartes géographiques qui ne contiennent aucune publicité ou réclame autre que celle qui figure sur la couverture ou les pages de garde de ces envois.
5. Les Administrations expéditrices qui ont admis en principe la réduction de 50 % se réservent la faculté de fixer, pour les envois visés aux §§ 3 et 4 ci-dessus, un minimum de perception qui, tout en restant dans les limites des 50 % de réduction, ne soit pas inférieur à la taxe applicable aux mêmes objets dans leur service interne.
6. Les envois autres que les lettres recommandées sous enveloppe close ne peuvent renfermer des pièces de monnaie, des billets de banque, des billets de monnaie ou des valeurs quelconques au porteur, du platine, de l'or ou de l'argent, manufacturés ou non, des pierreries, des bijoux et autres objets précieux.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3177

7. Les Administrations des Pays d'origine et de destination ont la faculté de traiter, selon leur législation interne, les lettres qui contiennent des documents ayant le caractère de correspondance actuelle et personnelle à l'adresse de personnes autres que le destinataire ou les personnes habitant avec ce dernier.
8. - Sauf les exceptions prévues au Règlement, les papiers d'affaires, les imprimés, les impressions à l'usage des aveugles, les échantillons de marchandises et les petits paquets :
a) doivent être conditionnés de manière à pouvoir être facilement vérifiés ; b) ne peuvent porter aucune annotation ni contenir aucun document ayant le caractère de corres-
pondance actuelle et personnelle ; c) ne peuvent contenir aucun timbre-poste, aucune formule d'affranchissement, oblitérés ou non,
ni aucun papier représentatif d'une valeur. 9. Les échantillons de marchandises ne peuvent renfermer aucun objet ayant une valeur marchande. 10. - Le service des petits paquets et celui des envois « Phonopost» sont limités aux Pays qui se sont déclarés d'accord pour échanger ces envois, soit dans leurs relations réciproques, soit dans un seul sens.
11. La réunion en un seul envoi d'objets de correspondance de catégories différentes (objets groupés) est autorisée dans les conditions fixées par le Règlement.
12. - Sauf les exceptions prévues par la Convention et son Règlement, il n'est pas donné cours aux envois qui ne remplissent pas les conditions requises par le présent article et par les articles correspondants du Règlement. Les objets qui auraient été admis à tort doivent être renvoyés à l'Administration d'origine. Toutefois, l'Administration de destination est autorisée à les remettre aux destinataires. Dans ce cas, elle leur applique, s'il y a lieu, les taxes et surtaxes prévues pour la catégorie de correspondances dans laquelle les font placer leur contenu, leur poids ou leurs dimensions. En ce qui concerne les envois dépassant les limites de poids maxima fixées au § 1 , ils peuvent être taxés d'après leur poids réel.
ARTICLE 37.
Affranchissement .
1. En règle générale, tous les envois désignés à l'article 35 doivent être complètement affranchis par l'expéditeur.
2. Il n'est pas donné cours aux envois non ou insuffisamment affranchis autres que les lettres et les cartes postales simples, ni aux cartes postales avec réponse payée dont les deux parties ne sont pas entièrement affranchies au moment du dépôt.
3. Lorsque des lettres ou des cartes postales simples, non ou insuffisamment affranchies, sont expédiées en grand nombre, l'Administration du Pays de dépôt a la faculté de les rendre à l'expéditeur.
ARTICLE 38.
Taxe en cas d'absence ou d'insuffisance d'affranchissement.
1. En cas d'absence ou d'insuffisance d'affranchissement et sauf les exceptions prévues par l'article 57, § 6, pour les envois recommandés et par l'article 136, §§ 3, 4 et 5, du Règlement pour certaines catégories d'envois réexpédiés, les lettres et les cartes postales simples sont passibles, à la charge des destinataires, d'une taxe double du montant de l'affranchissement manquant, sans que cette taxe puisse être inférieure à 5 centimes.
2. Le même traitement peut être appliqué, dans les cas précités, aux autres objets de correspondance qui auraient été transmis à tort au Pays de destination.
ARTICLE 39.
Surtaxes.
1. Pour tout objet transporté par des services extraordinaires donnant lieu à des frais spéciaux, il peut être perçu, en sus des taxes fixées par l'article 36, une surtaxe en rapport avec ces frais.
2. · Lorsque le tarif d'affranchissement de la carte postale simple comprend la surtaxe autorisée par le § 1, ce même tarif est applicab'e à chacune des parties de la carte postale avec réponse payée.

3178

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 40.
Taxes spéciales. 1 . Les Administrations sont autorisées à frapper d'une taxe additionnelle, selon les dispositions de leur législation, les objets remis à leurs services d'expédition en dernière limite d'heure. 2. Les objets adressés poste restante peuvent être frappés par les Administrations des Pays de destination de la taxe spéciale qui serait prévue par leur législation pour les objets de même nature du régime interne. 3. Les Administrations des Pays de destination sont autorisées à percevoir une taxe spéciale de 40 centimes au maximum pour chaque petit paquet remis au destinataire. Cette taxe peut être augmentée de 20 centimes au maximum en cas de remise à domicile.
ARTICLE 41.
Objets passibles de droits de douane. 1. Les petits paquets et les imprimés passibles de droits de douane sont admis. 2. Il en est de même des lettres et des échantillons de marchandises contenant des objets passibles de droits de douane lorsque le Pays de destination a donné son consentement. Toutefois, chaque Administration a le droit de limiter aux lettres recommandées le service des lettres contenant des objets passibles de droits de douane. 3. Les envois de sérums et de vaccins, bénéficiant de l'exception stipulée à l'article 124 du Règlement, sont admis dans tous les cas.
ARTICLE 42. Contrôle douanier.
L'Administration du Pays destinataire est autorisée à soumettre au contrôle douanier les envois cités à l'article 41 et, le cas échéant, à les ouvrir d'office.
ARTICLE 43. Droit de dédouanement . Les envois soumis au contrôle douanier dans le Pays de destination peuvent être frappés de ce chef, au titre postal, d'un droit de dédouanement de 40 centimes au maximum par envoi.
ARTICLE 44. Droits de douane et autres droits non postaux.
Les Administrations sont autorisées à percevoir, sur les destinataires des envois, les droits de douane et tous autres droits non postaux éventuels.
ARTICLE 45.
Envois francs de droits .
1. Dans les relations entre les Pays qui se sont déclarés d'accord à cet égard, les expéditeurs peuvent prendre à leur charge, moyennant déclaration préalable au bureau de départ, la totalité des droits postaux et non postaux dont les envois sont grevés à la livraison. Dans ce cas, les expéditeurs doivent s'engager à payer les sommes qui pourraient être réclamées par le bureau destinataire et, le cas échéant, verser des arrhes suffisantes.
2. L'Administration destinataire est autorisée à percevoir un droit de commission qui ne peut dépasser 40 centimes par envoi. Ce droit est indépendant de celui qui est prévu à l'article 43.
3. - Toute Administration a le droit de limiter le service des envois francs de droits aux objets recommandés .
ARTICLE 46. Annulation des droits de douane et autres droits non postaux.
Les Administrations s'engagent à intervenir auprès des services intéressés de leur Pays pour que les droits de douane et autres droits non postaux soient annulés sur les envois renvoyés au Pays d'origine, détruits pour cause d'avarie complète du contenu ou réexpédiés sur un tiers Pays.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5 , 1947

3179

ARTICLE 47.
Envois exprès .
1. -- Les objets de correspondance sont, à la demande des expéditeurs, remis à domicile par porteur spécial immédiatement après l'arrivée, dans les Pays dont les Administrations consentent à se charger de ce service.
2. Ces envois, qualifiés « exprès » , sont soumis, en sus du port ordinaire, à une taxe spéciale s'élevant, au minimum, au montant de l'affranchissement d'une lettre ordinaire de port simple et au maximum à 60 centimes. Cette taxe doit être acquittée complètement à l'avance.
3. Lorsque le domicile du destinataire se trouve en dehors du rayon de distribution locale du bureau de destination, la remise par exprès peut donner lieu à la perception, par l'Administration de destination, d'une taxe complémentaire jusqu'à concurrence de celle qui est fixée pour les objets de même nature du régime interne. La remise par exprès n'est toutefois pas obligatoire dans ce cas.
4. Les objets exprès non complètement affranchis pour le montant total des taxes payables à l'avance sont distribués par les moyens ordinaires, à moins qu'ils n'aient été traités comme exprès par le bureau d'origine. Dans ce dernier cas, les envois sont taxes d'après les dispositions de l'article 38.
5. Il est loisible aux Administrations de s'en tenir à un seul essai de remise par exprès. Si cet essai est infructueux, l'objet peut être traité comme un envoi ordinaire.

ARTICLE 48. Envois à remettre en main propre.

Dans les relations avec les Administrations qui ont donné leur consentement, les objets de correspondance recommandés et accompagnés d'un avis de réception sont, à la demande de l'expéditeur, remis au destinataire en main propre.
ARTICLE 49.

Interdictions .

1. - L'expédition des objets visés dans la colonne 1 du tableau ci-après est interdite. Lorsque les envois qui contiennent ces objets ont été admis à tort à l'expédition, ils doivent subir le traitement indiqué dans la colonne 2 .

Objets

Traitement des envois admis à tort 2

a) les objets qui, par leur nature ou leur emballage, peuvent présenter du danger pour les agents, salir ou détériorer les correspondances;
b) les objets passibles de droits de douane (sauf les exceptions prévues à l'article 41) ainsi que les échantillons expédiés en nombre en vue d'éviter la perception de ces droits;
c) l'opium, la morphine, la cocaïne et autres stupéfiants ;
d) les objets dont l'admission ou la circulation est interdite dans le Pays de destination ;
e) les animaux vivants, à l'exception: 1º des abeilles, des sangsues et des vers à soie ; 2º des parasites et des destructeurs d'insectes nocifs destinés au contrôle de ces
insectes et échangés entre les institutions officiellement reconnues ; f) les matières explosibles, inflammables ou dangereuses; g) les objets obscènes ou immoraux ;

à traiter selon les règlements intérieurs de l'Administration qui en constate la présence ; toutefois, les objets visés sous c) ne sont en aucun cas ni acheminés à destination , ni délivrés aux destinataires, ni renvoyés à l'origine ;
à détruire sur place par l'Administration qui en constate la présence.

3180

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2. Dans les cas où des envois admis à tort à l'expédition ne seraient ni renvoyés à l'origine, ni remis au destinataire, l'Administration expéditrice doit être informée, d'une manière précise, du traitement appliqué à ces envois.
3. Est d'ailleurs réservé le droit de tout Pays de ne pas effectuer, sur son territoire , le transport en transit à découvert des objets autres que les lettres et les cartes postales, à l'égard desquels il n'a pas été satisfait aux dispositions légales qui règlent les conditions de leur publication ou de leur circulation dans ce Pays. Ces objets doivent être renvoyés à l'Administration d'origine.
ARTICLE 50.
Modalités d'affranchissement.
1 . L'affranchissement est opéré, soit au moyen de timbres-poste valables dans le Pays d'origine pour la correspondance des particuliers, soit au moyen d'empreintes de machines à affranchir, officiellement adoptées et fonctionnant sous le contrôle immédiat de l'Administration ou, en ce qui concerne les imprimés, au moyen d'empreintes à la presse d'imprimerie ou par un autre procédé lorsqu'un tel système d'impression est autorisé par les règlements intérieurs de l'Administration d'origine .
2. Sont considérés comme dûment affranchis : les cartes-réponse portant, imprimés ou colles, des timbres-poste du Pays d'émission de ces cartes, les envois régulièrement affranchis pour leur premier parcours et dont le complément de taxe a été acquitté avant leur réexpédition, ainsi que les journaux ou paquets de journaux et écrits périodiques dont la suscription porte la mention «Abonnements-poste» et qui sont expédiés en vertu de l'Arrangement concernant les abonnements aux journaux et écrits périodiques.
ARTICLE 51.
Affranchissement des correspondances à bord des navires.
Les correspondances déposées en pleine mer dans la boîte d'un navire ou entre les mains des agents des postes embarqués ou des commandants de navires peuvent être affranchies, sauf arrangement contraire entre les Administrations intéressées, au moyen de timbres-poste et d'après le tarif du Pays auquel appartient ou dont dépend ledit navire. Si le dépôt à bord a lieu pendant le stationnement aux deux points extrêmes du parcours ou dans l'une des escales intermédiaires, l'affranchissement n'est valable que s'il est effectué au moyen de timbres-poste et d'après le tarif du Pays dans les eaux duquel se trouve le navire.
ARTICLE 52.
Franchise postale.
1. Sont exonérées de toutes taxes postales les correspondances relatives au service postal échangées entre les Administrations des postes, entre ces Administrations et le Bureau international, entre les bureaux de poste des Pays de l'Union, et entre ces bureaux et les Administrations ainsi que celles dont le transport en franchise est expressément prévu par les dispositions de la Convention, des Arrangements et de leurs Règlements .
2.- Sauf lorsqu'ils sont grevés de remboursement, les envois destinés aux prisonniers de guerre ou expédiés par eux sont également exonérés de toutes taxes postales , aussi bien dans les Pays d'origine et de destination que dans les Pays intermédiaires.
3. Il en est de même des correspondances concernant les prisonniers de guerre, expédiées ou reçues, soit directement, soit à titre d'intermédiaire, par l'Agence centrale de renseignements sur les prisonniers de guerre prévue à l'article 79 de la Convention internationale de Genève du 27 juillet 1929 ou par les bureaux de renseignements qui seraient établis éventuellement pour ces personnes dans des Pays belligérants ou dans les Pays neutres ayant recueilli des belligérants sur leur territoire.
4. Les belligérants recueillis et internés dans un Pays neutre, ainsi que les civils de nationalité ennemie retenus dans des camps ou dans des prisons civiles, sont assimilés aux prisonniers de guerre proprement dits en ce qui concerne l'application des dispositions ci-dessus.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3181

ARTICLE 53.
Coupons-réponse internationaux.
1. Des coupons-réponse internationaux sont mis en vente dans les Pays de l'Union. 2. Le prix de vente en est déterminé par les Administrations intéressées, mais ne peut être inférieur à 28 centimes ou à l'équivalent dans la monnaie du Pays de débit. 3.- Chaque coupon est échangeable dans tout Pays contre un timbre ou des timbres représentant l'affranchissement d'une lettre ordinaire de port simple originaire de ce Pays à destination de l'étranger. 4. Est, en outre, réservée à chaque Pays la faculté d'exiger le dépôt simultané des coupons et des envois de correspondance à affranchir en échange de ces coupons.
ARTICLE 54.
Retrait. Modification d'adresse.
1. L'expéditeur d'un objet de correspondance peut le faire retirer du service ou en faire modifier l'adresse tant que cet objet n'a pas été livré au destinataire, qu'il ne tombe pas, s'il y a lieu, sous le coup des prescriptions de l'article 49, ou que l'intervention de la douane ne révèle aucune irrégularité.
2. La demande à formuler à cet effet est transmise, par voie postale ou par voie télégraphique, aux frais de l'expéditeur qui doit payer, pour chaque demande une taxe de 40 centimes au maximum. Si la demande doit être transmise par voie aérienne ou par voie télégraphique, l'expéditeur doit payer en outre la surtaxe aérienne ou la taxe télégraphique.
3. Pour chaque demande de retrait ou de modification d'adresse concernant plusieurs envois remis simultanément au même bureau par le même expéditeur à l'adresse du même destinataire, il n'est perçu qu'une seule des taxes ou surtaxes prévues au § 2.
4. Une simple correction d'adresse (sans modification du nom ou de la qualité du destinataire) peut être demandée directement par l'expéditeur au bureau destinataire, c'est-à-dire sans l'accomplissement des formalités et sans le payement des taxes prévues aux §§ 2 et 3.¹)
ARTICLE 55.
Réexpédition. Rebuts.
1. En cas de changement de résidence du destinataire, les objets de correspondance lui sont réexpédiés, à moins que l'expéditeur n'ait interdit la réexpédition par une annotation portée sur la suscription en une langue connue dans le Pays de destination.
2. - Les correspondances tombées en rebut doivent être renvoyées immédiatement au Pays d'origine.
3. Le délai de conservation des correspondances gardées en instance à la disposition des destinataires ou adressées poste restante est fixé par les règlements du Pays de destination. Toutefois, ce délai ne peut dépasser, en règle générale, un mois, sauf dans des cas particuliers où l'Administration de destination juge nécessaire de le prolonger jusqu'à deux mois au maximum. Le renvoi au Pays d'origine doit avoir lieu dans un délai plus court, si l'expéditeur l'a demandé par une annotation portée sur la suscription en une langue connue dans le Pays de destination.
4. - Les imprimés dénués de valeur ne sont pas renvoyés, sauf si l'expéditeur en a demandé le retour par une annotation portée sur l'envoi en une langue connue dans le Pays de destination. Les imprimés recommandés doivent toujours être renvoyés.
5.- La réexpédition d'objets de correspondance de Pays à Pays ou leur renvoi au Pays d'origine ne donne lieu à la perception d'aucun supplément de taxe, sauf les exceptions prévues au Règlement .
6. Les objets de correspondance qui sont réexpédiés ou tombés en rebut sont livrés aux destinataires ou aux expéditeurs contre payement des taxes dont ils ont été grevés au départ, à l'arrivée ou en cours de route par suite de réexpédition au-delà du premier parcours, sans préjudice du remboursement des droits de douane ou autres frais spéciaux dont le Pays de destination n'accorde pas l'annulation.
¹) Transfert de la disposition de l'article 151 du Règlement d'exécution de la Convention de Buenos Aires 1939.

3182

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

7. En cas de réexpédition sur un autre Pays ou de non-remise, la taxe de poste restante, le droit de dédouanement, le droit de commission, la taxe complémentaire d'exprès et le droit spécial de remise aux destinataires des petits paquets sont annulés.
ARTICLE 56.
Réclamations et demandes de renseignements .
1. La réclamation ou la demande de renseignements concernant tout envoi peut donner lieu à la perception d'un droit de 40 centimes au maximum. Lorsqu'une réclamation ou une demande de renseignements doit, sur la demande de l'intéressé, être transmise par la voie aérienne, elle donne lieu à la perception du même droit augmenté de la surtaxe aérienne correspondante ou du double de cette surtaxe, si la réponse doit être renvoyée par la même voie. Si l'emploi de la voie télégraphique est demandé, la taxe du télégramme est perçue en plus du droit prescrit.
2. Pour chaque réclamation ou demande de renseignements concernant plusieurs envois remis simultanément au même bureau par le même expéditeur à l'adresse du même destinataire, il n'est perçu qu'une seule des taxes ou surtaxes prévues au § 1.
3. En ce qui concerne les envois recommandés, aucun droit n'est perçu si l'expéditeur a déjà acquitté le droit spécial pour un avis de réception.
4. - Les réclamations ne sont admises que dans le délai d'un an à compter du lendemain du dépôt de l'envoi. Chaque Administration est, toutefois, tenue de donner suite aux simples demandes de renseignements, introduites après ce délai, dont elle est saisie par une autre Administration au sujet d'envois expédiés depuis moins de deux ans.
5. Chaque Administration est obligée d'accepter les réclamations et les demandes de renseignements concernant des envois déposés sur le territoire d'autres Administrations.
6. Lorsqu'une réclamation ou une demande de renseignements a été motivée par une faute de service, le droit perçu de ce chef est restitué.
CHAPITRE II.
Envois recommandés.
ARTICLE 57.
Taxes .
1. Les objets de correspondance désignés à l'article 35 peuvent être expédiés sous recommandation.
2. La taxe de tout envoi recommandé doit être acquittée à l'avance. Elle se compose: a) du port ordinaire de l'envoi, selon sa nature ; b) d'un droit fixe de recommandation de 40 centimes au maximum.
3.- Le droit fixe de recommandation afférent à la partie Réponse » d'une carte postale ne peut être valablement acquitté que par l'expéditeur de cette partie.
4. Un récépissé doit être délivré gratuitement, au moment du dépôt, à l'expéditeur d'un envoi recommandé.
5. Les Pays disposés à se charger des risques pouvant dériver du cas de force majeure sont autorisés à percevoir une taxe spéciale de 40 centimes au maximum pour chaque envoi recommandé.
6. Les envois recommandés non ou insuffisamment affranchis qui auraient été transmis à tort au Pays de destination sont passibles, à la charge des destinataires, d'une taxe égale au montant de l'affranchissement manquant.
ARTICLE 58.
Avis de réception.
1. - L'expéditeur d'un envoi recommandé peut demander un avis de réception en payant, au moment du dépôt, un droit fixe de 30 centimes au maximum .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3183

2. L'avis de réception peut être demandé postérieurement au dépôt de l'envoi dans le délai d'un an et moyennant le droit prévu à l'article 56 pour les réclamations.
ARTICLE 59.
Etendue de la responsabilité . 1. - Sauf les cas prévus à l'article 60 ci-après, les Administrations répondent de la perte des envois recommandés. 2. - L'expéditeur a droit, de ce chef, à une indemnité dont le montant est fixé à 25 francs par objet. 3. Les Administrations n'assument aucune responsabilité pour les envois saisis par la douane.
ARTICLE 60.
Exceptions au principe de la responsabilité.
Les Administrations sont dégagées de toute responsabilité pour la perte d'envois recommandés : a) en cas de force majeure ; toutefois, la responsabilité subsiste à l'égard de l'Administration
expéditrice qui a accepté de couvrir les risques de force majeure (art. 57, § 5). Le Pays responsable de la perte doit, suivant sa législation intérieure, décider si cette perte est due à des circonstances constituant un cas de force majeure ; celles-ci sont portées à la connaissance du Pays d'origine, à titre d'information; b) lorsque, la preuve de leur responsabilité n'ayant pas été administrée autrement, elles ne peuvent rendre compte des envois par suite de la destruction des documents de service résultant d'un cas de force majeure ; c, lorsqu'il s'agit d'envois dont le contenu tombe sous le coup des interdictions prévues aux articles 36, §§ 6 et 8, lettre c) , et 49, § 1; d) lorsque l'expéditeur n'a formulé aucune réclamation dans le délai d'un an prévu à l'article 56.
ARTICLE 61.
Cessation de la responsabilité.
Les Administrations cessent d'être responsables des envois recommandés dont elles ont effectué la remise dans les conditions prescrites par leur règlement intérieur pour les envois de même nature .
ARTICLE 62.
Détermination de la responsabilité. 1. --- Jusqu'à preuve du contraire, la responsabilité pour la perte d'un envoi recommandé incombe à l'Administration qui, ayant reçu l'objet sans faire d'observation et étant mise en possession de tous les moyens réglementaires d'investigation , ne peut établir ni la délivrance au destinataire ni, s'il y a lieu, la transmission régulière à l'Administration suivante. 2. Une Administration intermédiaire ou destinataire est, jusqu'à preuve du contraire, dégagée de toute responsabilité :
a) lorsqu'elle a observé les dispositions de l'article 150, § 4, du Règlement; b) lorsqu'elle peut établir qu'elle n'a été saisie de la réclamation qu'après la destruction des docu-
ments de service relatifs à l'envoi recherché, le délai de garde prévu à l'article 169 du Règlement étant expiré ; cette réserve ne porte pas atteinte aux droits du réclamant. 3. -- Toutefois, si la perte a eu lieu en cours de transport sans qu'il soit possible d'établir sur le territoire ou dans le service de quel Pays le fait s'est accompli, les Administrations en cause supportent le dommage par parts égales. 4. Lorsqu'un objet recommandé a été perdu dans des circonstances de force majeure, l'Administration sur le territoire ou dans le service de laquelle la perte a eu lieu n'en est responsable envers l'Administration expéditrice que si les deux Pays se chargent des risques dérivant du cas de force majeure.

3184

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

5. Les droits de douane et autres dont l'annulation n'a pu être obtenue tombent à la charge des Administrations responsables de la perte.
6. L'Administration qui a effectué le payement de l'indemnité est subrogée, jusqu'à concurrence du montant de cette indemnité, dans les droits de la personne qui l'a reçue, pour tout recours éventuel, soit contre le destinataire, soit contre l'expéditeur ou contre des tiers.
7. En cas de découverte ultérieure d'un envoi recommandé ou d'une partie de cet envoi, considéré comme perdu, l'expéditeur et le destinataire sont mis au courant de ce fait.
8. L'expéditeur est en outre informé qu'il peut en prendre livraison pendant une période de trois mois, contre remboursement du montant de l'indemnité reçue. Si , dans ce délai, cet expéditeur ne réclame pas l'envoi, le destinataire est avisé qu'il peut en prendre livraison pendant une période de même durée, moyennant payement du montant versé à l'expéditeur.
9. Si l'expéditeur ou le destinataire prend livraison de l'envoi moyennant remboursement du montant de l'indemnité, ce montant est restitué à l'Administration ou, s'il y a lieu, aux Administrations qui ont supporté le dommage.
10. - Si l'expéditeur et le destinataire renoncent à prendre livraison de l'envoi, ce dernier est considéré comme tombé en rebut.
ARTICLE 63.
Payement de l'indemnité.
L'obligation de payer l'indemnité incombe à l'Administration dont relève le bureau de dépôt de l'envoi, sous réserve de son droit de recours contre l'Administration responsable.
ARTICLE 64.
Délai de payement de l'indemnité . 1 . - Le payement de l'indemnité doit avoir lieu le plus tôt possible et, au plus tard, dans le délai de six mois à compter du lendemain du jour de la réclamation . Ce délai est porté à neuf mois dans les relations avec les Pays éloignés. 2. - L'Administration de dépôt de l'envoi qui n'accepte pas de se charger des risques dérivant du cas de force majeure peut différer le règlement de l'indemnité au-delà du délai prévu au § 1 lorsque la question de savoir si la perte de l'envoi est due à un cas de l'espèce n'est pas tranchée. 3. L'Administration d'origine est autorisée à désintéresser l'expéditeur pour le compte de l'Administration intermédiaire ou destinataire qui, régulièrement saisie, a laissé s'écouler trois mois ou six mois dans les relations avec les Pays éloignés, sans donner de solution à l'affaire. Un délai plus long est admis si la perte paraît due à un cas de force majeure; en tout état de cause, ce fait doit être porté à la connaissance de l'Administration d'origine.
ARTICLE 65.
Remboursement de l'indemnité à l'Administration expéditrice.
1. L'Administration responsable ou pour le compte de laquelle le payement est effectué en conformité de l'article 64 est tenue de rembourser à l'Administration expéditrice, dans un délai de six mois à compter de l'envoi de la notification du payement, le montant de l'indemnité effectivement payée à l'expéditeur. Ce délai est porté à neuf mois dans les relations avec les Pays éloignés.
2. Si l'indemnité doit être supportée par plusieurs Administrations en conformité de l'article 62, l'intégralité de l'indemnité due doit être versée à l'Administration expéditrice, dans le délai mentionné au § 1, par la première Administration qui, ayant dûment reçu l'envoi réclamé, ne peut en établi la transmission régulière au service correspondant. Il appartient à cette Administration de récupérer sur les autres Administrations responsables la quote-part éventuelle de chacune d'elles dans le dédommagement de l'ayant droit.
3. - Le remboursement à l'Administration créancière s'effectue sans frais pour cette Administration, soit au moyen d'un mandat de poste, d'un chèque ou d'une traite payable à vue sur la capitale ou sur une place commerciale du Pays créancier, soit en espèces ayant cours dans ce Pays.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3185

4. Lorsque la responsabilité a été reconnue, de même que dans le cas prévu à l'article 64, § 3, le montant de l'indemnité peut également être repris d'office sur le Pays responsable par la voie d'un décompte quelconque, soit directement, soit par l'intermédiaire d'une Administration qui échange régulièrement des décomptes avec l'Administration responsable.
5. Passé le délai de six mois, la somme due à l'Administration expéditrice est productive d'intérêt à raison de 5 % l'an à compter du jour de l'expiration dudit délai. Ce délai est porté à neuf mois dans les relations avec les Pays éloignés.
6. ---- L'Administration d'origine ne peut réclamer le remboursement de l'indemnité à l'Administration responsable que dans le délai d'un an à compter de l'envoi de la notification de la perte, ou, s'il y a lieu, du jour de l'expiration du délai prévu à l'article 64, § 3.
7. - L'Administration dont la responsabilité est dûment établie et qui a tout d'abord décliné le payement de l'indemnité doit prendre à sa charge tous les frais accessoires résultant du retard non justifié apporté au payement.
8. Les Administrations peuvent s'entendre pour liquider périodiquement les indemnités qu'elles ont payées aux expéditeurs et dont elles ont reconnu le bien-fondé.

CHAPITRE III.
Attribution des taxes. Frais de transit.
ARTICLE 66. Attribution des taxes.
Sauf les cas expressément prévus par la Convention , chaque Administration garde en entier les taxes qu'elle a percues.
ARTICLE 67. Frais de transit. 1.- Les correspondances échangées en dépêches closes entre deux Administrations, au moyen des services d'une ou de plusieurs autres Administrations (services tiers), sont soumises, au profit de chacun des Pays traversés ou dont les services participent au transport, aux frais de transit indiqués dans le tableau suivant:

1º Parcours territoriaux :

Jusqu'à 1000 km .

Au-delà de 1000 jusqu'à 2000 km ..

» 2000

3000 km..

» 3000

6000 km ..

» 6000

9000 km..

» 9000 km..

2º Parcours maritimes :
Jusqu'à 300 milles marins Au-delà de 300 jusqu'à 1500 milles marins Entre l'Europe et l'Amérique du Nord . Au-delà de 1500 jusqu'à 6000 milles marins Au-delà de 6000 milles marins

Par kilogramme

de lettres et de cartes postales
Fr. c.

d'autres objets
Fr. c.

-.60

-.08

-.80 -.12

1.20

16

2.-

-.24

2.80

.32

3.60

-.40

-.60 1.60 2.40 3.20 4.80

-.08 -.20 .32
-.40 -.60

3186

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2. - Les frais de transit pour le transport maritime sur un trajet n'excédant pas 300 milles marins sont fixés au tiers des sommes prévues au § 1 , si l'Administration intéressée reçoit déjà, du chef des dépêches transportées, la rémunération afférente au transit territorial.
3. En cas de transport maritime effectué par deux ou plusieurs Administrations, les frais du parcours maritime total ne peuvent pas dépasser 4 francs 80 par kilogramme de lettres et de cartes postales et 60 centimes par kilogramme d'autres objets. Le cas échéant, ces montants maxima sont répartis entre les Administrations participant au transport, au prorata des distances parcourues.
4. Sont considérés comme services tiers, à moins d'arrangement contraire, les transports maritimes effectués directement entre deux Pays au moyen de navires de l'un d'eux ainsi que les transports effectués entre deux bureaux d'un même Pays par l'intermédiaire de services d'un autre Pays.
5. Sont considérés comme autres objets, en ce qui concerne le transit, les petits paquets, les journaux ou paquets de journaux et écrits périodiques expédiés en vertu de l'Arrangement concernant les abonnements aux journaux et écrits périodiques ainsi que les boîtes avec valeur déclarée expédiées en vertu de l'Arrangement concernant les lettres et les boîtes avec valeur déclarée
6.  Les dépêches mal dirigées sont considérées, en ce qui concerne le payement des frais de transit, comme si elles avaient suivi leur voie normale.
ARTICLE 68.
Exemption de frais de transit.
Sont exempts de tous frais de transit territorial ou maritime, les correspondances en franchise postale mentionnées à l'article 52, les cartes postales-réponse renvoyées au Pays d'origine, les envois réexpédiés, les rebuts, les avis de réception, les mandats de poste et tous autres documents relatifs au service postal, notamment les plis concernant les virements postaux.
ARTICLE 69.
Services extraordinaires.
Les frais de transit spécifiés à l'article 67 ne s'appliquent pas au transport au moyen de services extraordinaires spécialement créés ou entretenus par une Administration sur la demande d'une ou de plusieurs autres Administrations. Les conditions de cette catégorie de transports sont réglées de gré à gré entre les Administrations intéressées.
ARTICLE 70.
Payements et décomptes. 1. - Les frais de transit sont à la charge de l'Administration du Pays d'origine, 2. -- Le décompte général de ces frais a lieu d'après les données de relevés statistiques établis, une fois tous les trois ans, pendant une période de quatorze jours. Cette période est portée à vingthuit jours pour les dépêches échangées moins de six fois par semaine par les services d'un Pays quelconque. Le Règlement détermine la période et la durée d'application des statistiques. 3. - Lorsque le solde annuel entre deux Administrations ne dépasse pas 25 francs, l'Administration débitrice est exonérée de tout payement. 4. Toute Administration est autorisée à soumettre à l'appréciation d'une Commission d'arbitres les résultats d'une statistique qui, d'après elle, différeraient trop de la réalité. Cet arbitrage est constitué ainsi qu'il est prévu à l'article 12. 5. Les arbitres ont le droit de fixer en bonne justice le montant des frais de transit à payer.
ARTICLE 71.
Echange de dépêches closes avec des bâtiments de guerre.
1. Des dépêches closes peuvent être échangées entre les bureaux de poste de l'un des Pays contractants et les commandants de divisions navales ou bâtiments de guerre de ce même Pays en station à l'étranger, ou entre le commandant d'une de ces divisions navales ou d'un de ces bâtiments

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3187

de guerre et le commandant d'une autre division ou d'un autre bâtiment du même Pays, par l'intermédiaire des services territoriaux ou maritimes d'autres Pays.
2. - Les correspondances de toute nature comprises dans ces dépêches doivent être exclusivement à l'adresse ou en provenance des états-majors et des équipages des bâtiments destinataires ou expéditeurs des dépêches ; les tarifs et conditions d'envoi qui leur sont applicables sont déterminés, d'après ses règlements intérieurs, par l'Administration des postes du Pays auquel appartiennent les bâtiments .
3. - Sauf arrangement contraire, l'Administration du Pays dont relèvent les bâtiments de guerre est redevable, envers les Administrations intermédiaires, des frais de transit des dépêches calculés conformément aux dispositions de l'article 67.
Dispositions diverses.
ARTICLE 72.
Inobservation de la liberté de transit.
Lorsqu'un Pays n'observe pas les dispositions de l'article 28 concernant la liberté de transit, les Administrations ont le droit de supprimer le service postal avec ce Pays . Elles doivent donner préalablement avis de cette mesure par télégramme aux Administrations intéressées.
ARTICLE 73.
Engagements relatifs aux mesures pénales.
Les Pays contractants s'engagent à prendre, ou à proposer à leurs pouvoirs législatifs respectifs, les mesures nécessaires :
a) pour punir la contrefaçon des timbres-poste, même retirés de la circulation, des coupons-réponse internationaux et des cartes d'identité postales ;
b) pour punir l'usage ou la mise en circulation : 1º de timbres-poste contrefaits (même retirés de la circulation) ou ayant déjà servi, ainsi que d'empreintes contrefaites ou ayant déjà servi de machines à affranchir ou de presses d'imprimerie ; 2º de coupons-réponse internationaux contrefaits ; 3º de cartes d'identité postales contrefaites ;
c) pour punir l'emploi frauduleux de cartes d'identité postales régulières ; d) pour interdire et réprimer toutes opérations frauduleuses de fabrication et de mise en circula-
tion de vignettes et timbres en usage dans le service postal, contrefaits ou imités de telle manière qu'ils pourraient être confondus avec les vignettes et timbres émis par l'Administration d'un des Pays contractants ; e) pour empêcher et, le cas échéant, punir l'insertion d'opium, de morphine, de cocaïne ou d'autres stupéfiants, de même que des matières explosibles ou facilement inflammables, dans des envois postaux en faveur desquels cette insertion ne serait pas expressément autorisée par la Convention et les Arrangements.
Dispositions finales.
ARTICLE 74.
Mise à exécution et durée de la Convention.
La présente Convention sera mise à exécution le 1er juillet 1948 et demeurera en vigueur pendant un temps indéterminé.
En foi de quoi, les Plénipotentiaires des Gouvernements des Pays ci-dessus énumérés ont signé la présente Convention en un exemplaire qui restera déposé aux Archives du Gouvernement de la République Française et dont une copie sera remise à chaque Partie.
Fait à Paris, le 5 juillet 1947. 68706 0-51- PT. III- 37

3188

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Pour L'AFGHANISTAN : 1.Khundan ke

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE D'ALBANIE :




A. Kayoum

1 A.K.

Pour L'UNION DE L'AFRIQUE DU SUD :
  

Pour L'ALLEMAGNE :

Pour LES ÉTATS-UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE :

ohad J

Sallan

Pour Frank PaceJr. JohJ n . Sellin

Edward

Mahoney

J. ,

Frederick

Batrus

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL--UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3189

Pour L'ENSEMBLE des possessIONS DES ÉTATS-UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE :

Bom Frank PareJr. JohJ n acin

Edward J. Mahoney Frederick & Batrus

Pour LE ROYAUME DE L'ARABIE SAOUDITE :

Pour LE COMMONWEALTH DE L'AUSTRALIE :

Hafing Wapla

Mr.Fanning

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE ARGENTINE :
Pour Oscar L. Nicolini. ABB Canalle

Merdught

Pour L'AUTRICHE :

olf d

hen

DRu

Kuc

A.B. Canalle

Pour LA BELGIQUE :

Roque

et Happened

t

kou

cho

S

en ic Mr

3190

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Pour LA COLONIE DU CONGO BELGE :
Méry
Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE SOVIÉTIQUE SOCIALISTE
DE BIÉLORUSSIE :

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE POPULAIRE
DE BULGARIE :
ghiff gheor A
Alohenod

snacof. Nossor

Pour LE CANADA :

Pour LA BOLIVIE :
Andent.

Son un dde er rwwo oo od d .

Pour LE BRÉSIL :

Lufermain

 

Ranchdatenquerque aclos
Ensary suppt . Julio Sanchez Perez

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL -UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3191

Pour LE CHILI :

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE CUBA:

Pour LA CHINE :

Bolgark



Jenisday

Pour

LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE COLOMBIE : Pour

L. Borda Roldan

LE DANEMARK :

Cruftrag

Jagshin Jg eans
Pour LA CORÉE :

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE DOMINICAINE :

JMP annenze



Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE COSTA-RICA :

3192

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Pour L'ÉGYPTE :
Ahmed mandorels mouri Bey Moawad Khalil Bioliar
Anouar Bak Pour
LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE EL SALVADOR :   

Pour LA FRANCE :
danh   Arula

Ablehner Pour
L'ÉQUATEUR :
Manal
Pour L'ESPAGNE :

Baue n
berm ang
Danes t

Pour L'ENSEMBLE DES COLONIES ESPAGNOLES :

Pour L'ÉTHIOPIE :
respace reques Pour
LA FINLANDE : folan Halo
Hloha Vatuitie Fanno Pustiune

Pour L'ALGÉRIE :
Hlaboun

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3193

Pour L'INDOCHINE :

Pour
L'ENSEMBLE DES TERRITOIRES BRITANNIQUES D'OUTRE-MER, Y COMPRIS LES COLONIES, LES PROTECTORATS ET LES TERRITOIRES SOUS MANDAT OU SOUS TUTELLE EXERCÉ PAR LE GOUVERNEMENT DU ROYAUME-UNI DE LA GRANDEBRETAGNE ET DE L'IRLANDE DU NORD :

Pour
L'ENSEMBLE DES AUTRES TERRITOIRES D'OUTRE-MER DE LA RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE ET DES TERRITOIRES ADMINISTRÉS COMME TELS :

ury

idh

Zh

.

imen Chat

 

R. H. Locke

Pour LE ROYAUME -UNI DE LA GRANDE-BRETAGNE ET DE L'IRLANDE
DU NORD :
O.Thidbur. y

nilhaim Well
a. Wtucull. Pour
LA GRÈCE :



R. H. Locke. Juilliaml Ep Beep

ToBredemer.
Pour LE GUATEMALA :

a . Whitencall.

E. Yumor Heavy._

3194

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE D'HAÏTI :
Merari's
Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE DU HONDURAS :
Pemang Aholehma Pour LA HONGRIE :
Modos Eleméz Pour
L'INDE :

 

Pour L'IRAN : Nedje
J.. Parso
Pour L'IRAQ : 
 BarkFe ai rle

saday Khra

ermning ami

lith

jl

isky th

shupla Suwa
N. Chandra .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3195

Pour L'IRLANDE :

Pour LE LUXEMBOURG :

SS Sma ma rrééc ce e

S.ó h 6 Pour
LA RÉPUBLIQUE D'ISLANDE :

Pour LE MAROC (À L'EXCLUSION DE LA ZONE
ESPAGNOLE) :
Jerus

Magun Forhumun Pour
L'ITALIE :
Antonio Pennetta


Pour LE MAROC (ZONE ESPAGNOLE) :

Paolo Movi
Pour LE JAPON:

Pour LE MEXIQUE :
Wina

Pour LE LIBAN:

LamofPersona

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE LIBÉRIA:

Pour LE NICARAGUA :

3196

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Pour LA NORVÈGE :

Pour LES PAYS-BAS :

Phen Hang
Mgo-hid Säkon Emiten
Pour LA NOUVELLE-ZÉLANDE : menyer

refors hofman
Pour CURAÇAO ET SURINAM :

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE PANAMA:

hofman

Thamhafall
aligulama/ OcañaV

Pour LES INDES NÉERLANDAISES :
P D. Bergant

Pour LE PARAGUAY :



Pour Oscar

Ni

L. coline

D.B. analle

BR . B Canalle

Roques

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3197)

Pour LE PÉROU :
Pour Arturo Farcia - Salazar EarlisMackshevil
Zulickackchemic

Cementolaine

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE DES PHILIPPINES:
F. Cuaderno
(BELARMINO P. NAVARRO)
Pour LA POLOGNE :
BrBraien T. Jason
M. Herwich

Pour LE PORTUGAL: tumthathinas Jorge Vazy
Sumay you

3198

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Pour LES COLONIES PORTUGAISES DE L'AFRIQUE OCCIDENTALE :
Autoristahadd aDeavuto

Joop -Amor thegodziny
Pour LES COLONIES PORTUGAISES DE L'AFRIQUE ORIENTALE,
DE L'ASIE ET DE L'OCÉANIE :

lips hetriodehides areto Luis judidorauira

Pour LA ROUMANIE : Rotca
icolan Pour
LA RÉPUBLIQUE DE SAINT-MARIN : R.Traceur

Pour LE SIAM :
Babrakhm
2588:

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3199

Pour LA SUÈDE :
Game Legen Auan Thusma , Ture Myland
Pour LA CONFÉDÉRATION SUISSE :
1 ples Tuass
PL.futu Chammi
Hherf

Pour LA TCHÉCOSLOVAQUIE :
StanislavKoneen
pohotnery Miner Frises
DrJeant.Norman Pour
LE ROYAUME HACHÉMITE DE TRANSJORDANIE :

Pour LA TUNISIE :

en abe

S

h

Pour LA TURQUIE :

Pour LA SYRIE :


Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE SOVIÉTIQUE
SOCIALISTE D'UKRAINE:

Adil Dasnan '



N. Stass

Mammog



3200

+ INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Pour L'UNION DES RÉPUBLIQUES SOVIÉTIQUES SOCIALISTES :

1.

. 

P. Sarafovning

2. Manife

N. Stass

3. . 

N. Bouchou

4. D. Epurun

2. Eriguine

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE ORIENTALE DE L'URUGUAY:

Pour L'ÉTAT DE LA CITÉ DU VATICAN :
Sopranistagnazi

Pour LES ÉTATS-UNIS DE VÉNÉZUÉLA:
Parts Catsnecend

Aseline

Einfall

Pour L'YÉMEN :

Pour LA RÉPUBLIQUE FÉDÉRATIVE POPULAIRE DE YOUGOSLAVIE :

Vladimir Sink

J

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3201

PROTOCOLE FINAL DE LA CONVENTION

Au moment de procéder à la signature de la Convention postale universelle conclue à la date de ce jour, les Plénipotentiaires soussignés sont convenus de ce qui suit :

I. Retrait. Modification d'adresse.

Les dispositions de l'article 54 ne s'appliquent pas à la Grande-Bretagne, ni à ceux des Dominions, Colonies et Protectorats britanniques dont la législation intérieure ne permet pas le retrait ou la modification d'adresse de correspondances à la demande de l'expéditeur.

II. Equivalents. Limites maxima et minima.

1.- Chaque Pays a la faculté de majorer de 40 % ou de réduire de 20 % au maximum les taxes prévues à l'article 36, § 1 , conformément aux indications du tableau ci-après :

premier échelon . Lettres
par échelon supplémentaire .
simples Cartes postales { avec réponse payée .
1er échelon de poids .
Papiers d'affaires par échelon supplémentaire. Minimum de taxe
Impressions en relief pour les aveugles, par 1000 grammes . 1er échelon de poids .
Imprimés { par échelon supplémentaire 1er échelon de poids
Echantillons de marchandises { par échelon supplémentaire
Petits paquets, par 50 grammes Minimum de taxe
premier échelon Envois «Phonopost>
par échelon supplémentaire

2244

Limites inférieures
Centimes
16 9,6 9,6 19,2 6,4 3,2 16 1,6 6,4 3,2 6,4 3.2 6,4 32 12 . 8

Limites supérieures
Centimes
28 16,8 16,8 33,6 11,2 5,6 28 2,8 11,2 5,6 11,2 5,6 11,2 56 21 14

2. Les taxes choisies doivent, autant que possible, être entre elles dans les mêmes proportions que les taxes de base, chaque Administration ayant la faculté d'arrondir ses taxes en plus ou en moins selon le cas et suivant les convenances de son système monétaire.
3. Le tarif adopté par un Pays s'applique aux taxes à percevoir à l'arrivée par suite d'absence ou d'insuffisance d'affranchissement.
III.
Exception à l'application du tarif des papiers d'affaires, des imprimés et des échantillons de marchandises.
Par dérogation aux dispositions de l'article 36, les Pays ont le droit de ne pas appliquer aux papiers d'affaires, aux imprimés et aux échantillons la taxe fixée pour le premier échelon de poids et de maintenir pour cet échelon la taxe de 4 centimes, avec un minimum de 8 centimes pour les échantillons de marchandises.

3202

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

IV. Once avoirdupois.
Il est admis, par mesure d'exception, que les Pays qui, à cause de leur régime intérieur, ne peuvent adopter le type de poids métrique décimal, ont la faculté d'y substituer l'once avoirdupois (28,3465 grammes) en assimilant 1 once à 20 grammes pour les lettres et les envois dits « Phonopost>> et 2 onces à 50 grammes pour les papiers d'affaires, imprimés, impressions en relief à l'usage des aveugles, échantillons et petits paquets.
V.
Dépôt de correspondances à l'étranger.
Aucun Pays n'est tenu d'acheminer, ni de distribuer aux destinataires, les envois que des expéditeurs quelconques domiciliés sur son territoire déposent ou font déposer dans un Pays étranger, en vue de bénéficier des taxes plus basses qui y sont établies. La règle s'applique sans distinction, soit aux envois préparés dans le Pays habité par l'expéditeur et transportés ensuite à travers la frontière, soit aux envois confectionnés dans un Pays étranger. L'Administration intéressée a le droit, ou de renvoyer les objets en question à l'origine, ou de les frapper de ses taxes intérieures. Les modalités de la perception des taxes sont laissées à son choix.
VI. Coupons-réponse internationaux.
Les Administrations ont la faculté de ne pas se charger du débit des coupons-réponse internationaux ou d'en limiter la vente.
VII.
Droit de recommandation .
Les Pays qui ne peuvent pas fixer à 40 centimes le droit de recommandation prévu à l'article 56, § 2, sont autorisés à percevoir un droit pouvant s'élever jusqu'à 50 centimes ou éventuellement jusqu'au taux fixé pour leur service intérieur.
VIII.
Services aériens.
1. Les dispositions concernant le transport de la poste aux lettres par voie aérienne sont annexées à la Convention postale universelle et sont considérées comme faisant partie intégrante de celle-ci et de son Règlement.
2. Toutefois, par dérogation aux dispositions générales de la Convention , la modification de ces dispositions peut être envisagée de temps à autre par une Conférence comprenant les représentants des Administrations directement intéressées.
3. Cette Conférence peut être convoquée par l'intermédiaire du Bureau international à la demande de trois au moins de ces Administrations.
4. L'ensemble des dispositions proposées par cette Conférence devra être soumis , par l'intermédiaire du Bureau international, au vote des Pays de l'Union . La décision sera prise à la majorité des voix exprimées.
IX.
Exception à la liberté du transit des petits paquets. Par dérogation aux dispositions de l'article 28, l'Administration des postes de l'Union des Républiques Soviétiques Socialistes est autorisée à ne pas admettre les petits paquets en transit par ses territoires, étant entendu que cette restriction s'appliquera indistinctement à tous les Pays de l'Union.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3203

X.
Frais spéciaux de transit par le Transsibérien et le Transandin. 1. Par dérogation aux dispositions de l'article 67, § 1 (Tableau), l'Administration postale de l'Union des Républiques Soviétiques Socialistes est autorisée à percevoir les frais de transit par la voie du Transsibérien pour les deux directions (Mandchourie ou Vladivostok), à raison de 4 francs 50 par kilogramme de lettres et de cartes postales et de 50 centimes par kilogramme d'autres objets, pour les distances dépassant 6000 kilomètres. 2.- L'Administration de la République Argentine est autorisée à percevoir un supplément de 30 centimes sur les frais de transit mentionnés à l'article 67, § 1 , chiffre 1º, de la Convention, pour chaque kilogramme de correspondance de toute nature transportée en transit par la section argentine du «Ferrocarril Trasandino ».
XI. Conditions spéciales de transit pour l'Afghanistan. Par dérogation aux dispositions de l'article 67, § 1, l'Administration de l'Afghanistan est autorisée provisoirement, en raison des difficultés particulières qu'elle rencontre en matière de moyens de transport et de communication, à effectuer le transit des dépêches closes et des correspondances à découvert à travers son Pays, à des conditions spécialement convenues entre elle et les Administrations intéressées.
XII.
Frais d'entrepôt spéciaux à Aden. A titre exceptionnel, l'Administration d'Aden est autorisée à percevoir une taxe de 40 centimes par sac pour toutes les dépêches entreposées à Aden, pourvu que cette Administration ne reçoive aucun droit de transit territorial ou maritime pour ces dépêches.
XIII.
Frais spéciaux de transbordement.
Exceptionnellement, l'Administration portugaise est autorisée à percevoir 40 centimes par sac pour toutes les dépêches transbordées au port de Lisbonne.
XIV.
Protocole laissé ouvert aux Pays non représentés.
Le Protocole reste ouvert aux Pays de l'Union, non représentés au Congrès, pour leur permettre d'adhérer à la Convention et aux Arrangements qui y ont été conclus, ou seulement à l'un ou à l'autre d'entre eux.
XV.
Protocole laissé ouvert aux Pays représentés pour signatures et adhésions. Le Protocole demeure ouvert en faveur des Pays dont les représentants n'ont signé aujourd'hui que la Convention ou un certain nombre seulement des Arrangements arrêtés par le Congrès, à l'effet de leur permettre d'adhérer aux autres Arrangements signés ce jour, ou à l'un ou à l'autre d'entre eux.
XVI. Délai pour la notification des adhésions .
Les adhésions prévues aux articles XIV et XV devront être notifiées, en la forme diplomatique, par les Gouvernements intéressés au Gouvernement de la République Française et par celui-ci aux autres Etats de l'Union . Le délai accordé auxdits Gouvernements pour cette notification expirera le 1er juillet 1948.
68706 0-51 - PT. III- -38

3204

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

[62 STAT.

XVII.
Protocole laissé ouvert aux Pays momentanément empêchés d'adhérer à la Convention et aux Arrangements.
1. L'Espagne, le Maroc (Zone espagnole) et l'Ensemble des Colonies espagnoles, momentanément empêchés d'adhérer à la Convention et aux Arrangements, comme suite à une décision du XIIe Congrès postal universel prise conformément à la résolution de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies du 12 décembre 1946, pourront, sans se soumettre aux formalités prévues à l'article 3, adhérer à ces Actes dès que cette résolution sera rapportée ou sera devenue sans objet.
2. L'Allemagne, le Japon et la Corée, momentanément empêchés d'adhérer à la Convention et aux Arrangements pourront, sans se soumettre aux formalités prévues à l'article 3, adhérer à ces Actes au moment jugé opportun par l'autorité responsable.
3. - Les adhésions prévues aux §§ 1 et 2 devront être notifiées, en la forme diplomatique, par les Gouvernements intéressés au Gouvernement de la République Française et par celui-ci aux autres Etats de l'Union.
En foi de quoi, les Plénipotentiaires ci-dessous ont dressé le présent Protocole, qui aura la même force et la même valeur que si ses dispositions étaient insérées dans le texte même de la Convention, et ils l'ont signé en un exemplaire qui restera déposé aux archives du Gouvernement de la République Française et dont une copie sera remise à chaque Partie.
Fait à Paris, le 5 juillet 1947.
Signatures. (Les mêmes qu'aux pages 29 et suivantes.) [¹]

DÉCLARATION FAITE AU MOMENT DE LA SIGNATURE, AU SENS DE L'ARTICLE 9 DE LA CONVENTION
CONCERNANT L'APPLICATION DE LADITE CONVENTION AUX COLONIES, PROTECTORATS, ETC.
La délégation de l'Union de l'Afrique du Sud déclare que l'acceptation par elle de la présente Convention comprend le Territoire sous mandat de l'Afrique du Sud-Ouest.
Paris, le 5 juillet 1947. L. C. BURKE .
1 For signatures, see p . 3188 ; for romanization , see p. 3416.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3205

Annexe
ACCORD
entre
L'ORGANISATION DES NATIONS UNIES ET
L'UNION POSTALE UNIVERSELLE.
Préambule .
Vu les obligations qui incombent à l'Organisation des Nations Unies selon l'Article 57 de la Charte des Nations Unies, l'Organisation des Nations Unies et l'Union postale universelle conviennent de ce qui suit:
ARTICLE I. L'Organisation des Nations Unies reconnaît l'Union postale universelle (désignée ci-dessous sous le nom de l'Union ») comme étant l'institution spécialisée chargée de prendre toutes les mesures conformes à son acte constitutif pour atteindre les buts qu'elle s'est fixés dans cet acte.
ARTICLE II. Représentation réciproque. 1. Des représentants de l'Organisation des Nations Unies seront invités à assister aux congrès, conférences administratives et commissions de l'Union, et à participer, sans droit de vote, aux délibérations de ces réunions. 2.- Des représentants de l'Union seront invités à assister aux réunions du Conseil économique et social des Nations Unies (désigné ci-dessous sous le nom de « le Conseil »), de ses commissions ou comités et à participer, sans droit de vote, aux délibérations de ces organes, lorsque seront traitées les questions inscrites à l'ordre du jour auxquelles l'Union serait intéressée . 3. Des représentants de l'Union seront invités à assister, à titre consultatif, aux réunions de l'Assemblée générale au cours desquelles des questions qui sont de la compétence de l'Union doivent être discutées, et à participer, sans droit de vote, aux délibérations des commissions principales de l'Assemblée générale traitant des questions auxquelles l'Union serait intéressée. 4. -- Le Secrétariat de l'Organisation des Nations Unies effectuera la distribution de toutes communications écrites présentées par l'Union aux Membres de l'Assemblée générale, du Conseil et de ses organes ainsi que du Conseil de tutelle, selon le cas. De même, des communications écrites présentées par l'Organisation des Nations Unies seront distribuées par l'Union à ses membres.
ARTICLE III. Inscription de questions à l'ordre du jour.
Sous réserve des consultations préliminaires qui pourraient être nécessaires, l'Union inscrira à l'ordre du jour de ses congrès, conférences administratives ou commissions ou, le cas échéant, soumettra à ses membres suivant la procédure prévue par la Convention postale universelle, les questions portées devant elle par l'Organisation des Nations Unies. Réciproquement, le Conseil, ses commissions et comités, de même que le Conseil de tutelle, inscriront à leur ordre du jour les questions qui leur seront soumises par l'Union..

3206

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE IV.
Recommandations de l'Organisation des Nations Unies. 1. - L'Union prendra toutes mesures pour soumettre aussitôt que possible, à toutes fins utiles, à ses congrès, conférences administratives et commissions ou à ses membres, suivant la procédure prévue par la Convention postale universelle, toute recommandation officielle que l'Organisation des Nations Unies pourrait lui adresser. Ces recommandations seront adressées à l'Union et non directement à ses membres.
2. L'Union procédera à des échanges de vues avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies sur sa demande, au sujet de ces recommandations, et fera rapport en temps opportun à l'Organisation sur la suite donnée par l'Union ou par ses membres, auxdites recommandations ou sur tous autres résultats qui auraient suivi la prise en considération de ces recommandations.
3. L'Union coopérera à toute autre mesure nécessaire pour assurer la coordination effective des activités des institutions spécialisées et de l'Organisation des Nations Unies. En particulier, elle collaborera avec tout organe que le Conseil pourrait créer en vue de favoriser cette coordination et pour fournir les informations nécessaires à l'accomplissement de cette tâche.
ARTICLE V.
Echange d'informations et de documents.
1. Sous réserve des mesures nécessaires à la sauvegarde du caractère confidentiel de certains documents, l'échange le plus complet et le plus rapide d'informations et de documents sera effectué entre l'Organisation des Nations Unies et l'Union.
9 Sans porter préjudice au caractère général des dispositions de l'alinéa précédent : a) L'Union fournira à l'Organisation des Nations Unies un rapport de gestion annuel ; b) L'Union donnera suite, dans toute la mesure du possible, à toute demande de rapports spéciaux,
d'études ou d'informations que l'Organisation des Nations Unies pourrait lui adresser sous réserve des dispositions de l'article XI du présent accord; c) L'Union donnera des avis écrits sur des questions de sa compétence qui pourraient lui être demandés par le Conseil de tutelle; d) Le Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies procédera avec le Directeur du Bureau international de l'Union , à la demande de celui-ci, à des échanges de vues susceptibles de fournir à l'Union des informations présentant pour elle un intérêt particulier.
ARTICLE VI.
Assistance à l'Organisation des Nations Unies. 1 . - L'Union convient de coopérer avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies, ses organes principaux et subsidiaires, et de leur prêter son concours dans la mesure compatible avec les dispositions de la Convention postale universelle. 2. En ce qui concerne les Membres de l'Organisation des Nations Unies , l'Union reconnaît que, conformément aux dispositions de l'Article 103 de la Charte, aucune disposition de la Convention postale universelle ou de ses Arrangements connexes ne peut être invoquée comme faisant obstacle ou apportant une limitation quelconque à l'observation par un Etat de ses obligations envers l'Organisation des Nations Unies.
ARTICLE VII.
Arrangement concernant le personnel.
L'Organisation des Nations Unies et l'Union coopéreront, dans la mesure nécessaire, pour assurer autant d'uniformité que possible aux conditions d'emploi du personnel et éviter la concurrence dans son recrutement.
ARTICLE VIII.
Services de statistiques.
1. L'Organisation des Nations Unies et l'Union conviennent de coopérer en vue d'assurer la plus grande efficacité et l'usage le plus étendu des informations et des données statistiques.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3207

2. L'Union reconnaît que l'Organisation des Nations Unies constitue l'organisme central chargé de recueillir, analyser, publier, unifier et améliorer les statistiques servant aux buts généraux des organisations internationales.
3. L'Organisation des Nations Unies reconnaît que l'Union est l'organisme qualifié pour recueillir, analyser, publier, unifier et améliorer les statistiques relevant de son domaine propre, sans préjudice de l'intérêt que l'Organisation des Nations Unies peut avoir à ces statistiques, en tant qu'elles sont essentielles à la réalisation de son propre but et au développement des statistiques à travers le monde.
ARTICLE IX.
Services administratifs et techniques.
1. L'Organisation des Nations Unies et l'Union reconnaissent que, afin d'employer au mieux leur personnel et leurs ressources, il est souhaitable d'éviter la création de services qui se font concurrence ou font double emploi.
2. - L'Organisation des Nations Unies et l'Union prendront toutes dispositions utiles pour l'enregistrement et le dépôt des documents officiels.
ARTICLE X.
Dispositions budgétaires .
Le budget annuel de l'Union sera communiqué à l'Organisation des Nations Unies et l'Assemblée générale aura la faculté de faire à son sujet des recommandations au Congrès de l'Union.
ARTICLE XI.
Couverture des frais de services spéciaux.
Si l'Union avait à faire face à des dépenses extraordinaires importantes, en suite de rapports spéciaux, d'études ou d'informations demandées par l'Organisation des Nations Unies en vertu de l'article V ou de toute autre disposition du présent accord, un échange de vues aurait lieu pour déterminer la manière la plus équitable de couvrir ces dépenses.
ARTICLE XII.
Accords entre institutions.
L'Union informera le Conseil de la nature et de la portée de tout accord qu'elle conclurait avec une autre institution spécialisée ou avec toute autre organisation intergouvernementale ; en outre, elle informera le Conseil de la préparation de tels accords.
ARTICLE XIII.
Liaison. 1. - En convenant des dispositions ci-dessus, l'Organisation des Nations Unies et l'Union expriment l'espoir qu'elles contribueront à assurer une liaison efficace entre les deux organisations. Elles affirment leur intention de prendre d'un commun accord les mesures nécessaires à cet effet. 2. - Les dispositions relatives aux liaisons prévues dans le présent accord s'appliqueront, dans la mesure souhaitable, aux relations de l'Union avec l'Organisation des Nations Unies y compris ses services annexes et régionaux.
ARTICLE XIV.
Exécution de l'accord.
Le Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies et le Président de la Commission exécutive et de liaison de l'Union peuvent conclure tous arrangements complémentaires, en vue d'appliquer le présent accord, qui peuvent paraître souhaitables à la lumière de l'expérience des deux organisations.

3208

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE XV. Entrée en vigueur.
Le présent accord est annexé à la Convention postale universelle conclue à Paris en 1947. Il entrera en vigueur après approbation par l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies et au plus tôt en même temps que cette Convention.
ARTICLE XVI. Revision .

Après un préavis de six mois donné par l'une ou l'autre des parties, le présent accord pourra être revisé par voie d'entente entre l'Organisation des Nations Unies et l'Union.

Paris, le 4 juillet 1947.

(Signé) J. J. LE MOUËL Président du XII Congrès de l'Union postale universelle.

(Signé) JAN PAPANEK Président par intérim du Comité du
Conseil économique et social chargé des négociations avec les institutions
spécialisées.

1 62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3209

Table des articles du
REGLEMENT D'EXÉCUTION DE LA CONVENTION

TITRE I.

Dispositions générales.

CHAPITRE UNIQUE.

Art. 101. 102. 103. 104. 105. 106.

Transit en dépêches closes et transit à découvert. Echange en dépêches closes. Acheminement des correspondances. Pays éloignés. Fixation des équivalents. Timbres-poste et empreintes d'affranchissement.

TITRE II.

Conditions d'acceptation des objets de correspondance.

CHAPITRE I.

Dispositions applicables à toutes les catégories d'envois .

Art. 107. 108. 109. 110. 111. 112.

Conditionnement et adresse. Envois expédiés en franchise postale. Envois poste restante. Envois sous enveloppe à panneau. Envois soumis au contrôle douanier. Envois francs de droits.

CHAPITRE II.
Dispositions spéciales applicables à chaque catégorie d'envois. Art. 113. Lettres.
114. Cartes postales simples. 115. Cartes postales avec réponse payée. 116. Papiers d'affaires. 117. Imprimés. 118. Objets assimilés aux imprimés. 119. Imprimés. Annotations et annexes autorisées. 120. Imprimés. Conditionnement des envois. 121. Objets assimilés aux impressions en relief à l'usage des aveugles. 122. Echantillons . Annotations autorisées. 123. Echantillons. Conditionnement des envois. 124. Objets assimilés aux échantillons.

3210

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Art. 125. Objets groupés. 126. Petits paquets. 127. Envois Phonopost».

TITRE III.

Envois recommandés. Avis de réception.

CHAPITRE UNIQUE.

Art. 128. 129. 130. 131.

Envois recommandés. Avis de réception. Avis de réception demandé postérieurement au dépôt. Envois à remettre en main propre.

TITRE IV.
Opérations au départ et à l'arrivée .
CHAPITRE UNIQUE.
Art. 132. Application du timbre à date. 133. Envois exprès. 134. Envois non affranchis ou insuffisamment affranchis. 135. Renvoi des bulletins d'affranchissement. Récupération des droits avancés. 136. Envois réexpédiés. 137. Enveloppes de réexpédition et enveloppes collectrices . 138. Envois tombés en rebut. 139. Retrait. Modification d'adresse. 140. Réclamations . Envois ordinaires. 141. Réclamations. Envois recommandés. 142. Demandes de renseignements. 143. Réclamations et demandes de renseignements concernant des envois déposés dans un autre Pays. 144. Emploi de timbres-poste présumés frauduleux ou d'empreintes contrefaites de machines à affranchir ou de presses d'imprimerie.

TITRE V.

Echange des envois .

CHAPITRE UNIQUE.

Art. 145. 146. 147. 148. 149. 150. 151.

Feuilles d'avis. Transmission des envois recommandés. Transmission des envois exprès. Confection des dépêches. Remise des dépêches. Vérification des dépêches. Renvoi des sacs vides.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3211

TITRE VI.

Dispositions concernant les frais de transit .

CHAPITRE I.

Opérations de statistique.

Art. 152. 153. 154. 155. 156.
157. 158.
159. 160.

Statistique des frais de transit. Confection et désignation des dépêches closes pendant la période de statistique. Constatation du nombre de sacs et du poids des dépêches closes.
Confection des relevés des dépêches closes. Liste des dépêches closes échangées en transit. Dépêches closes échangées avec des bâtiments de guerre. Bulletin de transit.
Dérogations aux articles 154, 155 et 158. Services extraordinaires.

CHAPITRE II.
Comptabilité. Règlement des comptes. Art. 161. Compte des frais de transit.
162. Décompte général annuel . Intervention du Bureau international. 163. Liquidation des frais de transit.

TITRE VII.

Dispositions diverses.

CHAPITRE UNIQUE.

Art. 164. 165. 166. 167. 168.
169. 170.

Coupons-réponse internationaux. Cartes d'identité postales.
Dépêches échangées avec des bâtiments de guerre . Bulletins d'affranchissement. Décompte des frais de douane, etc. Formules à l'usage du public. Délai de garde des documents. Adresse télégraphique.

TITRE VIII.
Bureau international.
CHAPITRE UNIQUE.
Art. 171. Congrés et Conférences. 172. Renseignements. Demandes de modification des Actes. 173. Publications. 174. Rapport annuel. 175. Langue officielle du Bureau international. 176. Coupons-réponse internationaux. Cartes d'identité postales. 177. Balance et liquidation des comptes. 178. Etablissement des comptes. 179. Balance générale. 180. Payement.

3212

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Art. 181 . Communications à adresser au Bureau international. 182. Statistiques postales. 183. Dépenses du Bureau international.

Dispositions finales. Art. 184. Mise à exécution et durée du Règlement.

Formules C1 à C 26.

Annexe.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3213

RÈGLEMENT D'EXÉCUTION DE LA CONVENTION POSTALE UNIVERSELLE
Les soussignés, vu l'article 5 de la Convention postale universelle conclue à Paris, le 5 juillet 1947, ont, au nom de leurs Administrations respectives, arrêté, d'un commun accord, les mesures suivantes pour assurer l'exécution de ladite Convention :
TITRE I.
Dispositions générales .
CHAPITRE UNIQUE.
ARTICLE 101 . Transit en dépêches closes et transit à découvert. 1. Les Administrations peuvent s'expédier réciproquement, par l'intermédiaire d'une ou de plusieurs d'entre elles, tant des dépêches closes que des correspondances à découvert, suivant les besoins du trafic et les convenances du service . 2. La transmission des correspondances à découvert à une Administration intermédiaire doit se limiter strictement aux cas où la confection de dépêches closes, soit pour le Pays de destination même, soit pour un Pays plus proche de ce dernier, ne se justifie pas.
ARTICLE 102.
Echange en dépêches closes . 1. -- L'échange des correspondances en dépêches closes est réglé d'un commun accord entre les Administrations intéressées. 2. Il est obligatoire de former des dépêches closes toutes les fois qu'une des Administrations intermédiaires en fait la demande, se basant sur le fait que le nombre de correspondances à découvert est de nature à entraver ses opérations. 3.  Les Administrations par l'intermédiaire desquelles des dépêches closes sont à expédier doivent être prévenues en temps opportun. 4. En cas de changement dans un service d'échange en dépêches closes établi entre deux Administrations par l'intermédiaire d'un ou de plusieurs Pays tiers, l'Administration d'origine de la dépêche en donne connaissance aux Administrations de ces Pays. 5. - S'il s'agit d'une modification dans la voie d'acheminement des dépêches, la nouvelle voie suivre doit être indiquée aux Administrations qui effectuaient précédemment le transit, tandis que l'ancienne voie est signalée, pour mémoire, aux Administrations qui assureront désormais ce transit.
ARTICLE 103.
Acheminement des correspondances. 1. Chaque Administration est obligée d'acheminer, par les voies les plus rapides qu'elle emploie pour ses propres envois, les dépêches closes et les correspondances à découvert qui lui sont livrées par une autre Administration .

3214

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2. Lorsqu'une dépêche se compose de plusieurs sacs, ceux-ci doivent, autant que possible, rester réunis et être acheminés par le même courrier.
3. Les objets de toute nature mal dirigés sont, sans aucun délai, réexpédiés sur leur destination par la voie la plus prompte.
4. L'Administration du Pays d'origine a la faculté d'indiquer la voie à suivre par les dépêches closes qu'elle expédie, pourvu que l'emploi de cette voie n'entraîne pas, pour une Administration intermédiaire, des frais spéciaux. Sous la même réserve, les Administrations intervenant dans le transport doivent tenir compte de la voie à suivre portée par l'expéditeur sur les envois qui leur sont transmis à découvert.
5. 11 Les Administrations qui usent de la faculté de percevoir des taxes supplémentaires, en représentation des frais extraordinaires afférents à certaines voies, sont libres de ne pas diriger par ces voies les correspondances non ou insuffisamment affranchies.
ARTICLE 104.
Pays éloignés . 1. - Sont considérés comme Pays éloignés les Pays entre lesquels la durée des transports par la voie de terre ou de mer la plus rapide est de plus de dix jours, ainsi que ceux entre lesquels la fréquence moyenne des courriers est inférieure à deux voyages par mois. 2. Sont assimilés aux Pays éloignés, en ce qui concerne les délais prévus par la Convention et les Arrangements, les Pays de très grande étendue ou dont les voies de communication intérieures sont peu développées, pour les questions où ces facteurs jouent un rôle prépondérant. 3. - Le Bureau international dresse la liste des Pays visés aux §§ 1 et 2.
ARTICLE 105.
Fixation des équivalents.
1. -- Les Administrations fixent les équivalents des taxes et droits prévus par la Convention et les Arrangements après entente avec l'Administration des postes suisses, à laquelle il appartient de les faire notifier par l'intermédiaire du Bureau international. La même procédure est suivie en cas de changement d'équivalents.
2. -- Les équivalents ou les changements d'équivalents ne peuvent entrer en vigueur que le premier d'un mois et, au plus tôt, quinze jours après leur notification par le Bureau international.
3. Ce Bureau dresse un tableau indiquant, pour chaque Pays, les équivalents des taxes et droits mentionnés au § 1, et renseignant, le cas échéant, sur le pourcentage de la majoration ou de la réduction de taxe appliquée en vertu de l'article II du Protocole final de la Convention.
4. Les fractions monétaires résultant du complément de taxe applicable aux correspondances insuffisamment affranchies peuvent être arrondies par les Administrations qui en effectuent la perception. La somme à ajouter de ce chef ne peut excéder la valeur de 5 centimes.
5. Chaque Administration notifie directement au Bureau international l'équivalent fixé par elle pour l'indemnité prévue à l'article 59 de la Convention.
ARTICLE 106.
Timbres-poste et empreintes d'affranchissement. 1 . - Les timbres-poste représentant les taxes-type de l'Union ou leurs équivalents dans la monnaie de chaque Pays sont confectionnés dans les couleurs suivantes : en bleu, le timbre représentant la taxe d'une lettre ordinaire de port simple ; en rouge, le timbre représentant la taxe d'une carte postale ordinaire; en vert, le timbre représentant la taxe d'un imprimé ordinaire de port simple. 2. -- Les empreintes produites par les machines à affranchir doivent être de couleur rouge vif, quelle que soit la valeur qu'elles représentent. 3. - Les timbres-poste et les empreintes d'affranchissement doivent porter, autant que possible en caractères latins, l'indication du Pays d'origine et mentionner leur valeur d'affranchissement d'après

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3215

le tableau des équivalents adoptés . L'indication du nombre d'unités ou de fractions de l'unité monétaire, servant à exprimer cette valeur, est faite en chiffres arabes.
4. ww En ce qui concerne les imprimés affranchis au moyen d'empreintes obtenues à la presse d'imprimerie ou par un autre procédé d'impression (article 50 de la Convention), les indications du Pays d'origine et de la valeur d'affranchissement peuvent être remplacées par le nom du bureau d'origine et la mention Taxe perçue » , « Port payé » ou une expression analogue . Cette mention peut être libellée en français ou dans la langue du Pays d'origine ; elle peut aussi revêtir une forme abrégée, par exemple «T. P.» ou « P. P.» . Dans tous les cas, l'indication adoptée doit être encadrée ou soulignée d'un fort trait.
5. Les timbres-poste commémoratifs ou de charité, pour lesquels un supplément de taxe est à payer indépendamment de la valeur d'affranchissement, doivent être confectionnés de façon à éviter tout doute au sujet de cette valeur.
6. Les timbres-poste peuvent être marqués à l'emporte-pièce de perforations distinctives selon les conditions fixées par l'Administration qui les a émis.
TITRE II.
Conditions d'acceptation des objets de correspondance .
CHAPITRE I.
Dispositions applicables à toutes les catégories d'envois.
ARTICLE 107.
Conditionnement et adresse. 1. - Les Administrations doivent recommander au public : a) de libeller l'adresse en caractères latins et de la mettre dans le sens de la longueur de façon à ménager la place nécessaire pour les mentions ou étiquettes de service ; b) d'indiquer en capitales les noms de la localité et du Pays de destination; c) d'indiquer l'adresse d'une manière précise et complète, afin que l'acheminement de l'envoi et sa remise au destinataire puissent avoir lieu sans recherches ; d) d'appliquer les timbres-poste ou les empreintes d'affranchissement à l'angle droit supérieur du côté de la suscription ; e) d'indiquer le nom et le domicile de l'expéditeur, soit au recto et du côté gauche de façon à ne nuire ni à la clarté de l'adresse, ni à l'application des mentions ou étiquettes de service, soit au verso ; f) d'utiliser pour les envois de toute nature des enveloppes dont les dimensions ne soient pas inférieures à 10 cm. en longueur et 7 cm. en largeur; g) de conditionner solidement leurs envois, particulièrement s'ils sont destinés à des Pays éloignés ; h) d'ajouter le mot « Lettre» du côté de l'adresse des lettres qui, en raison de leur volume ou de leur conditionnement, pourraient être prises pour d'autres envois ; i) en ce qui concerne les envois expédiés à la taxe réduite , d'indiquer, par des annotations telles que «Papiers d'affaires», « Imprimés », «Echantillon », « Petit paquet», etc., la catégorie à laquelle ils appartiennent. 2. Les envois de toute nature, dont le côté réservé à l'adresse a été divisé, en tout ou en partie, en plusieurs cases destinées à recevoir des adresses successives, ne sont pas admis. 3. Les timbres non postaux et les vignettes de bienfaisance ou autres susceptibles d'être confondus avec les timbres-poste, ne peuvent être appliqués du côté de la suscription . Il en est de même des empreintes de timbres qui pourraient être confondues avec les empreintes d'affranchissement.

3216

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 108.
Envois expédiés en franchise postale. 1. Les correspondances du service postal expédiées en franchise de port doivent porter, à l'angle gauche supérieur du recto, la mention « Service des postes» ou une mention analogue. 2. Les correspondances jouissant de la franchise postale prévue à l'article 52, §§ 2 à 4, doivent porter à l'angle gauche supérieur du recto, selon le cas, la mention Service des prisonniers de guerre» ou « Service des prisonniers civils» . 3. Les indications prevues aux §§ 1 et 2 peuvent être suivies d'une traduction dans une autre langue.
ARTICLE 109.
Envois poste restante.
L'adresse des envois expédiés poste restante doit indiquer le nom du destinataire. L'emploi d'initiales, de chiffres, de simples prénoms, de noms supposés ou de marques conventionnelles quelconques n'est pas admis pour ces envois.
ARTICLE 110.
Envois sous enveloppe à panneau.
1. Les envois sous enveloppe à panneau transparent sont admis aux conditions suivantes: a) le panneau doit être disposé parallèlement à la plus grande dimension, de façon que l'adresse
du destinataire apparaisse dans le même sens et que l'application du timbre à date ne soit pas entravée ; b) la transparence du panneau doit assurer une parfaite lisibilité de l'adresse, même à la lumière artificielle, et ne pas empêcher l'application d'une écriture ; les enveloppes à panneau dont la partie vitrifiée provoque des reflets à la lumière artificielle sont exclues ; c) seuls les nom et adresse du destinataire doivent apparaître à travers le panneau ; le contenu de l'enveloppe doit être plié de façon que l'adresse ne puisse se trouver masquée, en tout ou en partie, par suite de glissement ; d) l'adresse doit être indiquée, d'une façon bien lisible, à l'encre, à la machine à écrire ou par un procédé d'impression, avec des caractères de couleur foncée ; les envois dont l'adresse est écrite au crayon ou au crayon-encre ne sont pas admis. 2. Les envois sous enveloppe entièrement transparente ou à panneau ouvert ne sont pas admis.
ARTICLE 111.
Envois soumis au contrôle douanier. 1. - Les envois à soumettre au contrôle douanier doivent être revêtus, au recto, d'une étiquette verte, conforme au modèle C 1 ci-annexé. En ce qui concerne les petits paquets, l'apposition de cette étiquette est obligatoire dans tous les cas. 2. Si le Pays de destination l'exige ou si l'expéditeur le préfère, les envois visés au § 1 sont, en outre, accompagnés de déclarations en douane séparées, conformes au modèle C 2 ci-annexé et au nombre prescrit ; ces déclarations sont reliées à l'envoi extérieurement et d'une manière solide par un croisé de ficelle ou insérées dans l'envoi même. Dans ce cas, la partie supérieure de l'étiquette C 1 est seule apposée sur l'envoi. 3. -- En ce qui concerne les imprimés et les envois de sérums et de vaccins, l'absence de l'étiquette C 1 ne peut entraîner le renvoi de ces objets au bureau d'origine. 4. Les Administrations n'assument aucune responsabilité du chef des déclarations en douane, sous quelque forme qu'elles soient faites.
ARTICLE 112.
Envois francs de droits.
1. - Les envois à remettre aux destinataires francs de tous droits doivent porter sur le recto l'en-tête très apparent « Franc de droits» ou une mention analogue dans la langue du Pays d'origine.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3217

Ces envois sont pourvus, du côté de la suscription, d'une étiquette de couleur jaune portant également, en gros caractères, l'indication « Franc de droits ».
2. - Tout envoi expédié franc de droits est accompagné d'un bulletin d'affranchissement conforme au modèle C 3 ci-annexé, confectionné en carton de couleur jaune et dont le recto est rempli par le bureau expéditeur. Le bulletin d'affranchissement est solidement attaché à l'envoi.
CHAPITRE II.
Dispositions spéciales applicables à chaque catégorie d'envois .
ARTICLE 113.
Lettres .
Aucune condition de forme ou de fermeture n'est exigé pour les lettres, sous réserve de l'observation des prescriptions de l'article 110. La place nécessaire au recto pour l'affranchissement, l'adresse et les mentions ou étiquettes de service doit être laissée entièrement libre.
ARTICLE 114.
Cartes postales simples.
1. Les cartes postales doivent être confectionnées en carton ou en papier assez consistant pour ne pas entraver la manipulation.
2. Sont assimilées aux cartes postales les feuilles de papier repliées dont les deux faces internes ont été collées complètement l'une sur l'autre, de sorte que d'autres objets ne risquent pas de s'y fourvoyer.
3. Les cartes postales doivent porter, en tête du recto, le titre « Carte postale » en français ou l'équivalent de ce titre dans une autre langue. Ce titre n'est pas obligatoire pour les cartes émanant de l'industrie privée.
4. Les cartes postales doivent être expédiées à découvert, c'est-à-dire sans bande ni enveloppe. 5. La moitié droite au moins du recto est réservée à l'adresse du destinataire et aux mentions ou étiquettes de service ; les timbres-poste ou empreintes d'affranchissement doivent être appliqués au recto et, autant que possible, sur la partie droite de la carte. L'expéditeur dispose du verso et de la partie gauche du recto, sous réserve des dispositions du § 6 ci-après. 6. Il est interdit de joindre ou d'attacher aux cartes postales des échantillons de marchandises ou des objets analogues. Toutefois, des vignettes, des photographies, des timbres de toute espèce, des étiquettes et des coupures de toute sorte, en papier ou autre matière très mince, de même que des bandes d'adresse ou des feuilles à replier, peuvent y être collés, à condition que ces objets ne soient pas de nature à altérer le caractère des cartes postales et qu'ils soient complètement adhérents à la carte. Ces objets ne peuvent être collés que sur le verso ou sur la partie gauche du recto des cartes postales, sauf les bandes ou étiquettes d'adresse qui peuvent occuper tout le recto. Quant aux timbres de toute espèce, susceptibles d'être confondus avec les timbres d'affranchissement, ils ne sont admis qu'au verso. 7. Les cartes postales ne remplissant pas les conditions prescrites pour cette catégorie d'envois sont traitées comme lettres, à l'exception, toutefois, de celles dont l'irrégularité résulte seulement de l'application de l'affranchissement au verso. Ces dernières sont considérées comme non affranchies et traitées en conséquence, selon la catégorie à laquelle elles appartiennent d'après leur texte ou leurs dimensions.
ARTICLE 115.
Cartes postales avec réponse payée. 1. Les cartes postales avec réponse payée doivent présenter au recto, en langue française, comme titre sur la première partie : «Carte postale avec réponse payée» ; sur la seconde partie : « Carte postale-réponse. » Les deux parties doivent d'ailleurs remplir, chacune, les autres conditions imposées

3218

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

à la carte postale simple ; elles sont repliées l'une sur l'autre de façon que le pli forme le bord supérieur et ne peuvent être fermées d'une manière quelconque .
2. L'adresse de la carte-réponse doit se trouver à l'intérieur de l'envoi. 3. Il est loisible à l'expéditeur d'indiquer son nom et son adresse au recto de la partie " Réponse». 4. - L'expéditeur est également autorisé à faire imprimer au verso de la carte-réponse un questionnaire destiné à être rempli par le destinataire ; celui-ci peut, en outre, renvoyer la partie « Demande» adhérente à la partie « Réponses . Dans ce cas, l'adresse de la carte « Demande» doit être barrée et se trouver à l'intérieur de l'envoi.
5. L'affranchissement de la partie « Réponse» au moyen de timbres-poste du Pays qui a émis la carte n'est valable que si les deux parties de la carte postale avec réponse payée sont parvenues adhérentes du Pays d'origine et si la partie « Réponse» est expédiée du Pays où elle est parvenue par la poste à destination dudit Pays d'origine. Si ces conditions ne sont pas remplies, elle est traitée comme carte postale non affranchie.
ARTICLE 116.
Papiers d'affaires.
1. - Sont considérés comme papiers d'affaires, à condition qu'ils n'aient pas le caractère d'une correspondance actuelle et personnelle, toutes les pièces et tous les documents écrits ou dessinés en tout ou partie, tels que les correspondances -- lettres ouvertes et cartes postales de date ancienne qui ont déjà atteint leur but primitif, et leurs copies, les pièces de procédure, les actes de tout genre dressés par les officiers ministériels, les lettres de voiture ou connaissements, les factures, certains documents des compagnies d'assurance, les copies ou extraits d'actes sous seing privé écrits sur papier timbré ou non timbré, les partitions ou feuilles de musique manuscrites, les manuscrits d'ouvrages ou de journaux expédiés isolément , les devoirs originaux et corrigés d'élèves, à l'exclusion de toute indication ne se rapportant pas directement à l'exécution du travail.
2. Ces documents peuvent être accompagnés de fiches de rappel ou bordereaux d'envoi portant les mentions suivantes ou des indications analogues : énumération des pièces composant l'envoi, références à une correspondance échangée entre l'expéditeur et le destinataire, telles que : « Annexe à notre lettre du à M ... Notre référence ... Références du client
3. - Les correspondances de date ancienne peuvent être munies des timbres-poste oblitérés ou des empreintes qui ont servi à leur affranchissement primitif.
4. - Sont également considérés comme papiers d'affaires, même quand ils revêtent le caractère d'une correspondance actuelle et personnelle, tous les envois contenant des objets de correspondance échangés entre élèves d'écoles, à condition que ces envois empruntent l'intermédiaire des directeurs des écoles intéressées.
5. Les papiers d'affaires sont soumis, en ce qui concerne la forme et le conditionnement, aux dispositions prescrites à l'article 120 ci-après pour les imprimés.

...

ARTICLE 117.

Imprimés .

1. Sont considérés comme imprimés, les journaux et ouvrages périodiques, les livres, les

brochures, les papiers de musique, les cartes de visite, les cartes-adresse, les épreuves d'imprimerie,

les gravures, les photographies et les albums contenant des photographies, les images, les dessins, plans ,

cartes géographiques, patrons à découper, catalogues, prospectus, annonces et avis divers, imprimés,

gravés, lithographiés ou autographiés, et, en général, toutes les impressions ou reproductions obtenues

sur papier ou autre matière assimilable au papier, sur parchemin ou sur carton, au moyen de la typo-

graphie, de la gravure, de la lithographie et de l'autographie, ou de tout autre procédé mécanique

facile à reconnaître, hormis le décalque, les timbres à caractères mobiles ou non et la machine à écrire.

2.

La taxe des imprimés

n'est

pas applicable

aux

imprimés qui portent des

signes

quelconques

susceptibles de constituer un langage conventionnel, ni, sauf les exceptions explicitement autorisées

par les articles 118 et 119 ci-après, à ceux dont le texte a été modifié après tirage.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3219

3. -- Les films cinématographiques, les disques pour gramophones ainsi que les papiers perforés destinés à être adaptés à des instruments de musique automatiques ne sont pas admis au tarif des imprimés. Il en est de même des articles de papeterie proprement dits, dès l'instant où il apparaît clairement que la partie imprimée n'est pas l'essentiel de l'objet .
4. - Les cartes portant le titre : « Carte postale » ou l'équivalent de ce titre dans une langue quelconque sont admises au tarif des imprimés, pourvu qu'elles répondent aux conditions générales applicables aux imprimés. Celles qui ne remplissent pas ces conditions sont traitées comme cartes postales ou éventuellement comme lettres, par application des dispositions de l'article 114, § 7.
ARTICLE 118.
Objets assimilés aux imprimés .
Sont assimilées aux imprimés, en tant qu'elles sont déposées dans les conditions prescrites par les règlements intérieurs de l'Administration d'origine, les reproductions, par un procédé mécanique de polygraphie, chromographie, etc., d'une copie-type faite à la plume ou à la machine à écrire. Chacune de ces reproductions peut recevoir les annotations autorisées pour les imprimés.
ARTICLE 119.
Imprimés. Annotations et annexes autorisées .
1 . Il est permis, à l'extérieur et à l'intérieur de tous les envois d'imprimés : a) d'indiquer les nom , qualité, profession, raison sociale et adresse de l'expéditeur et du destina-
taire, la date d'expédition, la signature, le numéro d'appel au téléphone et le réseau téléphonique de raccordement, l'adresse et le code télégraphiques, le compte courant postal ou bancaire de l'expéditeur ainsi qu'un numéro d'ordre ou d'immatriculation se rapportant exclusivement à l'envoi ; b) de corriger les fautes d'impression ; c) de barrer, de souligner ou d'encadrer, au moyen de traits, certains mots ou certaines parties du texte imprimé, à moins que ces opérations ne soient faites dans le dessein de constituer une correspondance . 2. Il est, en outre, permis d'indiquer ou d'ajouter: a) sur les avis concernant les départs et les arrivées des navires : les dates et heures des départs et arrivées ainsi que les noms des navires et des ports de départ, d'escale et d'arrivée ; b) sur les avis de passage : le nom du voyageur, la date, l'heure et le nom de la localité par laquelle il compte passer ainsi que l'endroit où il descend ; c) sur les bulletins de commande, de souscription ou d'offre, relatifs à des ouvrages de librairie, livres, journaux, gravures, morceaux de musique : les ouvrages et le nombre des exemplaires demandés ou offerts, le prix de ces ouvrages ainsi que des annotations représentant des éléments constitutifs du prix, le mode de payement, l'édition, les noms des auteurs et des éditeurs, le numéro du catalogue et les mots « broché», « cartonné» ou « relie»; d) sur les formules utilisées par les services de prêts des bibliothèques : les titres des ouvrages, le nombre des exemplaires demandés ou envoyés, les noms des auteurs et des éditeurs, les numéros du catalogue, le nombre de jours accordés pour la lecture, le nom de la personne désirant consulter l'ouvrage ainsi que d'autres indications sommaires se référant aux ouvrages en question ; e) sur les cartes illustrées, les cartes de visite imprimées ainsi que sur les cartes de Noël et de nouvel an des souhaits, félicitations, remerciements, compliments de condoléance ou autres formules de politesse exprimés en cinq mots ou au moyen de cinq initiales conventionnelles, au maximum ; f) sur les épreuves d'imprimerie : les changements et additions qui se rapportent à la correction, à la forme et à l'impression ainsi que des mentions telles que « Bon à tirer », « Vu-Bon à tirer» ou toutes autres analogues se rapportant à la confection de l'ouvrage. En cas de manque de place, les additions peuvent être faites sur des feuilles spéciales ; 9) sur les images de mode, les cartes géographiques, etc.: les couleurs ; 68706 0-51- PT. III- -39

3220

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

h) sur les listes de prix courants, les offres d'annonces, les cotes de bourse et de marché, les circulaires de commerce et les prospectus : des chiffres ; toutes autres annotations représentant des éléments constitutifs des prix ;
i) sur les livres, brochures, journaux, photographies, gravures, papiers de musique et, en général, sur toutes les productions littéraires ou artistiques imprimées, gravées, lithographiées ou autographiées: une dédicace consistant en un simple hommage et, sur les photographies ou gravures, une légende explicative très succincte ainsi que d'autres indications sommaires se référant à la photographie ou à la gravure elle-même ;
j) sur les passages découpés de journaux et publications périodiques : le titre, la date, le numéro et l'adresse de la publication dont l'article est extrait ;
k) sur les avis de changement d'adresse : la nouvelle adresse de l'expéditeur et la date à laquelle Je changement prend cours ou encore l'ancienne adresse et la date à laquelle le changement a été réalisé. 3. Les additions et les corrections prévues aux §§ 1 et 2 peuvent être faites à la main ou par
un procédé mécanique quelconque. 4. Il est, enfin, permis de joindre:
a) aux épreuves d'imprimerie corrigées ou non : le manuscrit s'y rapportant ; b) aux envois des catégories mentionnées sous § 2, lettre i): la facture ouverte se rapportant à
l'objet envoyé, réduite à ses énonciations constitutives ; c) aux envois visés à l'article 36, §§ 3 et 4, de la Convention, une formule de versement portant la désigna-
tion imprimée d'un compte courant postal; d) à tous les imprimés : une carte, une enveloppe ou une bande, munie de l'adresse de l'expéditeur
de l'envoi et affranchie pour le retour au moyen de timbres-poste du Pays de destination de l'envoi.
ARTICLE 120.
Imprimés. Conditionnement des envois.
1. Les imprimés doivent être, soit placés sous bande, sur rouleau, entre des cartons, dans un étui ouvert ou dans une enveloppe non fermée munie, s'il y a lieu, de fermoirs faciles à enlever et à replacer et n'offrant aucun danger, soit entourés d'une ficelle facile à dénouer.
2. Les imprimés présentant la forme et la consistance d'une carte peuvent être expédiés à découvert sans bande, enveloppe ou lien . Le même mode d'expédition est admis pour les imprimés pliés de façon qu'ils ne puissent se déplier pendant le transport.
3. -- La moitié droite au moins du recto des imprimés expédiés sous forme de cartes, y compris les cartes illustrées bénéficiant de la taxe réduite, est réservée à l'adresse du destinataire et aux mentions ou étiquettes de service. Les timbres-poste ou empreintes d'affranchissement doivent être appliqués au recto et, autant que possible, sur la partie droite de la carte.
4. -- Dans tous les cas, les envois doivent être conditionnés de façon que d'autres objets ne risquent pas de s'y fourvoyer.
ARTICLE 121.
Objets assimilés aux impressions en relief à l'usage des aveugles .
Les clichés portant des signes de la cécographie sont assimilés aux impressions en relief à l'usage des aveugles. Il en est de même des enregistrements sonores destinés uniquement à l'usage des aveugles, à condition qu'ils soient expédiés par un institut pour aveugles officiellement reconnu ou adressés à un tel institut.
ARTICLE 122.
Echantillons . Annotations autorisées.
Il est permis d'indiquer à la main ou par un procédé mécanique, à l'extérieur ou à l'intérieur des envois d'échantillons et, dans ce dernier cas, sur l'échantillon même ou sur une feuille spéciale y relative, les nom, qualité, profession, raison sociale et adresse de l'expéditeur et du destinataire ainsi que la date d'expédition, la signature, le numéro d'appel au téléphone et le réseau téléphonique de raccor-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3221

dement, l'adresse et le code télégraphiques, le compte courant postal ou bancaire de l'expéditeur, une marque de fabrique ou de marchand, une indication sommaire relative au fabricant et au fournisseur de la marchandise ou concernant la personne à laquelle l'échantillon est destiné, ainsi que des numéros d'ordre ou d'immatriculation, des prix et toutes autres annotations représentant des éléments constitutifs des prix , des indications relatives au poids, au métrage et à la dimension ainsi qu'à la quantité disponible et celles qui sont nécessaires pour préciser la provenance et la nature de la marchandise.
ARTICLE 123.
Echantillons . Conditionnement des envois.
1. Les échantillons de marchandises doivent être placés dans des sacs, des boîtes ou des enveloppes mobiles.
2. Les objets en verre ou autres matières fragiles, les envois deliquides, huiles, corps gras, poudres sèches, colorantes ou non, ainsi que les envois qui contiennent des abeilles vivantes, des sangsues, des graines de vers à soie ou des parasites visés à l'article 49, § 1 , de la Convention sont admis au transport comme échantillons de marchandises, pourvu qu'ils soient conditionnés de la manière suivante :
a) les objets en verre ou autres matières fragiles doivent être emballés solidement (boîtes en métal, en bois ou en carton ondulé de qualité solide), de manière à prévenir tout danger pour les agents et les correspondances ;
b) les liquides, huiles et corps facilement liquéfiables doivent être insérés dans des récipients hermétiquement fermés. Chaque récipient doit être placé dans une boîte spéciale en métal, en bois résistant ou en carton ondulé de qualité solide garnie de sciure de bois, de coton ou de matière spongieuse en quantité suffisante pour absorber le liquide en cas de bris du récipient. Le couvercle de la boîte doit être fixé de manière qu'il ne puisse se détacher facilement ;
c) les corps gras difficilement liquéfiables, tels que les onguents, le savon mou , les résines, etc., ainsi que les graines de vers à soie, dont le transport offre moins d'inconvénients, doivent être enfermés sous une première enveloppe (boîte, sac en toile, parchemin, etc.), placée elle-même dans une seconde boîte en bois, en métal ou en cuir fort et épais ;
d) les poudres sèches colorantes, telles que le bleu d'aniline, etc., ne sont admises que dans des boîtes en fer-blanc résistant, placées à leur tour dans des boîtes en bois avec de la sciure entre les deux emballages. Les poudres sèches non colorantes doivent être placées dans des boîtes en métal, en bois ou en carton ; ces boîtes doivent être elles-mêmes enfermées dans un sac en toile ou en parchemin ;
e) les abeilles vivantes, les sangsues et les parasites doivent être enfermés dans des boîtes disposées de façon à éviter tout danger. 3. Les objets qui se gâteraient s'ils étaient emballés d'après les règles générales, ainsi que les
échantillons placés dans un emballage transparent permettant la vérification de leur contenu, peuvent, exceptionnellement, être admis sous un emballage hermétiquement fermé. Il en est de même pour les échantillons de produits industriels et végétaux mis à la poste sous un emballage fermé par la fabrique ou scellés par une autorité de vérification du Pays d'origine. Dans ces cas, les Administrations intéressées peuvent exiger que l'expéditeur ou le destinataire facilite la vérification du contenu, soit en ouvrant quelques-uns des envois désignés par elles, soit d'une autre manière satisfaisante.
4. Il n'est pas exigé d'emballage pour les objets d'une seule pièce, tels que pièces de bois, pièces métalliques, etc., qu'il n'est pas dans les usages du commerce d'emballer.
5. L'adresse du destinataire doit être indiquée, autant que possible, sur l'emballage ou sur l'objet lui-même. Si l'emballage ou l'objet ne se prête pas à l'inscription de l'adresse et des indications de service ou à l'application des timbres-poste, il doit être fait usage d'une étiquette volante, de préférence en parchemin, attachée solidement. Il en est de même lorsque le timbrage est susceptible de provoquer la détérioration de l'envoi.
ARTICLE 124.
Objets assimilés aux échantillons.
Sont admis au tarif des échantillons : les clichés d'imprimerie, les patrons découpés isolés, les clefs isolées, les fleurs fraîches coupées, les objets d'histoire naturelle (animaux et plantes séchés ou

3222

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

conservés, spécimens géologiques, etc.), tubes de sérum ou de vaccin et objets pathologiques rendus inoffensifs par leur mode de préparation et d'emballage. Ces objets, à l'exception des tubes de sérum et de vaccin expédiés dans un intérêt général par les laboratoires ou institutions officiellement reconnus, ne peuvent être envoyés dans un but commercial. Leur emballage doit être conforme aux prescriptions générales concernant les échantillons de marchandises.
ARTICLE 125.
Objets groupés.
1. La réunion dans un seul envoi d'objets de correspondance de catégories différentes est limitée aux papiers d'affaires, aux imprimés, à l'exception des impressions en relief à l'usage des aveugles, et aux échantillons de marchandises sous réserve :
a) que chaque objet pris isolément ne dépasse pas les limites qui lui sont applicables quant au poids et aux dimensions ;
b) que le poids total ne dépasse pas 2 kilogrammes par envoi ; c) que la taxe payée soit au moins la taxe minimum des papiers d'affaires si l'envoi contient des
papiers d'affaires, et la taxe minimum des échantillons s'il se compose d'imprimés et d'échantillons. 2. Ces dispositions ne sont applicables qu'aux objets soumis à la même taxe unitaire . Lorsqu'une Administration constate la réunion dans un même envoi d'objets passibles de taxes différentes, cet envoi est frappé pour son poids total de la taxe afférente à la catégorie dont le tarif est le plus élevé.
ARTICLE 126.
Petits paquets.
1. -- Les petits paquets sont soumis aux dispositions prescrites pour les échantillons de marchandises en ce qui concerne le conditionnement et l'emballage.
2. Il est permis d'y insérer une facture ouverte, réduite à ses énonciations constitutives, ainsi qu'une simple copie de la suscription de l'objet avec mention de l'adresse de l'expéditeur.
3. Les nom et adresse des expéditeurs doivent figurer à l'extérieur des envois.
ARTICLE 127.
Envois «Phonopost >>.
1. Sous réserve des dispositions expressément prévues pour les envois « Phonopost», ceux-ci sont régis par les prescriptions applicables aux lettres.
2. Les disques phonographiques expédiés comme envois « Phonopost» doivent être protégés par une enveloppe solide non fermée.
3. -- L'expéditeur doit mentionner en caractères très apparents, sur le recto de l'enveloppe, outre les indications ordinaires, le mot « Phonopost ». Il est loisible d'imprimer au recto, en une ou plusieurs langues, une notice relative à la manière de reproduction sonore de l'enregistrement du disque.
4. Il est permis d'insérer dans l'envoi, convenablement protégées, des aiguilles devant servir à obtenir la reproduction de l'enregistrement.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3223

TITRE III.
Envois recommandés . Avis de réception.
CHAPITRE UNIQUE.
ARTICLE 128.
Envois recommandés. 1 . --- Les envois recommandés doivent porter au recto l'en-tête très apparent « Recommandé» ou une mention analogue dans la langue du Pays d'origine. 2.- Sauf les exceptions ci-après, aucune condition spéciale de forme, de fermeture ou de libellé de l'adresse n'est exigée pour ces envois. 3. - Les objets de correspondance qui portent une adresse écrite au crayon ou constituée par des initiales ne sont pas admis à la recommandation. Toutefois, l'adresse des envois autres que ceux qui sont expédiés sous enveloppe à panneau transparent peut être écrite au crayon-encre. 4. Les envois recommandés doivent être revêtus, à l'angle gauche de la suscription , d'une étiquette conforme au modèle C 4 ci-annexé, avec l'indication en caractères latins de la lettre « R», du nom du bureau d'origine et du numéro d'ordre de l'envoi. Toutefois, il est permis aux Administrations dont le régime intérieur s'oppose actuellement à l'emploi des étiquettes d'ajourner la mise à exécution de cette mesure et d'employer pour la désignation des envois recommandés des timbres «Recommandé» ou « R», à côté desquels doivent figurer l'indication du bureau d'origine et celle du numéro d'ordre. Ces timbres doivent être apposés également à l'angle gauche de la suscription . 5. Aucun numéro d'ordre ne doit être porté au recto des objets recommandés par les Administrations intermédiaires.
ARTICLE 129.
Avis de réception.
1. Les envois dont l'expéditeur demande un avis de réception doivent porter, au recto, l'annotation très apparente « Avis de réception» ou l'empreinte d'un timbre « A. R. ». L'expéditeur doit indiquer à l'extérieur de l'envoi son nom et son adresse en caractères latins.
2. Ils sont accompagnés d'une formule de la consistance d'une carte postale, de couleur rouge clair, conforme au modèle C 5 ci-annexé; cette formule est établie par le bureau d'origine ou par tout autre bureau à désigner par l'Administration expéditrice et réunie à l'objet extérieurement et d'une manière solide. Si elle ne parvient pas au bureau de destination, celui-ci dresse d'office un nouvel avis de réception.
3. Il n'est pas tenu compte du poids de la formule de l'avis de réception pour le calcul de la taxe d'affranchissement.
- Le bureau de destination renvoie la formule C 5, dûment remplie, dans le courrier ordinaire, à découvert et en franchise de port, à l'adresse de l'expéditeur de l'objet .
5. - - Lorsque l'expéditeur réclame un avis de réception qui ne lui est pas parvenu dans les délais voulus, il est procédé conformément aux règles tracées à l'article 130 ci-après. Dans ce cas, il n'est pas perçu une deuxième taxe et le bureau d'origine inscrit en tête de la formule C 5 la mention Duplicata de l'avis de réception, etc.».
ARTICLE 130.
Avis de réception demandé postérieurement au dépôt.
1. Lorsque l'expéditeur demande un avis de réception postérieurement au dépôt de l'envoi, le bureau d'origine remplit une formule C 5.
2. - La formule C 5 est attachée à une réclamation C 9 mentionnée à l'article 141 ci-après ; cette réclamation, après avoir été revêtue d'un timbre-poste représentant la taxe due, est traitée selon

3224

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

les prescriptions dudit article 141, sauf que, en cas de distribution régulière de l'envoi, le bureau de destination retire la formule C 9 et renvoie la formule C 5 à l'origine de la manière prescrite à l'article 129, § 4.
3. Les dispositions particulières adoptées par les Administrations en vertu de l'article 141 ci-après, pour la transmission des réclamations d'envois recommandés, sont applicables aux demandes d'avis de réception formulées postérieurement au dépôt.
ARTICLE 131.
Envois à remettre en main propre.
1. Les envois à remettre en main propre doivent porter, soulignée en rouge, la mention « A remettre en main propres ou la mention équivalente dans une langue connue dans le Pays de destination.
2. Les Administrations sont tenues de faire deux essais de remise de ces envois.

TITRE IV.
Opérations au départ et à l'arrivée.
CHAPITRE UNIQUE,
ARTICLE 132.
Application du timbre à date. 1. -Les correspondances sont frappées au recto par le bureau d'origine d'un timbre indiquant, autant que possible en caractères latins, le lieu d'origine et la date du dépôt à la poste. Dans les localités pourvues de plusieurs bureaux de poste, le timbre doit indiquer quel est le bureau de dépôt . 2. - L'application du timbre prévu au § 1 n'est pas obligatoire pour les correspondances affranchies au moyen d'empreintes de machines à affranchir si l'indication du lieu d'origine et de la date du dépôt à la poste figure dans ces empreintes. L'application du timbre dont il s'agit n'est pas non plus exigée pour les objets à tarif réduit non recommandés, à condition que le lieu d'origine soit indiqué sur ces envois. 3. Tous les timbres-poste valables doivent être oblitérés. 4. -A moins que les Administrations n'aient prescrit l'annulation au moyen d'une griffe spéciale, les timbres-poste non oblitérés par suite d'erreur ou d'omission dans le service d'origine doivent être barrés d'un fort trait par le bureau qui constate l'irrégularité. Ces timbres ne sont en aucun cas frappés du timbre à date.
5. Les correspondances mal dirigées, sauf les objets à tarif réduit non recommandés , doivent être frappées de l'empreinte du timbre à date du bureau auquel elles sont parvenues par erreur. Cette obligation incombe non seulement aux bureaux sédentaires, mais aussi aux bureaux ambulants, dans la mesure du possible. L'empreinte doit être apposée au verso des objets quand il s'agit de lettres et au recto lorsqu'il s'agit de cartes postales.
6. Le timbrage des correspondances déposées sur les navires incombe à l'agent des postes ou à l'officier du bord chargé du service ou, à leur défaut, au bureau de poste de l'escale auquel ces correspondances sont livrées à découvert. Dans ce cas, le bureau les frappe de son timbre à date et y appose la mention « Navire», « Paquebot » ou toute autre analogue.
7. Le bureau destinataire d'une carte postale avec réponse payée peut appliquer son timbre à date du côté gauche du recto de la partie << Réponse>>.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3225

ARTICLE 133.
Envois exprès .
Les envois à remettre par exprès sont pourvus à côté de l'indication du lieu de destination, d'une étiquette imprimée, de couleur rouge foncé ou d'une inscription qui en tient lieu, portant en gros caractères le mot «Exprès» .
ARTICLE 134.
Envois non affranchis ou insuffisamment affranchis.
1. Les correspondances pour lesquelles une taxe quelconque doit être perçue postérieurement au dépôt, soit sur le destinataire, soit sur l'expéditeur, en cas de mise en rebut, sont frappées du timbre T (taxe à payer) à l'angle droit supérieur du recto ; l'indication en francs et centimes du montant à percevoir est inscrite en chiffres très lisibles, à côté de ce timbre.
2. L'application du timbre T ainsi que l'indication du montant à percevoir incombent à l'Administration d'origine ou, en cas de réexpédition ou de mise en rebut, à l'Administration réexpéditrice. Toutefois, s'il s'agit d'envois provenant de Pays qui appliquent des taxes réduites dans les relations avec l'Administration réexpéditrice, le montant à percevoir est indiqué par l'Administration qui effectue la distribution.
3. L'Administration de distribution frappe l'envoi de la taxe à percevoir. 4. Tout envoi ne portant pas le timbre T est considéré comme dûment affranchi et traité en conséquence, sauf erreur évidente . 5. Il n'est pas tenu compte des timbres-poste et des empreintes d'affranchissement non valables pour l'affranchissement. Dans ce cas, le chiffre zéro (0) est placé à côté de ces timbres-poste ou de ces empreintes, qui doivent être encadrés au crayon.
ARTICLE 135.
Renvoi des bulletins d'affranchissement. Récupération des droits avancés.
1. Après la livraison au destinataire d'un envoi franc de droits, le bureau qui a fait l'avance des frais de douane ou autres pour le compte de l'expéditeur complète, en ce qui le concerne, les indications qui figurent au verso du bulletin d'affranchissement et transmet ce dernier, accompagné des pièces justificatives, au bureau d'origine de l'envoi ; cette transmission a lieu sous enveloppe fermée, sans indication du contenu.
2. Toutefois, chaque Administration a le droit de faire effectuer, par des bureaux spécialement désignés, le renvoi des bulletins d'affranchissement grevés de frais et de demander que les bulletins soient transmis à un bureau déterminé.
3. Le nom du bureau auquel les bulletins doivent être renvoyés est inscrit, dans tous les cas , par le bureau expéditeur de l'envoi au recto du bulletin d'affranchissement.
4. Lorsqu'un envoi qui porte l'indication Franc de droits» parvient au service destinataire sans bulletin d'affranchissement, le bureau chargé du dédouanement établit un duplicata du bulletin sur lequel il mentionne le nom du Pays d'origine et, autant que possible, la date du dépôt de l'envoi.
5. - Lorsque le bulletin d'affranchissement est perdu après livraison de l'envoi , un duplicata est établi dans les mêmes conditions.
6. Les bulletins d'affranchissement afférents aux envois qui, pour un motif quelconque, sont renvoyés à l'origine doivent être annulés par les soins de l'Administration destinataire.
7. A la réception d'un bulletin d'affranchissement indiquant les frais déboursés par le service destinataire, l'Administration d'origine convertit le montant de ces frais dans sa propre monnaie à un taux qui ne doit pas être supérieur au taux fixé pour l'émission des mandats de poste à destination du Pays correspondant. Le résultat de la conversion est indiqué dans le corps de la formule et sur le coupon latéral. Après avoir recouvré le montant des frais, le bureau d'origine remet à l'expéditeur le coupon du bulletin et, le cas échéant, les pièces justificatives.

3226

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT

ARTICLE 136.
Envois réexpédiés .
1 . Les correspondances adressées à des destinataires ayant changé de résidence sont considérées comme adressées directement du lieu d'origine au lieu de la nouvelle destination.
2. Les envois non ou insuffisamment affranchis pour leur premier parcours sont frappés de la taxe qui leur aurait été appliquée s'ils avaient été adressés directement du point d'origine au lieu de la destination nouvelle.
3. Les envois régulièrement affranchis pour leur premier parcours, et dont le complément de taxe afférent au parcours ultérieur n'a pas été acquitté avant leur réexpédition, sont frappés d'une taxe égale à la différence entre le prix d'affranchissement déjà acquitté et celui qui aurait été perçu si les envois avaient été expédiés primitivement sur leur nouvelle destination .
4. Les envois primitivement adressés à l'intérieur d'un Pays et dûment affranchis selon le régime intérieur sont considérés comme des envois régulièrement affranchis pour leur premier parcours.
5. Les envois ayant circulé primitivement en franchise postale dans l'intérieur d'un Pays sont frappés de la taxe qu'ils auraient dû acquitter s'ils avaient été adressés directement du point d'origine au lieu de la destination nouvelle.
6. Lors de la réexpédition, le bureau réexpéditeur applique son timbre à date au recto des envois sous forme de cartes et au verso de toutes les autres catégories de correspondances.
7. Les correspondances ordinaires ou recommandées qui sont renvoyées aux expéditeurs pour qu'ils en complètent ou en rectifient l'adresse, ne sont pas considérées, lors de leur remise dans le service, comme des correspondances réexpédiées ; elles sont traitées comme de nouveaux envois et deviennent, par suite, passibles d'une nouvelle taxe.
8. Les droits de douane et les autres droits non postaux dont l'annulation n'a pu être obtenue à la réexpédition ou au renvoi à l'origine (art . 138 ci-après) sont recouvrés, par voie de remboursement, sur l'Administration de la nouvelle destination . Dans ce cas, l'Administration de la destination primitive joint à l'envoi une note explicative et un mandat de remboursement (modèle R 3 de l'Arrangement concernant les envois contre remboursement) . Si le service de remboursement n'existe pas dans les relations entre les Administrations intéressées, les droits en cause sont recouvrés par voie de correspondance.
9. Dans le cas où l'essai de remise d'un objet exprès à domicile par un porteur spécial est resté infructueux, le bureau réexpéditeur doit barrer l'étiquette ou la mention « Exprès» par deux forts traits transversaux .
ARTICLE 137.
Enveloppes de réexpédition et enveloppes collectrices.
1. Les objets de correspondance ordinaires à réexpédier à une même personne ayant changé de résidence peuvent être insérés dans des enveloppes spéciales conformes au modèle C 6 ci-annexé, fournies par les Administrations et sur lesquelles doivent seuls être inscrits le nom et la nouvelle adresse du destinataire.
2. Il ne peut être inséré dans ces enveloppes des envois à soumettre au contrôle douanier, ni des objets dont la forme, le volume et le poids risqueraient d'occasionner des déchirures ; le poids global d'une enveloppe et de son contenu ne doit en aucun cas dépasser 500 grammes.
3. L'enveloppe doit être présentée ouverte au bureau réexpéditeur pour lui permettre de percevoir, s'il y a lieu, les compléments de taxe dont les objets qu'elle contient pourraient être passibles ou d'indiquer sur ces objets la taxe à percevoir à l'arrivée, lorsque le complément d'affranchissement n'est pas acquitté. Après vérification , le bureau réexpéditeur ferme l'enveloppe et y applique, le cas échéant, le timbre T avec l'indication, en francs et centimes, du montant total des taxes à percevoir.
4. A l'arrivée à destination, l'enveloppe peut être ouverte et son contenu vérifié par le bureau distributeur, qui perçoit, s'il y a lieu , les compléments de taxe non acquittés.
5. Les objets de correspondance ordinaires adressés, soit aux marins et passagers embarqués sur un même navire, soit à des personnes prenant part en commun à un voyage, peuvent être traités également d'après les dispositions des §§ 1 à 4. Dans ce cas, les enveloppes collectrices doivent être revêtues de l'adresse du navire, de l'agence de navigation ou de voyage, etc., à qui elles doivent être remises .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3227

ARTICLE 138.
Envois tombés en rebut .
1. Avant de renvoyer à l'Administration d'origine les correspondances non distribuées pour un motif quelconque, le bureau de destination doit indiquer d'une manière claire et concise, en langue française, et, autant que possible, au recto de ces objets, la cause de la non-remise sous la forme suivante : inconnu, refusé, en voyage, parti, non réclamé, décédé, etc. En ce qui concerne les cartes postales et les imprimés sous forme de cartes, la cause de la non-remise est indiquée sur la moitié droite du recto .
2. - Cette indication est fournie par l'application d'un timbre ou l'apposition d'une étiquette. Chaque Administration a la faculté d'ajouter la traduction, dans sa propre langue , de la cause de la non-remise et les autres indications qui lui conviennent.
3. Le bureau de destination doit barrer les indications de lieu qui le concernent et porter au recto de l'objet la mention Retour» à côté de l'indication du bureau d'origine . Il doit, en outre, appliquer son timbre à date au verso des lettres et au recto des cartes postales.
4. Le renvoi des correspondances tombées en rebut se fait, soit isolément , soit en une liasse spéciale étiquetée « Rebuts ».
5. Les correspondances recommandées tombées en rebut sont renvoyées au bureau d'échange du Pays d'origine comme s'il s'agissait de correspondances recommandées à diriger sur ce Pays.
6. Les correspondances du régime intérieur qui tombent en rebut et doivent, pour restitution aux expéditeurs, être envoyées à l'étranger, sont traitées d'après les dispositions de l'article 136.
7. Les correspondances pour les marins et autres personnes, adressées aux soins d'un Consul et rendues par celui-ci au bureau de poste comme non réclamées, doivent être traitées comme rebuts. Le montant des taxes perçues sur ces correspondances doit être restitué.
ARTICLE 139.
Retrait. Modification d'adresse.
1. - Les demandes de retrait de correspondances ou de modification d'adresse donnent lieu à l'établissement, par l'expéditeur, d'une formule conforme au modèle C 7 ci-annexé ; une seule formule peut être utilisée pour plusieurs envois remis simultanément au même bureau par le même expéditeur à l'adresse du même destinataire. En remettant cette demande au bureau de poste, l'expéditeur doit justifier de son identité et produire, s'il y a lieu , le bulletin de dépôt. Après la justification, dont l'Administration du Pays d'origine assume la responsabilité, il est procédé de la manière suivante :
a) si la demande est destinée à être transmise par voie postale, la formule, accompagnée d'un fac-similé parfait de l'enveloppe ou de la suscription de l'envoi, est expédiée directement, sous pli recommandé, au bureau destinataire ;
b) si la demande doit être faite par voie télégraphique, la formule est déposée au service télégraphique chargé d'en transmettre les termes au bureau de poste destinataire. Le télégramme est rédigé en langue française. 2. A la réception de la formule C 7 ou du télégramme en tenant lieu, le bureau destinataire
recherche la correspondance signalée et donne à la demande la suite nécessaire. 3. Si la recherche est infructueuse, si l'envoi a déjà été remis au destinataire ou si la demande
par voie télégraphique n'est pas assez explicite pour permettre de reconnaître sûrement l'envoi, le fait est signalé immédiatement au bureau d'origine, qui en prévient le réclamant. Il en est de même lorsque l'intervention de la douane révèle une irrégularité.
4. Toute Administration peut demander, par une notification adressée au Bureau international, que l'échange des demandes, en ce qui la concerne, soit effectué par l'entremise de son Administration centrale ou d'un bureau spécialement désigné.
5. Dans les cas où l'échange des demandes s'effectue par l'entremise des Administrations centrales, il doit être tenu compte des demandes expédiées directement par les bureaux d'origine aux bureaux de destination, dans ce sens que les correspondances y relatives sont exclues de la distribution jusqu'à l'arrivée de la demande de l'Administration centrale.

3228

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

6. -- Les Administrations qui usent de la faculté prévue au § 4 prennent à leur charge les frais que peut entraîner la transmission , dans leur service intérieur, par voie postale ou télégraphique, des communications à échanger avec le bureau destinataire. Le recours à la voie télégraphique est obligatoire lorsque l'expéditeur a lui-même fait usage de cette voie et que le bureau destinataire ne peut pas être prévenu en temps utile par la voie postale.
ARTICLE 140.
Réclamations. Envois ordinaires.
1. -Toute réclamation relative à un envoi ordinaire donne lieu à l'établissement d'une formule conforme au modèle C 8 ci-annexé, qui doit être accompagnée, autant que possible, d'un fac-similé de l'enveloppe ou de la suscription de l'envoi.
2. Le bureau qui reçoit la réclamation transmet directement cette formule, sans lettre d'envoi et sous enveloppe fermée, au bureau correspondant . Celui-ci, après avoir recueilli les renseignements nécessaires auprès du destinataire ou de l'expéditeur, selon le cas, renvoie la formule de la même manière au bureau qui l'a dressée .
3. Si la réclamation est reconnue fondée , ce dernier bureau fait parvenir la formule à son Administration centrale en vue des investigations ultérieures.
4. Une seule formule peut être utilisée pour plusieurs envois remis simultanément au même bureau par le même expéditeur à l'adresse du même destinataire.
5. Toute Administration peut demander, par une notification adressée au Bureau international, que les réclamations qui concernent son service soient transmises à son Administration centrale ou à un bureau spécialement désigné.
6.- La formule C 8 doit être renvoyée à l'Administration d'origine de l'envoi réclamé selon les conditions prévues à l'article 141, § 8, ci-après.
ARTICLE 141.
Réclamations. Envois recommandés.
1. Toute réclamation relative à un envoi recommandé est établie sur une formule conforme au modèle C 9 ci-annexé qui doit être accompagnée, autant que possible, d'un fac-similé de l'enveloppe ou de la suscription de l'envoi.
2. Si la réclamation concerne un envoi contre remboursement, elle doit être accompagnée, en outre, d'un duplicata de mandat R 3 de l'Arrangement concernant les envois contre remboursement ou d'un bulletin de versement, selon le cas.
3. Une seule formule peut être utilisée pour plusieurs envois remis simultanément au même bureau par le même expéditeur à l'adresse du même destinataire .
4. La réclamation est, en règle générale, envoyée directement par le bureau d'origine au bureau de destination ; cette transmission a lieu sans lettre d'envoi et sous enveloppe fermée. Si le bureau destinataire est en état de fournir les renseignements sur le sort définitif de l'envoi, il complète la formule et la retourne au bureau d'origine.
5. Lorsque le sort de l'envoi ne peut être établi par le bureau de destination, celui-ci constate le fait sur la formule et la réexpédie au bureau d'origine en y ajoutant, autant que possible, une déclaration du destinataire constatant qu'il n'a pas reçu l'envoi. Dans ce cas, l'Administration d'origine complète la formule en y indiquant les données de la transmission à la première Administration intermédiaire. Elle l'adresse ensuite à cette dernière Administration, qui y consigne ses observations et la transmet éventuellement à l'Administration suivante. La réclamation passe ainsi d'une Administration à l'autre jusqu'à ce que le sort de l'envoi réclamé soit établi. L'Administration qui a effectué la remise au destinataire, ou qui, le cas échéant, ne peut établir ni la remise, ni la transmission régulière à une autre Administration, constate le fait sur la formule et la renvoie à l'Administration d'origine.
6. - Toutefois, si l'Administration d'origine ou l'Administration de destination le demande, la réclamation est transmise de prime abord de bureau à bureau en suivant la même voie d'achemine-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3229

ment que l'envoi. Dans ce cas, les recherches se poursuivent depuis l'Administration d'origine jusqu'à l'Administration de destination en observant la procédure visée au § 5.
7.-- Toute Administration peut demander, par une notification adressée au Bureau international, que les réclamations qui concernent son service soient transmises à son Administration centrale ou à un bureau spécialement désigné.
8. La formule C 9 et les pièces y annexées doivent, dans tous les cas, faire retour à l'Administration d'origine de l'envoi réclamé, dans le plus bref delai possible et au plus tard dans un délai de trois mois à partir de la date de la réclamation. Ce délai est porté à six mois dans les relations avec les Pays éloignés.
9. Les dispositions qui précèdent ne s'appliquent pas aux cas de spoliation de dépêche, manque de dépêche ou autres cas semblables qui comportent une correspondance plus étendue entre les Administrations.
ARTICLE 142.
Demandes de renseignements.
Les demandes de renseignements relatives à des envois ordinaires ou recommandés sont traitées suivant les règles fixées respectivement aux articles 140 et 141.
ARTICLE 143.
Réclamations et demandes de renseignements concernant des envois déposés dans un autre Pays .
1. Dans les cas prévus à l'article 56, § 5, de la Convention, les formules C 8 et C 9 concernant les réclamations ou les demandes de renseignements sont transmises à l'Administration d'origine. La formule C 9 doit être accompagnée du récépissé de dépôt.
2. L'Administration d'origine doit être mise en possession de la formule dans les délais prévus à l'article 56 de la Convention.
ARTICLE 144.
Emploi de timbres-poste présumés frauduleux ou d'empreintes contrefaites de machines à affranchir ou de presses d'imprimerie .
1. Sous réserve expresse des dispositions que comporte la législation de chaque Pays, la procédure ci-après est suivie pour la constatation de l'emploi, pour l'affranchissement, de timbres-poste frauduleux ou d'empreintes contrefaites de machines à affranchir ou de presses d'imprimerie :
a) lorsque la présence, sur un envoi quelconque, d'un timbre-poste frauduleux (contrefait ou ayant déjà servi) ou d'empreintes contrefaites de machines à affranchir ou de presses d'imprimerie est constatée au départ, la figurine n'est altérée d'aucune façon et l'envoi, accompagné d'un avis conforme au modèle C 10 ci-annexé, est adressé sous enveloppe recommandée d'office au bureau destinataire. Un exemplaire de cet avis est transmis, pour information, aux Administrations des Pays d'origine et de destination ;
b) l'envoi n'est remis au destinataire, convoqué pour constater la contravention, que s'il paie le port dû, fait connaître le nom et l'adresse de l'expéditeur et met à la disposition de la poste, après avoir pris connaissance du contenu, soit l'envoi entier s'il est inséparable du corps du délit, soit la partie de l'envoi (enveloppe, bande, portion de lettre, etc. ) qui contient la suscription et l'empreinte ou le timbre signalé comme frauduleux . Le résultat de la convocation est constaté par un procès-verbal conforme au modèle C 11 ci-annexé, signé par l'agent des postes et par le destinataire. Le refus éventuel de ce dernier est constaté sur ce document. 2. Le procès-verbal est transmis, avec pièces à l'appui, sous recommandation d'office, à l'Ad-
ministration du Pays d'origine, qui y donne la suite que comporte sa législation. 3. - Les Administrations dont la législation ne permet pas la procédure prévue au § 1, lettres a)
et b) ci-dessus doivent en informer le Bureau international aux fins de notification aux autres Administrations.

3230

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

TITRE V.
Echange des envois .
CHAPITRE UNIQUE.
ARTICLE 145.
Feuilles d'avis.
1. Les feuilles d'avis accompagnant les dépêches sont conformes au modèle C 12 ci-annexé. Elles sont placées sous des enveloppes de couleur bleue portant en gros caractères l'indication « Feuille d'avis ».
2. Le bureau expéditeur remplit la feuille d'avis avec tous les détails qu'en comporte la contexture et en tenant compte des dispositions suivantes :
a) Tableau I : la présence d'envois ordinaires à faire remettre par exprès est signalée par un trait soulignant la mention correspondante ;
b) Tableau II : sauf arrangement contraire, les bureaux expéditeurs numérotent les feuilles d'avis d'après une série annuelle pour chaque bureau de destination lorsque les dépêches ne sont pas formées tous les jours. Chaque dépêche prend, dans ce cas, un numéro distinct, même s'il s'agit d'une dépêche supplémentaire empruntant la même voie ou le même navire que la dépêche ordinaire. A la première expédition de chaque année, la feuille doit porter, outre le numéro d'ordre de la dépêche, celui de la dernière dépêche de l'année précédente. Le nom du navire qui emporte la dépêche est indiqué lorsque le bureau expéditeur est à même de le connaître ;
c) Tableau III: il peut être fait usage d'une ou de plusieurs listes spéciales conformes au modèle C 13 ci-annexé, soit pour remplacer le tableau V, soit pour servir comme feuille d'avis supplémentaire. L'emploi exclusif de listes spéciales est obligatoire si l'Administration de destination en fait la demande. Les listes dont il s'agit doivent indiquer le même numéro d'ordre que celui qui est mentionné sur la feuille d'avis de la dépêche correspondante. Lorsque plusieurs listes sont employées, elles doivent être numérotées. Le nombre des envois recommandés qui peuvent être inscrits sur une seule et même liste spéciale est limité à 60 ;
d) Tableau IV : le cas échéant, le nombre des sacs vides appartenant à une Administration autre que celle à laquelle la dépêche est adressée doit être mentionné séparément avec indication de cette Administration. Sont, en outre, mentionnées au tableau IV les lettres de service ouvertes et les communications ou recommandations diverses du bureau expéditeur ayant trait au service d'échange ;
e) Tableau V: ce tableau est destiné à l'inscription des envois recommandés lorsqu'il n'est pas exclusivement fait usage de listes spéciales. Dans le cas où les Administrations correspondantes se sont entendues pour l'inscription globale des objets recommandés sur les feuilles d'avis, le nombre total de ces objets doit être indiqué en chiffres et en toutes lettres. Lorsque la dépêche ne contient pas d'envois recommandés, la mention « Néant » est portée au tableau V. 3. Les Administrations peuvent s'entendre pour créer d'auties tableaux ou rubriques sur la
feuille d'avis lorsqu'elles le jugent nécessaire. Elles peuvent, notamment, disposer les tableaux V et VI conformément à leurs besoins.
4. Lorsqu'un bureau d'échange n'a aucun objet à livrer à un bureau correspondant, et que, dans les relations entre les Administrations intéressées, les feuilles d'avis ne sont pas numérotées par application du § 2, lettre b) , ce bureau se borne à envoyer une feuille d'avis négative dans la prochaine dépêche.
5. Quand les dépêches closes doivent être transmises au moyen de navires que l'Administration intermédiaire dont ils dépendent n'utilise pas régulièrement pour ses propres transports, le poids des lettres et autres objets doit être indiqué sur l'adresse de ces dépêches lorsque l'Administration chargée d'assurer l'embarquement le demande.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3231

ARTICLE 146.
Transmission des envois recommandés.
1. - Les envois recommandés et, s'il y a lieu, les listes spéciales prévues à l'article 145. § 2, sont réunis en un ou plusieurs paquets ou sacs distincts qui doivent être convenablement enveloppés ou fermés et cachetés ou plombés de manière à en préserver le contenu. Les envois recommandés sont classés dans chaque paquet d'après leur ordre d'inscription . Quand on emploie plusieurs listes spéciales, chacune d'elles est enliassée avec les objets recommandés auxquels elle se rapporte et placée après le premier objet de la liasse.
2. Sous réserve d'entente entre les Administrations intéressées et lorsque le volume des envois recommandés le permet, ces envois peuvent être insérés dans l'enveloppe spéciale contenant la feuille d'avis. Cette enveloppe doit être cachetée.
3. En aucun cas, les envois recommandés ne peuvent être confondus avec les correspondances ordinaires.
4. Sous réserve d'entente entre les Administrations, les A.O. recommandés, expédiés dans des sacs distincts, peuvent être accompagnés de tistes spéciales sur lesquelles ils sont inscrits globalement.
5. Autant que possible, un même sac ne doit pas comprendre plus de 600 envois recommandés. 6. Au paquet d'envois recommandés est attachée extérieurement, par un croisé de ficelle, l'enveloppe spéciale contenant la feuille d'avis ; lorsque les envois recommandés sont renfermés dans un sac, ladite enveloppe est fixée au col de ce sac. 7. S'il y a plus d'un paquet ou sac d'envois recommandés, chacun des paquets ou sacs supplémentaires est muni d'une étiquette indiquant la nature du contenu.
ARTICLE 147.
Transmission des envois exprès.
1. Les envois exprès ordinaires sont réunis en une liasse spéciale munie d'une étiquette portant en gros caractères la mention Exprès » et insérés, par les bureaux d'échange, dans l'enveloppe contenant la feuille d'avis qui accompagne la dépêche.
2. Toutefois, si cette enveloppe doit être fixée au col du sac des envois recommandés (art. 146, § 6), la liasse des envois exprès est placée dans le sac extérieur. La présence, dans la dépêche, des correspondances de l'espèce est alors annoncée par une fiche placée dans l'enveloppe contenant la feuille d'avis. La même procédure est suivie lorsque les envois exprès n'ont pu être joints à la feuille d'avis en raison de leur nombre, de leur forme ou de leurs dimensions.
3. - Les envois exprès recommandés sont classés, à leur ordre, parmi les autres envois recommandés et la mention «Exprès» est portée dans la colonne « Observations» du tableau V de la feuille d'avis ou des listes spéciales, en regard de l'inscription de chacun d'eux. En cas d'inscription globale, la présence d'envois recommandés à remettre par exprès est signalée simplement par la mention «Exprès» au tableau V de la feuille d'avis.
ARTICLE 148.
Confection des dépêches.
1. En règle générale, les objets sont classés et enliassés par nature de correspondances, les lettres et les cartes postales étant comprises dans la même liasse et les journaux et écrits périodiques devant faire l'objet de liasses distinctes de celles des imprimés ordinaires. Les liasses sont désignées par des étiquettes portant l'indication du bureau destinataire ou réexpéditeur des envois insérés dans les liasses . Les objets de correspondance susceptibles d'être enliassés doivent être disposés dans le sens de l'adresse. Les objets affranchis sent séparés de ceux qui ne le sont pas ou le sont insuffisamment et les étiquettes de liasses d'objets non ou insuffisamment affranchis sont frappées du timbre T.
2. Les lettres portant des traces d'ouverture, de détérioration ou d'avarie doivent être munies d'une mention du fait et frappées du timbre à date du bureau qui l'a constaté.
3. Les mandats de poste expédiés à découvert sont réunis en une liasse distincte, qui doit être insérée dans un paquet ou sac contenant des objets recommandés et éventuellement dans le paquet

3232

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ou sac avec valeurs déclarées. Si la dépêche ne comprend ni objets recommandés ni valeurs déclarées, les mandats sont placés dans l'enveloppe contenant la feuille d'avis ou enliassés avec celle-ci.
4. Les dépêches sont renfermées dans des sacs convenablement clos , cachetés ou plombés et étiquetés. Lorsqu'il est fait usage de ficelle, elle doit être passée deux fois autour du col avant d'être nouée . Les empreintes des cachets ou des plombs doivent reproduire, en caractères latins très lisibles, le nom du bureau d'origine ou une indication suffisante pour permettre de déterminer ce bureau.
5. Les étiquettes des dépêches doivent être en toile, carton fort, parchemin ou en papier collé sur une planchette ; dans les relations entre bureaux limitrophes, il peut être fait usage d'étiquettes en papier fort. Les étiquettes sont confectionnées dans les couleurs suivantes :
a) en rouge vermillon, pour les sacs contenant des envois recommandés ; b) en blanc, pour les sacs ne contenant que des lettres et des cartes postales ordinaires; c) en bleu clair, pour les sacs contenant exclusivement d'autres objets ordinaires; d) en vert, pour les sacs contenant seulement des sacs vides renvoyés à l'origine .
6. Sauf avis contraire des Administrations de transit ou de destination, il peut aussi être utilisé des étiquettes blanches barrées obliquement sur les deux faces d'une bande de deux centimètres de large dont la couleur correspond au contenu du sac.
7. Les sacs contenant de la correspondance ordinaire mixte (lettres, cartes postales et autres objets) doivent être munis de l'étiquette blanche.
8. L'emploi d'étiquettes de couleur rouge vermillon , blanche et bleu clair est obligatoire ; en revanche, les étiquettes vertes sont utilisées seulement si l'Administration de destination l'exige.
9. Les étiquettes portent l'indication imprimée en petits caractères latins du nom du bureau expéditeur et, en caractères latins gras, du nom du bureau destinataire, précédés respectivement des mots «de » et «pour » . Dans les échanges entre les Pays éloignés non effectués par des services maritimes directs, ces indications sont complétées par la mention de la date d'expédition, du numéro de l'envoi et, le cas échéant, du port de débarquement si l'Administration intéressée le demande .
10. Les sacs doivent indiquer d'une façon lisible, en caractères latins, le bureau ou le Pays d'origine et porter la mention «Postes» ou toute autre analogue les signalant comme dépêches postales.
11. Les bureaux intermédiaires ne doivent porter aucun numéro d'ordre sur les étiquettes des sacs ou paquets de dépêches closes en transit.
12. Sauf arrangement contraire, les dépêches peu volumineuses ou négatives sont simplement enveloppées de papier fort de manière à éviter toute détérioration du contenu, puis ficelées et cachetées ou plombées. En cas de plombage, ces depêches doivent être conditionnées de telle façon que la ficelle ne puisse pas être détachée. Lorsqu'elles ne contiennent que des correspondances ordinaires, elles peuvent être fermées au moyen de cachets gommes portant l'indication imprimée du bureau ou de J'Administration expéditrice. Les suscriptions des paquets doivent correspondre, en ce qui concerne les indications imprimées et les couleurs, aux prescriptions prévues au §§ 4 à 11 pour les étiquettes des sacs de correspondances.
13. Lorsque le nombre ou le volume des envois exige l'emploi de plus d'un sac, des sacs distincts doivent, autant que possible, être utilisés :
a) pour les lettres et cartes postales ; b) pour les autres objets; le cas échéant, des sacs distincts doivent encore être utilisés pour les
petits paquets ; les étiquettes de ces derniers sacs portent la mention « Petits paquets». 14. Le paquet ou sac des envois recommandés, réuni avec la feuille d'avis de la façon prévue à l'article 146, § 6, est placé dans un des sacs de lettres ou dans un sac spécial ; le sac extérieur doit porter, en tout cas, l'étiquette rouge. Lorsqu'il y a plus d'un sac d'envois recommandés , les sacs supplémentaires peuvent être expédiés à découvert munis de l'étiquette rouge.
15. L'étiquette du sac ou paquet renfermant la feuille d'avis, même si celle-ci est négative , est toujours revêtue de la lettre F tracée d'une manière apparente.
16. Conformément aux dispositions du § 5, une étiquette rouge ne doit être employée que si le sac contient des envois recommandés.
17. Le poids de chaque sac ne doit pas dépasser 30 kilogrammes. 18. Les bureaux d'échange insèrent autant que possible, dans leurs propres dépêches pour un bureau déterminé, toutes les dépêches de petites dimensions (paquets ou sacs) qui leur parviennent pour ce bureau.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3233

19. Sauf avis contraire de la part de l'Administration de destination, tous les paquets d'imprimés à l'adresse du même destinataire et pour la même destination peuvent être renfermés dans un ou plusieurs sacs spéciaux. Dans ce cas, en plus des indications réglementaires, on doit mentionner, sur l'étiquette, les renseignements concernant le destinataire des envois. Lorsqu'il s'agit d'envois recommandés, ceux-ci sont inscrits sur une liste spéciale C 13 et séparés des autres envois compris dans la dépêche.
ARTICLE 149.
Remise des dépêches.
1. La remise des dépêches entre deux bureaux correspondants s'effectue suivant les dispositions prises par les Administrations intéressées.
2. Seuls les sacs et paquets signalés par des étiquettes rouges doivent, au moment de la livraison, être soumis à une vérification complète de leur fermeture et de leur conditionnement. Quant aux autres sacs et paquets, la vérification en est facultative et ils sont toujours remis globalement.
3. - Les dépêches doivent être livrées en bon état. Cependant, une dépêche ne peut pas être refusée pour cause d'avarie. Lorsqu'une dépêche est reçue en mauvais état par un bureau intermédiaire, elle doit être mise telle quelle sous nouvel emballage. Le bureau qui effectue le remballage doit porter les indications de l'étiquette originale sur la nouvelle étiquette et apposer sur celle-ci une empreinte de son timbre à date, précédée de la mention « Remballé à
ARTICLE 150.
Vérification des dépêches .
1.- Lorsqu'un bureau intermédiaire doit procéder au remballage d'une dépêche, il en vérifie le contenu s'il présume que celui-ci n'est pas resté intact . Il dresse un bulletin de vérification conforme au modèle C 14 ci-annexé en se conformant aux dispositions des §§ 4 à 6 ci-après. Ce bulletin est envoyé au bureau d'échange d'où la dépêche a été reçue ; une copie en est adressée au bureau d'origine et une autre est insérée dans la dépêche remballée.
2. Le bureau destinataire vérifie si la dépêche est au complet et si les inscriptions de la feuille d'avis et, le cas échéant, des listes spéciales d'envois recommandés sont exactes. En cas de manque d'une dépêche ou d'un ou plusieurs sacs en faisant partie, d'objets recommandés, d'une feuille d'avis, d'une liste spéciale d'envois recommandés, ou lorsqu'il s'agit de toute autre irrégularité, le fait est constaté immédiatement par deux agents. Ceux-ci font les rectifications nécessaires sur les feuilles ou listes en ayant soin de biffer les indications erronées de manière à laisser reconnaître les inscriptions primitives. A moins d'une erreur évidente, les rectifications prévalent sur la déclaration originale.
3. Lorsqu'un bureau reçoit des feuilles d'avis ou des listes spéciales qui ne lui sont pas destinées, il envoie ces documents au bureau de destination ou, si ses réglements internes le prescrivent, des copies certifiées conformes.
4. Les faits constatés sont signalés, au moyen d'un bulletin de vérification, au bureau d'origine de la dépêche et, en cas de manquant réel, au dernier bureau intermédiaire, par le premier courrier utilisable après vérification complète de la dépêche. Les indications de ce bulletin doivent spécifier aussi exactement que possible de quel sac, paquet ou objet il s'agit.
5. Un duplicata du bulletin de vérification est envoyé, dans les mêmes conditions que l'original, à l'Administration dont relève le bureau d'origine de la dépêche, lorsque cette Administration l'exige. Lorsqu'il s'agit d'irrégularités importantes permettant de présumer une perte ou une spoliation, l'enveloppe ou le sac ainsi que la ficelle et le cachet ou plomb de fermeture du paquet ou du sac des envois recommandés sont, à moins d'impossibilité motivée, joints au bulletin de vérification destiné au bureau d'origine. Il en est de même de l'enveloppe ou du sac extérieurs, avec leur ficelle, leur étiquette, leur cachet ou plomb de fermeture. Dans l'échange avec les Administrations qui exigent l'envoi d'un duplicata, les pièces justificatives mentionnées ci-dessus sont annexées au duplicata.
6. Dans les cas prévus aux §§ 1 à 3, le bureau d'origine et, le cas échéant, le dernier bureau d'échange intermédiaire peuvent, en outre, être avisés par télégramme aux frais de l'Administration qui expédie celui-ci. Un avis télégraphique doit être émis toutes les fois que la dépêche présente des traces évidentes de spoliation, afin que le bureau expéditeur ou intermédiaire procède sans aucun retard à l'instruction de l'affaire et, le cas échéant, avise également par télégramme l'Administration précédente pour la continuation de l'enquête .

3234

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

7. Lorsque l'absence d'une dépêche est le résultat d'un défaut de coïncidence des courriers ou lorsqu'elle est dûment expliquée sur le bordereau de remise, l'établissement d'un bulletin de vérification n'est nécessaire que si la dépêche ne parvient pas au bureau destinataire par le plus prochain courrier.
8. -- L'envoi du duplicata prévu au § 5 peut être différé si l'on présume que le manque de la dépêche provient d'un retard cu d'une fausse direction.
9. Dès la rentrée d'une dépêche dont l'absence avait été signalée au bureau d'origine et, le cas échéant, au dernier bureau d'échange intermédiaire, il y a lieu d'adresser à ces bureaux un second bulletin de vérification annonçant la réception de cette dépêche.
10. Les bureaux auxquels sont adressés les bulletins de vérification les renvoient le plus promptement possible après les avoir examinés et y avoir mentionné leurs observations , s'il y a lieu. Si ces bulletins ne sont pas renvoyés à l'Administration d'origine dans le délai de deux mois à compter de la date de leur expédition, ils sont considérés, jusqu'à preuve du contraire, comme dûment acceptés par les bureaux auxquels ils ont été adressés. Ce délai est porté à quatre mois dans les relations avec les Pays éloignés.
11. Lorsqu'un bureau réceptionnaire auquel la vérification de la dépêche incombait n'a pas fait parvenir au bureau d'origine et, le cas échéant, au dernier bureau d'échange intermédiaire, par le premier courrier utilisable après la vérification, un bulletin constatant des irrégularités quelconques, il est considéré, jusqu'à preuve du contraire, comme ayant reçu la dépêche et son contenu . La même présomption existe pour les irrégularités dont la mention a été omise ou signalée d'une manière incomplète dans le bulletin de vérification ; il en est ainsi lorsque les prescriptions du présent article concernant les formalités à remplir n'ont pas été observées.
12. Les bulletins de vérification et les duplicata sont transmis sous pli recommandé.
ARTICLE 151.
Renvoi des sacs vides.
1. Sauf arrangement contraire entre les Administrations correspondantes, les sacs doivent être renvoyés vides, par le prochain courrier, dans une dépêche directe pour le Pays auquel ces sacs appartiennent. Le nombre des sacs renvoyés par chaque dépêche doit être inscrit sous la rubrique Indications de service» de la feuille d'avis.
2. Le renvoi est effectué entre les bureaux d'échange désignés à cet effet.
3. Les sacs vides doivent être roulés en paquets convenables ; le cas échéant, les planchettes à étiquettes ainsi que les étiquettes en toile, parchemin ou autre matière solide doivent être placées à l'intérieur des sacs. Les paquets doivent être revêtus d'une étiquette indiquant le nom du bureau d'échange d'où les sacs ont été reçus, chaque fois qu'ils sont renvoyés par l'intermédiaire d'un autre bureau d'échange.
4. Si les sacs vides à renvoyer ne sont pas trop nombreux, ils peuvent être placés dans les sacs contenant la correspondance ; dans le cas contraire, ils doivent être placés à part dans des sacs cachetés, étiquetés au nom des bureaux d'échange . Les étiquettes doivent porter la mention « Sacs vides».
5. Dans le cas où le contrôle exercé par une Administration sur le renvoi des sacs qui lui appartiennent démontrerait que 10 % du nombre total des sacs utilisés pendant une année pour la confection des dépêches n'ont pas été renvoyés avant la fin de cette année, l'Administration qui ne peut établir le renvoi des sacs vides est tenue de rembourser à l'Administration expéditrice la valeur des sacs manquants. Le remboursement doit également avoir lieu si le nombre des sacs manquants n'atteint pas 10 % mais excède 50 unités.
6. Chaque Administration fixe, périodiquement et uniformément pour toutes les espèces de sacs qui sont utilisés par ses bureaux d'échange, une valeur moyenne en francs et la communique aux Administrations intéressées par l'intermédiaire du Bureau international.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3235

TITRE VI.
Dispositions concernant les frais de transit.
CHAPITRE I.
Opérations de statistique.
ARTICLE 152.
Statistique des frais de transit.
1. Les frais de transit exigibles en exécution des articles 67 et suivants de la Convention sont établis sur la base de statistiques dressées une fois tous les trois ans et alternativement pendant les quatorze ou vingt-huit premiers jours du mois de mai ou pendant les quatorze ou vingt-huit premiers jours qui suivent le 14 octobre.
2. La statistique est dressée pendant la deuxième année de chaque période triennale. 3. Les dépêches confectionnées à bord des navires sont comprises dans les statistiques lorsqu'elles sont débarquées pendant la période de statistique . 4. Les payements des frais de transit afférents à la période du mois de septembre 1939 au 31 décembre 1948 seront effectués sur la base du poids réel des courriers transportés aux conditions fixées par les arrangements particuliers conclus entre les Pays intéressés. La statistique de mai 1949 s'appliquera aux années 1949 et 1950; celle d'octobre-novembre 1952 aux années 1951, 1952 et 1953. 5. Les payements annuels des frais de transit à effectuer en raison d'une statistique doivent être continués provisoirement, jusqu'à ce que les comptes établis d'après la statistique suivante soient approuvés ou considérés comme admis de plein droit (art. 161 ci-après). A ce moment, il est procédé à la régularisation des payements effectués à titre provisoire. 6. - Lorsqu'il se produit une modification importante dans l'acheminement des correspondances d'un Pays pour un autre et si cette modification affecte une période ou des périodes s'élevant à un total d'au moins douze mois, chaque Administration intéressée peut demander une revision des comptes de frais de transit. Dans ce cas, les sommes à payer par les Administrations expéditrices sont déterminées d'après les services intermédiaires réellement employés, mais les poids totaux qui servent de base aux nouveaux comptes doivent normalement être les mêmes que ceux des dépêches expédiées pendant la période de statistique mentionnée aux §§ 1 à 3. Lorsqu'une entente sur le mode de répartition ne peut être obtenue, une statistique spéciale doit être dressée pour régler le partage de ces poids entre les divers services empruntés. Aucune modification dans l'acheminement des correspondances pour un Pays déterminé n'est considérée comme importante si elle n'affecte pas de plus de 5000 francs par an les comptes entre l'Administration d'origine et l'Administration intermédiaire intéressée. Si la modification dépasse cette somme, elle a sa répercussion sur les décomptes de l'Administration d'origine avec les Administrations qui ont effectué le transit antérieurement et les Administrations qui l'assurent postérieurement à la modification survenue, même lorsque la réduction des comptes n'atteint pas pour certaines Administrations le minimum fixé . La demande d'une revision des comptes et, le cas échéant, d'une statistique spéciale peut être faite lorsque la modification dans l'acheminement des correspondances dont il s'agit a duré au moins neuf mois. Toutefois, les données de cette statistique ne sont prises en considération que si la période de douze mois est réellement accomplie. 7. Si, lors d'une statistique spéciale, il est établi que les poids totaux des courriers échangés entre deux Administrations et transportés par une tierce Administration ont augmenté de 100 % ou diminué de 50 % par rapport aux données de la dernière statistique périodique et que le compte de la tierce Administration subirait de ce chef une modification de plus de 5000 francs par an, les nouveaux poids constatés doivent servir de base pour les frais de transit dus à cette Administration . 8. De même, lorsqu'une Administration intermédiaire constate, dans les six mois qui suivent la statistique, qu'il existe entre les expéditions faites par une autre Administration pendant la période de statistique et le trafic normal une différence de 20 % au moins sur les poids totaux du transport, 68706 0-51- PT. III- 40

3236

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

l'Administration intéressée peut exiger l'établissement d'une nouvelle statistique si les comptes entre deux Administrations sont affectés d'une modification de plus de 5000 francs par an.

ARTICLE 153.
Confection et désignation des dépêches closes pendant la période de statistique.
1. Pendant chaque période de statistique, l'échange des correspondances en dépêches closes à travers le territoire ou au moyen des services d'une ou de plusieurs Administrations intermédiaires donne lieu à l'utilisation de sacs distincts pour les lettres et les cartes postales» et pour les autres (objets».
2. Le nombre des sacs utilisés pour la confection d'une dépêche doit être réduit av strict minimum.
3. L'obligation de former des sacs distincts pour les lettres et cartes postales» et pour les autres objets» ne s'applique pas aux dépêches dont le poids brut total n'est pas supérieur à 3 kilogrammes, c'est-à-dire au poids moyen mis en compte pour les sacs légers en vertu de l'article 161 ci-après. Chaque Administration a donc la faculté, en pareil cas, de réunir tous les objets en un seul sac qui est alors compté comme sac «L. C.». Il est bien entendu qu'une telle dépêche ne peut comprendre aucun autre sac donnant lieu au payement de frais de transit.
4. Lorsque le volume des dépêches le permet, les sacs distincts d'objets de toutes catégories (L. C. et A. O.) , pour une même destination, doivent être réunis dans un seul sac collecteur.
5. Par dérogation aux dispositions des articles 146 et 147, chaque Administration a la faculté, pendant la période de statistique, de comprendre les objets recommandés et les envois exprès, autres que les lettres et les cartes postales, dans un des sacs destinés aux autres objets, en faisant mention de ce fait sur la feuille d'avis ; mais si, conformément aux articles 146 et 147, ces objets sont compris dans un sac de lettres, ils sont considérés comme lettres en ce qui concerne la statistique.
6. Pendant la période de statistique, toutes les dépêches échangées en transit doivent être munies en dehors des étiquettes ordinaires, d'une étiquette spéciale portant en gros caractères la mention Statistique », suivie de l'indication « 5 kilogrammes», « 15 kilogrammes» ou « 30 kilogrammes>> selon la catégorie de poids (art. 154, § 1 , ci-après). L'étiquette Statistique» doit porter en outre la mention «L. C.» ou « A. O. » , suivant le cas.
7. En ce qui concerne les sacs qui ne contiennent que des sacs vides ou des correspondances exemptes de tous frais de transit (art. 68 de la Convention), la mention « Statistique» est suivie du mot «Exempt ».
8. Lorsque des sacs composant la dépêche sont réunis dans un sac collecteur, celui-ci dcit être pourvu de l'étiquette spéciale Statistique », sur laquelle la mention « S. C. » est ajoutée . Les indications concernant la statistique qui figurent sur les sacs intérieurs ne sont pas répétées sur le sac collecteur.
ARTICLE 154.
Constatation du nombre de sacs et du poids des dépêches closes.
1. En ce qui concerne les dépêches qui donnent lieu au payement de frais de transit, le bureau d'échange expéditeur fait usage d'une feuille d'avis spéciale conforme au modèle C 15 ci-annexé. Il inscrit à cette feuille d'avis le nombre de sacs en les répartissant, le cas échéant, dans les catégories suivantes :

Description des sacs 1
L. C. A. O.

Nombre de sacs dont le poids brut

ne dépasse pas 5 kg (sacs légers)
2

dépasse 5 kg sans excéder 15 kg
(sacs moyens)

dépasse 15 kg sans excéder 30 kg
(sacs lourds)

Nombre de sacs exempts de frais de transit :

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3237

2. - Le nombre de sacs exempts de frais de transit doit être le total de ceux qui portent l'indication « Statistique-Exempt», d'après les prescriptions de l'article 153, § 7.
3. Les indications des feuilles d'avis sont vérifiées par le bureau d'échange destinataire. Si ce bureau constate une erreur dans les nombres inscrits, il rectifie la feuille et signale immédiatement l'erreur au bureau d'échange expéditeur au moyen d'un bulletin de vérification conforme au modèle C 16 ci-annexé. Toutefois, en ce qui concerne le poids d'un sac, l'indication du bureau d'échange expéditeur est tenue pour valable, à moins que le poids réel ne dépasse de plus de 250 grammes le poids maximum de la catégorie dans laquelle ce sac a été inscrit.
ARTICLE 155.
Confection des relevés des dépêches closes.
1. Aussitôt que possible après la clôture des opérations de statistique, les bureaux destinataires dressent en autant d'expéditions qu'il y a d'Administrations intéressées, y compris celle du lieu de départ, des relevés conformes au modèle C 17 ci-annexé et transmettent ces relevés aux bureaux d'échange de l'Administration expéditrice pour être revêtus de leur acceptation . Ces bureaux, après avoir accepté les relevés, les transmettent à leur Administration centrale qui les répartit entre les Administrations intéressées.
2. Si les relevés C 17 ne sont pas parvenus aux bureaux d'échange de l'Administration expéditrice ou leur sont parvenus en nombre insuffisant dans le délai de trois mois (quatre mois dans les échanges avec les Pays éloignés), à compter du jour de l'expédition de la dernière dépêche à comprendre dans la statistique, ces bureaux dressent eux-mêmes lesdits relevés, en nombre suffisant, d'après leurs propres indications et en inscrivant sur chacun d'eux la mention : «Les relevés C 17 du bureau destinataire ne sont pas parvenus dans le délai réglementaire.» Ils les transmettent ensuite à leur Administration centrale qui les répartit entre les Administrations en cause.
ARTICLE 156.
Liste des dépêches closes échangées en transit. 1.- Aussitôt que possible et, au plus tard, dans un délai de trois mois après chaque période de statistique, sauf le cas où la voie d'acheminement n'a pu être constatée dans ce délai, les Administrations qui ont expédié des dépêches en transit envoient, sur formule conforme au modèle C 18 ci-annexé, la liste de ces dépêches aux différentes Administrations dont elles ont emprunté l'intermédiaire . 2. -- Si cette liste indique des dépêches en transit qui, d'après les dispositions de l'article 153, ne donnent pas lieu à l'établissement d'un releve C 17, elle doit porter une mention explicative, telle que Sacs vides », «Correspondances exemptes».
ARTICLE 157.
Dépêches closes échangées avec des bâtiments de guerre .
1. Il incombe aux Administrations des Pays dont relèvent des bâtiments de guerre de dresser les relevés C 17 relatifs aux dépêches expédiées ou reçues par ces bâtiments. Les dépêches expédiées, pendant la période de statistique, à l'adresse des bâtiments de guerre doivent porter, sur des étiquettes, la date d'expédition.
2. Dans le cas où ces dépêches sont réexpédiées, l'Administration réexpéditrice en informe l'Administration du Pays dont le bâtiment relève.
ARTICLE 158.
Bulletin de transit.
1. Lorsque la route à suivre et les services de transport à utiliser pour les dépêches expédiées pendant la période de statistique sont inconnus ou incertains, l'Administration d'origine doit, à la demande de l'Administration destinataire, préparer pour chaque dépêche un bulletin de couleur verte conforme au modèle C 19 ci-annexé. L'Administration d'origine peut également expédier ce bulletin sans une demande formelle de l'Administration destinataire, si les circonstances paraissent l'exiger.

3238

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2. Les feuilles d'avis des dépêches qui donnent lieu à l'établissement dudit bulletin doivent être revêtues, en tête, de l'annotation très apparente « Bulletin de transit». La même mention soulignée au crayon rouge est portée sur les étiquettes spéciales « Statistique» dont il est question à l'article 153.
3. --- Le bulletin de transit doit être transmis à découvert avec les dépêches auxquelles il se rapporte, aux différents services qui participent à leur transport . Dans chaque Pays intéressé, les bureaux d'échange d'entrée et de sortie, à l'exclusion de tout autre bureau intermédiaire, consignent sur le bulletin les renseignements concernant le transit effectué par eux. Le dernier bureau d'échange intermédiaire transmet le bulletin C 19 au bureau de destination . Le bulletin est renvoyé ensuite par ce bureau au bureau d'origine à l'appui du relevé C 17. Lorsqu'un bulletin de transit dont l'expédition a été demandée ou est annoncée en tête de la feuille d'avis fait défaut, le bureau de destination est tenu de le réclamer sans aucun retard.
ARTICLE 159.
Dérogations aux articles 154, 155 et 158. 1. Chaque Pays a la faculté de notifier aux autres Pays, par l'intermédiaire du Bureau international, que les bulletins de vérification modèle C 16, les relevés modèle C 17 et les bulletins de transit modèle C 19 doivent être adressés à son Administration centrale . 2. -- Cette dernière est, dans ce cas, substituée aux bureaux d'échange pour l'établissement des relevés C 17 conformément aux prescriptions de l'article 155, § 2.
ARTICLE 160.
Services extraordinaires.
Sont seuls considérés comme services extraordinaires donnant lieu à des frais de transit spéciaux, le service entretenu pour le transport territorial accéléré de la Malle dite des Indes et les services spéciaux automobiles Palestine ou Syrie- Iraq .
CHAPITRE II.
Comptabilité. Règlement des comptes.
ARTICLE 161.
Compte des frais de transit. 1. - Pour l'établissement des comptes de transit, les sacs légers, moyens ou lourds, tels qu'ils sont définis à l'article 154, sont portés en compte respectivement pour les poids moyens de 3, 12 ou 24 kilogrammes. 2. - Les montants totaux de l'avoir pour les dépêches closes sont multipliés par 26 ou 13, selon le cas, et le produit sert de base à des comptes particuliers établissant en francs les sommes annuelles revenant à chaque Administration. 3. Dans le cas où le multiplicateur 26 ou 13 ne répond pas au trafic normal, les Administrations intéressées s'entendent pour l'adoption d'un autre multiplicateur qui vaut pendant les années auxquelles s'applique la statistique. 4. Le soin de dresser les comptes incombe à l'Administration créancière qui les transmet à l'Administration débitrice . 5. Afin de tenir compte du poids des sacs et de l'emballage ainsi que des catégories de correspondances exemptes de tous frais de transit en conformité des dispositions de l'article 68 de la Convention, le montant total du compte des dépêches closes est réduit de 10 %. 6. Les comptes particuliers sont dressés en double expédition , sur formule conforme au modèle C 20 ci-annexé, et d'après les relevés C 17. Ils sont transmis à l'Administration expéditrice aussitôt que possible et, au plus tard, dans un délai de dix mois suivant l'expiration de la période de statistique, accompagnés des relevés C 17 y relatifs.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3239

7. Si l'Administration qui a envoyé le compte particulier n'a reçu aucune observation rectificative dans un intervalle de quatre mois à compter de l'envoi, ce compte est considéré comme admis de plein droit.
ARTICLE 162.
Décompte général annuel. Intervention du Bureau international.
1. - Le décompte général comprenant les frais de transit est établi annuellement par le Bureau international; exceptionnellement, les Administrations peuvent, si elles le jugent utile, convenir de régler leurs comptes directement entre elles.
2. Aussitôt que les comptes particuliers entre deux Administrations sont approuvés ou considérés comme admis de plein droit (art. 161, § 7), chacune de ces Administrations transmet sans retard, au Bureau international, un relevé conforme au modèle C 21 ci-annexé et indiquant les montants totaux de ces comptes. En même temps, une copie du relevé est adressée à l'Administration intéressée.
3. Dans le solde, il est fait abandon des centimes.
4. En cas de différences entre les indications correspondantes fournies par deux Administrations, le Bureau international les invite à se mettre d'accord et à lui indiquer les sommes définitivement arrêtées.
5. Lorsqu'une Administration seulement a fourni le relevé C 21, les indications de cette Administration font foi.
6. Dans le cas prévu à l'article 161, § 7, les relevés doivent porter la mention «Aucune observation de l'Administration débitrice n'est parvenue dans le délai réglementaire ».
7. - Si deux Administrations se mettent d'accord pour faire un règlement spécial, leurs relevés C 21 portent la mention «Compte réglé à part à titre d'information» et ne sont pas compris dans le décompte général annuel.
8. Le Bureau international établit, à la fin de chaque année, sur la base des relevés qui lui sont parvenus jusque-là et qui sont considérés comme admis de plein droit, un décompte général annuel des frais de transit. Le cas échéant, il se conforme à la règle fixée à l'article 152, § 5, pour les payements annuels.
9. Le décompte indique : a) le Doit et l'Avoir de chaque Administration ; b) le solde débiteur ou le solde créditeur de chaque Administration ; c) les sommes à payer par les Administrations débitrices ; d) les sommes à recevoir par les Administrations créancières.
10. Le Bureau international procède par voie de compensation, de manière à restreindre au minimum le nombre des payements à effectuer.
11. Les décomptes généraux annuels doivent être transmis aux Administrations par le Bureau international, aussitôt que possible et, au plus tard , avant l'expiration du premier trimestre de l'année qui suit celle de leur établissement.
ARTICLE 163.
Liquidation des frais de transit.
1. Le solde résultant du décompte général annuel du Bureau international ou des règlements spéciaux, y compris, le cas échéant, la régularisation prévue à l'article 152, § 5, est payé par l'Administration débitrice à l'Administration créancière de l'une des manières suivantes :
a) au choix de l'Administration débitrice, en or ou au moyen de chèques ou de traites répondant aux conditions prévues au § 2 ci-après et payables à vue sur la capitale ou sur une place commerciale du Pays créancier;
b) suivant accord entre les deux Administrations, par l'intermédiaire d'une banque utilisant le service des virements de la Banque des Règlements Internationaux à Bâle ou par tout autre moyen ;
c) conformément aux dispositions des accords spéciaux monétaires qui peuvent exister entre les Pays dont relèvent les Administrations en question.

3240

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2. En cas de payement au moyen de chèques ou traites, conformément à la lettre a) du § 1, ces chèques ou traites sont exprimés en monnaie d'un Pays où la banque centrale d'émission ou une autre institution officielle d'emission achète et vend de l'or ou des devises-or contre la monnaie natio-
nale à des taux fixes déterminés par la loi ou en vertu d'un arrangement avec le Gouvernement. Si les monnaies de plusieurs Pays répondent à ces conditions, c'est au Pays créancier de désigner la monnaie qui lui convient. Les pertes ou les gains éventuels provenant d'une baisse ou d'une hausse imprévues de la parité-or de la monnaie en cause se produisant jusqu'au jour inclus de la réception du chèque ou de la traite, sont partagés également entre les deux Administrations. Toutefois, au cas de retard dans l'envoi du chèque ou de la traite délivrés, l'Administration débitrice est responsable des pertes entraînées par le délai injustifié qui a pu s'écouler entre la délivrance par la banque et l'expédition; la moitié des gains effectifs réalisés doit également lui être bonifiée. Dans tous ces cas, les différences ne dépassant pas 5 % sont négligées, les conditions de payement fixées par le présent article sont observées pour le règlement des différences et les délais de règlement courent du jour de la réception du chèque ou de la traite.
3. Lorsque les deux Pays se sont mis d'accord à ce sujet, les chèques ou traites peuvent être exprimés aussi en monnaie du Pays créancier, même si cette monnaie ne répond pas aux conditions prévues au § 2. Dans ce cas, le solde est converti au pair des monnaies d'or en monnaie d'un Pays répondant aux conditions prévues au § 2. Le résultat obtenu est ensuite converti dans la monnaie du Pays débiteur et de celle-ci dans la monnaie du Pays créancier, respectivement d'après les cours de vente et d'achat officiels dans le Pays débiteur, le jour ou la veille de l'achat du chèque ou de la traite. Le Pays créancier peut également spécifier que la conversion du solde exprimé en or sera effectuée d'après la valeur-or fixée pour sa monnaie par le Fonds monétaire international. Lorsqu'une variation notable du pair ou des cours ayant servi de bases à la conversion s'est produite, les règles indiquées au § 2, phrases 3 et suivantes, sont appliquées, sauf s'il s'agit d'une hausse ou d'une baisse résultant d'une réévaluation ou d'une dévaluation de la monnaie du Pays créancier.
4. Lorsque le montant du solde dépasse 5000 francs, la date de l'envoi d'un chèque ou d'une traite, la date de son achat et son montant doivent, si l'Administration créditrice le demande, Jui être notifiés par télégramme et à ses frais.
5. Les frais de payement sont supportés par l'Administration débitrice à l'exception des frais extraordinaires, tels les frais de clearing, inposés par le Pays créditeur.
6. Le payement précité doit être effectué dans le plus bref délai possible et, au plus tard, avant l'expiration d'un délai de quatre mois à partir de la date d'envoi du décompte par le Bureau international ou de l'invitation à payer, adressée par l'Administration créancière à l'Administration débitrice, quand il s'agit d'un compte réglé à part. Ce délai peut être porté à cinq mois dans les relations entre Pays éloignés. Passé ces délais, les sommes dues sont productives d'intérêt à raison de 5 % l'an, à compter du jour d'expiration desdits délais.
7. Si le payement n'est pas effectué un an après l'expiration des délais fixés au § 6, il est loisible à l'Administration créancière, en ce qui concerne les sommes dont le décompte est établi par le Bureau international, d'en informer ledit Bureau lequel invite l'Administration débitrice à payer dans un délai qui ne doit pas dépasser quatre mois.
8. - Si le payement des sommes prévues au § 7 n'est pas effectué à l'expiration de ce nouveau délai , le Bureau international les fait figurer dans le décompte général annuel suivant, à l'Avoir de l'Administration créancière. Dans ce cas, des intérêts composés sont dus, c'est-à-dire que l'intérêt est ajouté au capital à la fin de chaque année jusqu'au moment du payement.
9. En cas d'application des dispositions du § 8, le décompte général dont il s'agit et ceux des quatre années qui suivent ne doivent, autant que possible, pas contenir, dans les soldes résultant du tableau de compensation , des sommes à payer par l'Administration défaillante à l'Administration créancière intéressée.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5 , 1947

3241

TITRE VII.
Dispositions diverses.
CHAPITRE UNIQUE.
ARTICLE 164.
Coupons-réponse internationaux.
1. Les coupons-réponse internationaux sont conformes au modele C 22 ci-annexé . Ils sont imprimés, sur papier portant en filigrane les lettres UPU en grands caractères, par les soins du Bureau international qui les livre aux Administrations au prix coûtant.
2. Chaque Administration a la faculté : a) de donner aux coupons une perforation distinctive qui ne nuise pas à la lecture du texte et
ne soit pas de nature à entraver la vérification de ces valeurs ; b) de modifier, à la main ou au moyen d'un procédé d'impression, le prix de vente indiqué sur
les coupons. 3. Dans les décomptes entre Administrations, la valeur des coupons est calculée à raison de 28 centimes par unité. 4.- Sauf entente contraire, les coupons échangés sont envoyés annuellement, au plus tard dans un délai de trois mois après expiration de l'année, aux Administrations qui les ont émis, avec l'indi-cation globale de leur nombre et de leur valeur sur un relevé conforme au modèle C 23 ci-annexé. 5. Aussitôt que deux Administrations se sont mises d'accord sur le nombre des coupons échangés dans leurs relations réciproques, elles dressent chacune et transmettent au Bureau international un relevé conforme au modèle C 24 ci-annexé indiquant le solde débiteur ou créditeur, si ce solde dépasse 25 francs et si un règlement spécial n'a pas été prévu entre les deux Pays. En même temps, une copie du relevé C 24 est adressée à l'Administration intéressée. A defaut d'accord dans un délai de six mois, l'Administration créancière établit son décompte et l'envoie au Bureau international, 6. Dans le cas où l'une des Administrations seulement fournit son relevé, les indications de celui-ci font foi.
7. Le solde, dans lequel il est fait abandon des centimes, est compris par le Bureau international dans un décompte annuel et le payement a lieu dans les conditions prévues à l'article 163.
8. Lorsque le solde annuel entre deux Administrations ne dépasse pas 25 francs, l'Administration débitrice est exonérée de tout payement.
ARTICLE 165.
Cartes d'identité postales. 1. - Chaque Administration désigne les bureaux ou les services qui délivrent les cartes d'identité postales. 2. Ces cartes sont établies sur des formules conformes au modèle C 25 ci-annexé. Ces formules sont fournies, au prix coûtant, par le Bureau international. 3. Au moment de la demande, le requérant remet sa photographie et justifie de son identité. Les Administrations édictent les prescriptions nécessaires pour que les cartes ne soient délivrées qu'après examen minutieux de l'identité du requérant. 4. L'agent inscrit cette demande sur un registre, remplit à l'encre et en caractères latins à la main ou à la machine à écrire, sans ratures ni surcharges, toutes les indications, que comporte la formule de carte, et fixe sur celle-ci la photographie à l'endroit désigné, applique mi-partie sur cette photographie et mi-partie sur la carte un timbre-poste représentant la taxe perçue et annule cette figurine au moyen d'une empreinte bien nette du timbre à date. Il appose ensuite de nouveau l'empreinte de

3242

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ce timbre ou de son sceau officiel, de manière qu'elle porte à la fois sur la partie supérieure de la photographie et sur la carte, puis reproduit cette empreinte à la troisième page de la carte, signe celle-ci et la remet à l'intéressé après avoir recueilli sa signature.
5. Lorsque la physionomie du titulaire s'est modifiée au point qu'elle ne réponde plus à la photographie ou au signalement, la carte doit être renouvelée .
6. Chaque Pays conserve la faculté de délivrer les cartes du service international selon les règles appliquées pour les cartes en usage dans son service intérieur.
7. Les Administrations peuvent ajouter, à la formule C 25, un feuillet destiné à recevoir des annotations spéciales pour les besoins de leur service interne.

ARTICLE 166.
Dépêches échangées avec des bâtiments de guerre. 1. L'établissement d'un échange, en dépêches closes, entre une Administration postale et des divisions navales ou des bâtiments de guerre de même nationalité, ou entre une division navale ou un bâtiment de guerre et une autre division navale ou un autre bâtiment de guerre de même nationalité, doit être notifié, autant que possible à l'avance, aux Administrations intermédiaires. 2. - La suscription de ces dépêches est rédigée comme suit :

Du bureau de Pour la division navale (nationalité) de (désignation de la division) a le bâtiment (nationalité) le (nom du bâtiment) à . ou
De la division navale (nationalité) de (désignation de la division) à Du bâtiment (nationalité) le (nom du bâtiment) à Pour le bureau de
ou
De la division navale (nationalité) de (désignation de la division) à Du bâtiment (nationalité) le (nom du bâtiment) à .
Pour la division navale (nationalité) de (désignation de la division) à le bâtiment (nationalité) le (nom du bâtiment) à

(Pays)
1 (Pays)
(Pays) 1
(Pays)

3. Les dépêches à destination ou provenant de divisions navales ou de bâtiments de guerre sont acheminées, sauf indication d'une voie spéciale sur l'adresse, par les voies les plus rapides et dans les mêmes conditions que les dépêches échangées entre bureaux de poste.
4. - Le capitaine d'un paquebot postal qui transporte des dépêches à destination d'une division navale ou d'un bâtiment de guerre les tient à la disposition du commandant de la division ou du bâtiment destinataire en prévision du cas où celui-ci viendrait lui en demander la livraison en route.
5. - Si les bâtiments ne se trouvent pas au lieu de destination quand les dépêches à leur adresse y parviennent, ces dépêches sont conservées au bureau de poste jusqu'à leur retrait par le destinataire ou leur réexpédition sur un autre point. La réexpédition peut être demandée, soit par l'Administration postale d'origine, soit par le commandant de la division navale ou du bâtiment destinataire, soit enfin par un Consul de même nationalité.
6. Celles des dépêches dont il s'agit qui portent la mention Aux soins du Consul d .. » sont consignées au Consulat indiqué. Elles peuvent ultérieurement, à la demande du Consul, être réintégrées dans le service postal et réexpédiées sur le lieu d'origine ou sur une autre destination.
7. - Les dépêches à destination d'un bâtiment de guerre sont considérées comme étant en transit jusqu'à leur remise au commandant de ce bâtiment, alors même qu'elles auraient été primitivement adressées aux soins d'un bureau de poste ou à un Consul chargé de zervir d'agent de transport intermédiaire ; elles ne sont donc pas considérées comme étant parvenues à leur adresse tant qu'elles n'ont pas été livrées au bâtiment de guerre destinataire.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3243

ARTICLE 167.
Bulletins d'affranchissement. Décompte des frais de douane, etc.
1. Le décompte relatif aux frais de douane, etc., déboursés par chaque Administration pour le compte d'une autre, est effectué au moyen de comptes particuliers mensuels conformes au modèle  26 ci-annexé, qui sont établis par l'Administration débitrice dans la monnaie du Pays créancier. Les bulletins d'affranchissement sont inscrits par ordre alphabétique des bureaux qui ont fait l'avance des frais et suivant l'ordre numérique qui leur a été donné .
2. Si les deux Administrations intéressées assurent également le service des colis postaux dans leurs relations réciproques, elles peuvent comprendre, sauf avis contraire, dans les décomptes des bulletins d'affranchissement de ce dernier service, ceux de la poste aux lettres.
3. Le compte particulier, accompagné des bulletins d'affranchissement, est transmis à l'Administration créancière au plus tard à la fin du mois qui suit celui auquel il se rapporte . Il n'est pas dressé de compte négatif.
4. La vérification des comptes a lieu dans les conditions fixées par le Règlement des mandats de poste.
5. Les décomptes donnent lieu à une liquidation spéciale . Chaque Administration peut, toutefois, demander que ces comptes soient annexés aux comptes des mandats de poste ou aux comptes CP 16 des colis postaux ou R 5 des remboursements.
ARTICLE 168.
Formules à l'usage du public .
En vue de l'application des dispositions de l'article 33, § 2, de la Convention, sont considérées comme formules à l'usage du public les formules :
C 1 (Etiquette de douane), C 2 (Déclaration en douane), C 3 (Bulletin d'affranchissement), C 5 (Avis de réception), C 6 (Enveloppe de réexpédition),
retrait, C 7 (Demande de modification d'adresse ,
modification du montant du remboursement), C 8 (R éclamation d'un envoi ordinaire non parvenu), C 9 (Réclamation d'un envoi recommandé, etc.), C 22 (Coupon-réponse international), C 25 (Carte d'identité postale).
ARTICLE 169.
Délai de garde des documents.
Les documents du service international doivent être conservés pendant une période minimum de deux ans à partir du lendemain de la date à laquelle ces documents se réfèrent.
ARTICLE 170.
Adresse télégraphique.
1. -Les Administrations font usage, pour les communications télégraphiques qu'elles échangent entre elles, de l'adresse télégraphique « Postgen », suivie de l'indication de la ville où se trouve le siège de l'Administration centrale.
2. Pour les communications adressées à des bureaux autres que l'Administration centrale du Pays de destination, l'adresse télégraphique doit être « Postbur», suivie de l'indication de la ville à laquelle le télégramme est adressé.

3244

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

TITRE VIII.
Bureau international.
CHAPITRE UNIQUE.
ARTICLE 171.
Congrès et Conférences.
1. Le Bureau international prépare les travaux des Congrès et des Conférences. Il pourvoit aux impressions et à la distribution des documents nécessaires.
2. Le Directeur de ce Bureau assiste aux séances des Congrès et des Conférences et prend part aux discussions, sans voix délibérative.
ARTICLE 172.
Renseignements . Demandes de modification des Actes. 1. Le Bureau international doit se tenir en tout temps à la disposition de la Commission exécutive et de liaison et des membres de l'Union pour leur fournir, sur les questions relatives au service, les renseignements dont ils pourraient avoir besoin. 2. Il instruit les demandes de modification ou d'interprétation des dispositions qui régissent l'Union et notifie les résultats des consultations.
ARTICLE 173. Publications.
1. Le Bureau international rédige, à l'aide des documents qui sont mis à sa disposition, un journal spécial en langues anglaise, arabe, chinoise, espagnole, française et russe.
2. - Il publie, d'après les informations fournies en vertu des prescriptions de l'article 181 ci-après, un recueil officiel de tous les renseignements d'intérêt général concernant l'exécution de la Convention et de son Règlement dans chaque Pays.
3. Des recueils analogues concernant l'exécution des Arrangements sont publiés sur la demande des Administrations participant à ces Arrangements.
4. Le Bureau international publie également, au moyen des éléments fournis par les Administrations :
a) un recueil de renseignements sur l'organisation des Administrations de l'Union et sur leurs services internes ;
b) un recueil des taxes appliquées par les Administrations dans leur service interne ; c) une liste des objets interdits ; d) une liste des lignes de paquebots ; e) une liste des distances kilométriques afférentes aux parcours territoriaux; f) une liste des Pays éloignés et assimilés ; g) un tableau des équivalents.
5. Les modifications éventuelles apportées aux divers documents énumérés aux §§ 2 à 4 sont notifiées par circulaire, bulletin ou par tout moyen convenable.
6.- Les documents publiés par le Bureau international sont distribués aux Administrations dans la proportion du nombre d'unités contributives assignées à chacune d'elles par application de l'article 27 de la Convention . Les exemplaires supplémentaires de ces documents qui seraient réclamés par les Administrations sont payés à part, d'après leur prix de revient.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3245

7. Le Bureau international est chargé de publier un dictionnaire alphabétique de tous les bureaux de poste du monde, complété par des renseignements généraux rédigés dans les langues énumérées au § 1 et indiquant entre autres les services auxquels chaque Pays participe. Ce dictionnaire est tenu au courant au moyen de suppléments ou de toute autre manière que le Bureau international juge convenable. Le dictionnaire est distribué aux Administrations à raison de 10 exemplaires par unité contributive assignée à chacune d'elles par application de l'article 27 de la Convention. Les exemplaires supplémentaires demandés par les Administrations sont payés à part, d'après leur prix de revient .
8. Le dictionnaire peut être vendu au public par les soins du Bureau international, à un prix commercial à fixer par ce dernier.
ARTICLE 174.
Rapport annuel .
Le Bureau international fait sur sa gestion un rapport annuel qu'il transmet à la Commission exécutive et de liaison pour être communiqué par celle-ci à toutes les Administrations.
ARTICLE 175.
Langue officielle du Bureau international.
La langue officielle du Bureau international est la langue française.
ARTICLE 176.
Coupons-réponse internationaux. Cartes d'identité postales.
Le Bureau international est chargé de faire confectionner les coupons-réponse internationaux et les cartes d'identité postales et d'en approvisionner, sur leur demande, les Administrations.
ARTICLE 177.
Balance et liquidation des comptes.
1. Le Bureau international est chargé d'opérer la balance et la liquidation des comptes de toute nature relatifs au service international des postes entre les Administrations qui déclarent vouloir emprunter son intermédiaire. Celles-ci se concertent, à cet effet, entre elles et avec ce Bureau .
2. - Sur la demande des Administrations intéressées, les décomptes télégraphiques peuvent aussi être indiqués au Bureau international pour entrer dans la compensation des soldes.
3. -- Chaque Administration conserve le droit d'établir à son choix des décomptes spéciaux pour diverses branches du service et d'en opérer à sa convenance le règlement avec ses correspondants, sans employer l'intermédiaire du Bureau international, auquel elle se borne à indiquer pour quelles branches de service et pour quels Pays elle réclame ses offices.
4. Les Administrations qui empruntent l'intermédiaire du Bureau international pour la balance et la liquidation des décomptes peuvent cesser d'user de cet intermédiaire trois mois après en avoir donné avis.
ARTICLE 178.
Etablissement des comptes.
1. Lorsque les comptes particuliers ont été débattus et arrêtés d'un commun accord, les Administrations débitrices transmettent aux Administrations créancières, pour chaque nature d'opérations, une reconnaissance, établie en francs et centimes, du montant de la balance des deux comptes particuliers, avec l'indication de l'objet de la créance et de la période à laquelle elle se rapporte.
2. Sauf entente contraire, l'Administration qui désire, pour sa comptabilité intérieure, avoir des comptes généraux , doit les établir elle-même et les soumettre à l'acceptation de l'Administration correspondante .
3. Les Administrations peuvent s'entendre pour pratiquer un autre système dans leurs relations.

3246

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

4. - Chaque Administration adresse au Bureau international mensuellement ou trimestriellement, si des circonstances spéciales le rendent désirable, un tableau indiquant son Avoir du chef des décomptes particuliers ainsi que le total des sommes dont elle est créancière envers chacune des Administrations contractantes ; chaque créance figurant dans ce tableau doit être justifiée par une reconnaissance de l'Administration débitrice.
5. Ce tableau doit parvenir au Bureau international le 19 de chaque mois ou du premier mois de chaque trimestre au plus tard . A défaut, il n'est compris que dans la liquidation du mois ou du trimestre suivant.
6. Le Bureau international examine, en rapprochant les reconnaissances, si les tableaux sont exacts. Toute rectification nécessaire est notifiée aux Administrations intéressées.
7. Le Doit de chaque Administration envers une autre est reporté dans un tableau récapitulatif; l'addition des sommes portées dans les diverses colonnes de ce tableau forme le solde débiteur global de chaque Administration .
ARTICLE 179.
Balance générale .
1. Le Bureau international réunit les tableaux et les récapitulations en une balance générale indiquant :
a) le total du Doit et de l'Avoir de chaque Administration ; b) le solde débiteur ou le solde créditeur de chaque Administration ; c) les sommes à payer par les Administrations débitrices et la répartition de ces sommes entre les
Administrations créancières.
2. Il veille, dans la mesure du possible, à ce que chaque Administration n'ait à effectuer, pour se libérer, qu'un ou deux payements distincts.
3. Toutefois, l'Administration qui se trouve habituellement à découvert envers une autre Administration d'une somme supérieure à 50 000 francs a le droit de réclamer des acomptes.
4. Ces acomptes sont inscrits, tant par l'Administration créancière que par l'Administration débitrice, au bas des tableaux à adresser au Bureau international.
5. Les reconnaissances transmises au Bureau international avec les tableaux sont classées par Administration . Elles servent de base pour l'établissement de la liquidation des comptes de chacune des Administrations intéressées. Dans cette liquidation doivent figurer :
a) les sommes afférentes aux comptes spéciaux portant sur les divers échanges ; b) le total des sommes résultant de tous les comptes spéciaux par rapport à chacune des Adminis-
trations intéressées ; c) les totaux des sommes dues à toutes les Administrations créancières pour chaque branche du
service ainsi que leur total général. Ce total doit être égal au total du Doit qui figure dans la récapitulation. 6. -- Au bas du bordereau de liquidation, la balance est établie entre le Doit et l'Avoir résultant des tableaux adressés par les Administrations au Bureau international . Le montant net du Doit ou de l'Avoir doit être égal au solde débiteur ou au solde créditeur porté dans la balance générale. En outre, le bordereau indique les Administrations en faveur desquelles le payement doit être effectué par l'Administration débitrice.
7. Les bordereaux de liquidation doivent être transmis aux Administrations intéressées, par le Bureau international, au plus tard le 22 de chaque mois .
ARTICLE 180.
Payement .
1. - Le payement des sommes dues, en vertu d'une liquidation , par une Administration à une autre Administration, doit être effectué aussitôt que possible et au plus tard quinze jours après la réception du bordereau de liquidation par l'Administration débitrice . Les dispositions de l'article 163, § 1 , sont applicables, en ce qui concerne les autres conditions de payement. Les dispositions du § 6 dudit article font règle en cas de non-payement du solde dans le délai fixé.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION--JULY 5 , 1947

3247

2. Les soldes débiteurs ou créditeurs n'excédant pas 500 francs peuvent être reportés à la liquidation du mois suivant, à la condition toutefois que les Administrations intéressées soient en rapport mensuel avec le Bureau international. Il est fait mention de ce report dans les récapitulations et dans les liquidations pour les Administrations créancières et débitrices . L'Administration débitrice fait parvenir, le cas échéant, à l'Administration créancière, une reconnaissance de la somme due, pour être portée au prochain tableau.
ARTICLE 181.
Communications à adresser au Bureau international.
1. - Les Administrations se transmettent, par l'intermédiaire du Bureau international, la collection en trois exemplaires de leurs timbres-poste et des impressions-types de leurs machines à affranchir, avec indication de la date à partir de laquelle les timbres-poste des émissions antérieures cessent d'avoir cours.
2. - Elles doivent, en outre, communiquer au Bureau international : a) la mention qu'elles ont adoptée, par application de l'article 106, § 4, comme équivalent de
l'expression «Taxe perçue» ou « Port pay » ; b) les taxes réduites qu'elles ont adoptées en vertu de l'article 6 de la Convention et l'indication
des relations auxquelles ces taxes sont applicables ; c) l'indication des surtaxes qu'elles perçoivent pour frais de transport extraordinaire en vertu des
articles 39 et 69 de la Convention ainsi que la nomenclature des Pays auxquels s'appliquent ces surtaxes et, s'il y a lieu , la désignation des services qui en motivent la perception; d) tous les renseignements utiles concernant les prescriptions douanières ou autres ainsi que les interdictions ou restrictions réglant l'importation et le transit des envois postaux dans leurs services ; e) le nombre de déclarations en douane éventuellement exigé pour les envois soumis au contrôle douanier à destination de leur Pays et les langues dans lesquelles ces déclarations peuvent être rédigées ; f) l'indication qu'elles admettent ou non, dans les envois affranchis au tarif des lettres ou des échantillons, des objets passibles de droits de douane ; g) la liste des distances kilométriques pour les parcours territoriaux suivis dans leur Pays par les dépêches en transit ; h) la liste des lignes de paquebots en partance de leurs ports et utilisées pour le transport des dépêches avec indication des parcours, des distances et des durées de parcours entre le port d'embarquement et chacun des ports d'escale successifs, de la périodicité du service et des Pays auxquels les frais de transit maritime, en cas d'utilisation des paquebots, doivent être payés; i) leur liste des Pays éloignés et assimilés ; j) leur décision au sujet de la faculté d'appliquer ou non certaines dispositions générales de la Convention et du Règlement; k) les renseignements utiles sur leur organisation et leurs services internes ; 1) leurs taxes postales intérieures. 3. Toute modification aux renseignements visés au § 2 doit être notifiée sans retard. 4. Les Administrations doivent fournir au Bureau international deux exemplaires des documents qu'elles publient, tant sur le service intérieur que sur le service international.
ARTICLE 182.
Statistiques postales.
1. Sur la base des renseignements recueillis par le moyen de questionnaires qui sont transmis aux Administrations 4 mois au moins avant le commencement de l'année à laquelle ils se réfèrent, le Bureau international publie:
a) tous les 3 ans: 1º une « Statistique complète des services postaux», comprenant 5 parties: I. Généralités; II. Organisation des postes; III. Trafic; IV. Correspondances-rebut et V. Résultat financier; 2º une Statistique des Expéditions dans le Service postal international»;

3248

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

b) chaque année intermédiaire, où les publications mentionnées sous a) ne paraissent pas, une « Statistique réduite des services postaux», qui ne porte que sur les parties 111. Trafic et V. Résultat financier. 2. Les opérations de service qui donnent lieu à enregistrement font l'objet de relevés pério-
diques, d'après les écritures effectuées.
3. Pour toutes les autres opérations, il est procédé chaque année à un comptage des objets de toute nature, sans distinction entre les lettres, cartes postales, papiers d'affaires, imprimés, échantillons de marchandises et petits paquets et, au moins tous les trois ans, à un dénombrement des différentes catégories de correspondances. Chaque Administration fixe elle-même l'époque et la durée de ces comptages.
4. - Dans l'intervalle qui s'écoule entre les statistiques spéciales, le dénombrement des différentes catégories est fait d'après les chiffres proportionnels tirés de la précédente statistique spéciale .
5.- Le Bureau international établit et distribue les questionnaires statistiques à remplir par chaque Administration. Il fournit aux Administrations qui en font la demande toutes les indications nécessaires sur les règles à suivre pour assurer l'uniformité des opérations de statistique .
ARTICLE 183.
Dépenses du Bureau international.
1. Les dépenses ordinaires du Bureau international ne doivent pas dépasser, par année, la somme de 500 000 francs.
2. L'Administration des postes suisses surveille les dépenses du Bureau international, fait les avances nécessaires et établit le compte annuel qui est communiqué aux autres Administrations.
3. Les sommes avancées par l'Administration des postes suisses, suivant le § 2, doivent être remboursées par les Administrations débitrices dans le plus bref délai possible, et au plus tard avant le 31 décembre de l'année d'envoi du compte. Passé ce délai, les sommes dues sont productives d'intérêt au profit de ladite Administration à raison de 5 % l'an, à compter du jour d'expiration dudit délai.
4. Les Pays de l'Union sont classés ainsi qu'il suit en vue de la répartition des frais: 1re classe : Union de l'Afrique du Sud, Allemagne, Etats-Unis d'Amérique, République Argentine, Commonwealth de l'Australie, Brésil, Canada, Chine, Espagne, France, Royaume-Uni de la GrandeBretagne et de l'Irlande du Nord, Inde, Italie, Japon, Nouvelle-Zélande, Union des Républiques Soviétiques Socialistes ; 2e classe: 3e classe : Ensemble des Possessions des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Belgique, Egypte, Algérie, Indochine, Ensemble des autres Territoires d'Outre-mer de la République Française et des Territoires administrés comme tels, Ensemble des Territoires britanniques d'Outre-mer, y compris les Colonies, les Protectorats et les Territoires sous mandat ou sous tutelle exercé par le Gouvernement du Royaume-Uni de la Grande-Bretagne et de l'Irlande du Nord, Mexique, Pays-Bas, Indes néerlandaises, Pologne, Roumanie, Suède, Confédération Suisse, Tchécoslovaquie, Turquie, République Soviétique Socialiste d'Ukraine, République Fédérative Populaire de Yougoslavie; 4º classe: Corée, Danemark, Finlande, Hongrie , Irlande, Norvège, Portugal, Colonies portugaises de l'Afrique occidentale, Colonies portugaises de l'Afrique orientale, de l'Asie et de l'Océanie : 5e classe: Autriche, République Soviétique Socialiste de Biélorussie, République Populaire de Bulgarie, Chili, République de Colombie, Grèce, Iran, Maroc (à l'exclusion de la Zone espagnole), Maroc (Zone espagnole), Pérou, Tunisie ; 6e classe : Afghanistan, République Populaire d'Albanie, Bolivie, République de Costa-Rica, République de Cuba, République Dominicaine, République de El Salvador, Equateur, Ethiopie, Guatemala, République d'Haïti, République du Honduras, Luxembourg, Nicaragua, République de Panama, Paraguay, Curaçao et Surinam, Siam, République Orientale de l'Uruguay, Etats-Unis de Vénézuela ; 7e classe : Royaume de l'Arabie Saoudite, Colonie du Congo belge, Ensemble des Colonies espagnoles, Iraq, République d'Islande, Liban, République de Libéria, République des Philippines, République de Saint-Marin, Syrie, Royaume Hachémite de Transjordanie, Etat de la Cité du Vatican, Yémen.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3249

Dispositions finales.
ARTICLE 184. Mise à exécution et durée du Règlement. 1. Le présent Règlement sera exécutoire à partir du jour de la mise en vigueur de la Convention postale universelle . 2. Il aura la même durée que cette Convention, à moins qu'il ne soit renouvelé d'un commun accord entre les Parties intéressées.
Fait à Paris, le 5 juillet 1947.
Signatures. (Les mêmes qu'aux pages 29 et suivantes.) [1]

1 For signatures , see p. 3188 ; for romanization , see p. 3416 .

3250

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. T

ANNEXE FORMULES

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3251

C1 (Reg ., art. 111.§ 1) DOUANE (peut être ouvert d'office) A remplir seulement en cas d'absence de déclaration séparée; sinon à détacher. Nature de la marchandise:
Poids net: Valeur :
(Dimensions: 44 x 62 mm. , couleur verte)

C4 (Règl., art. 128, § 4)

LAUSANNE 1

R

No 460

(Dimensions : 37x 13 mm .)

68706 0-51- PT. III- 41

3252

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

LIEU D'EXPÉDITION

C2 (Règl., art. 111, § 2)
LIEU DE DESTINATION

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d

DECLARATION EN DOUANE

ENVOIS Nombre Espèces

DESIGNATION DU CONTENU

VALEUR

POIDS

avec indication

précise de l'unité Brut Net OBSERVATIONS

monétaire employée Grammes Grammes

8

Pdaeysfabdr'iocraitgiionne doeu la marchandise:
A

(Rue et numéro) (Pays de destination)

(Lieu de destination)

le

19 .

L'expéditeur

(Dimensions: 125 x 176 ou 148 x 210 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3253

COUPON Timbre du bureau d'origine

PAYS D'ORIGINE

C 3 (Recto) (Règl., art. 112. §2)
Timbre du bureau d'origine

BULLETIN D'AFFRANCHISSEMENT

L'expéditeur d  avec valeur déclarée de déposé à
pour M à a payé les droits indiqués au verso.

L déclarée de Fr.  à l'adresse de Rue et numéro Lieu de destination Pays de destination doit être remis franc

*) No

de

" expédié par ...

de tous droits.

avec vàleur

(Signature de l'expéditeur)
A renvoyer au bureau d (Indiquer le nom du bureau chargé du recouvrement des frais ou, le cas échéant, celui du bureau auquel la formule doit être renvoyée.) *) Indiquer la nature de l'objet

(Dimensions : 148 x 105 mm., couleur jaune)

(Doit être imprimé en sens inverse du recto)

DÉTAIL DES DROITS DUS
(dans la monnaie du Pays destinataire)

TOTAL DES FRAIS DÉBOURSÉS (Voir le détail sur le coupon)

C 3 (Verso)
Timbre du bureau qui adefsaiftrali'savance

Droit de commission . Droits de douane. Droit de dédouanement. Autres frais
Total

en chiffres arabes
(dans la monnaie du Pays de destination de l'envoi) en chiffres arabes
soit (à convertir par l'Administration d'origine de l'envoi)

soit *)
Timbre du bureau recouvrant

Date de l'avance No du registre Bureau qui a fait Signature de l'agent l'avance

Registre d'arrivée No

Converti par (Signature de l'agent)

Timbre du bureau recouvrant

*) Dans la monnaie du Pays d'origine de l'envoi.

3254

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d

(Aremplir par le bureau d'origine)

Envoi recommandé (

)1)2)

Lettre Boîte avec valeur déclarée de
Colis

Mandat de poste de

déposé au bureau de poste d

Je expédié par M ct adressé à M à

19 sous le no

1) Indiquer dans la parenthèse la nature de l'envoi (lettre, 2) iBimfpfreirmlée,s ientcd.i)c.ations inutiles.

C 5 (Recto) (Règl., art. 129, § 2)

( RÉCEPTION AVIS DE
PAYEMENT

Timbre du bureau renvoyant l'avis

(A remplir par l'expéditeur qui mentionnera ci-dessous son adresse complète)

M

(Rue et numéro) à
(Lieu de destination, en gros caractères)
(Pays de destination) SERVICE DES POSTES

(Dimensions: 148 x 105 mm., couleur rouge clair)

C 5 (Verso)

Le

soussigné

déclare

que

l'envoi le mandat

mentionné

d'autre

part

livré a été dûment le

19

payé

Timdbersetidnautabiurreeau

du destinataire :

Signature ¹) de l'agent du bureau destinataire :

1) Cet avis doit être signé par le destinataire ou, si les règlements du Pays de destination le comportent, par l'agent du bureau destinataire et renvoyé par le premier courrier directement à l'expéditeur.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3255

Peut être ouvert par le bureau distributeur Montant des taxes à percevoir
SERVICE DES POSTES

C 6 (Recto) (Régl., art. 137, § 1)
Timbre à date

M (Nom du destinataire on nom du navire, d l'agent du bureau de voyage, etc.)
Aux soins de

(Rue et numéro)

(Bureau de destination) (Pays de destination)

(Dimensions : 229 × 162 mm.)

C 6 (Verso)

préosuevnetareAutr buproesadteu

3256

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d

C7 (Recto) (Règl., art. 139, §1)

BUREAU d

DEMANDE ¹) DE

RETRAIT 2) MODIFICATION D'ADRESSE 2) MODIFICATION DU MONTANT DU REMBOURSEMENT 2)

adressée à

DEMANDE PAR VOIE POSTALE (Note à transmettre sous pli recommandé et aux frais du requérant)

I. DEMANDE DE RETRAIT *)

Prière de renvoyer au bureau d

pour être remis à l'expéditeur 1.

numéro

adressé à votre bureau le

dont la suscription est conforme au fac-similé ci-joint.

(d'origine) (nature de l'objet)
19 et

II. DEMANDE DE MODIFICATION D'ADRESSE 2)

Prière de substituer a de l adressé à votre bureau le

(telle indication) (telle autre indication) sur la suscription (nature de l'objet) numéro 19 du bureau d et dont la suscription est conforme au fac-similé ci-joint.

III. DEMANDE D'ANNULATION OU DE MODIFICATION DU MONTANT DU REMBOURSEMENT 2)

Prière 2) 1 adressé

d'annuler de réduire à de porter à
(nature de l'objet) le.

(montant, les unités en toutes lettres)

le remboursement grevant

numéro

du bureau d

19 à

(adresse exacte du destinataire)

et dont la suscription est conforme au fac-similé ci-joint. Ci-joint le mandat de remboursement rectifié *).

Timbre du bureau

le

19

Le Chef de bureau d'où émane la demande:

, le

19

Signature de l'expéditeur:

1) Biffer le recto ou le verso, suivant le cas. Biffer les indications inutiles.
3) Biffer l'indication, s'il y a lieu.
(Dimensions : 210 x 297 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3257

Renvoyer (tel objet)

adressé

le

C 7 (Verso)
DEMANDE PAR VOIE TÉLÉGRAPHIQUE (Télégramme aux frais du réclamant ) I. DEMANDE DE RETRAIT ¹)
(numero) 19 à (adresse exacte du destinataire)

(Description: Indication éventuelle de l'expéditeur, format et couleur de l'envoi, cachet éventuel, annotations et signes de toute nature)

Postes (Sans signature)

II. DEMANDE DE MODIFICATION D'ADRESSE ¹) ²)

Substituer (telle indication) autre indication)

de l'objet, bordereau d'un envoi avec valeurs à iecouvrer)

adressé

le

(numero)

à (telle sur (nature

19

à (adresse exacle du destinataire)

(Description: Indication éventuelle de l'expéditeur, format et couleur de l'envoi, cachet éventue!, annotations el signes de toute nature)

Postes (Sans signature)

III. DEMANDE D'ANNULATION OU DE MODIFICATION DU MONTANT DU REMBOURSEMENT ¹) 2)

Annuler remboursement

1) Réduire à

Porter à

(montant, les unités en toutes lettres)

(nature de l'objet) adressé le

remboursement
numéro 19 à (adresse exacte du destinataire)

Timbre du bureau

le

19

Le chef du bureau d'où émane la demande :

Postes (Sans signature)

le

19

Signature de l'expéditeur :

1) Biffer les indications inutiles. Il ne peut être satisfait, le cas échéant, à cette demande qu'après réception du fac-similé par la poste.

3258

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d
BUREAU d

C 8 (Recto) (Règl., art. 140, § 1)
Timbre du burea expéditeur de la demande

RÉCLAMATION D'UN ENVOI ORDINAIRE NON PARVENU

I. RENSEIGNEMENTS À FOURNIR PAR LE RÉCLAMANT (EXPÉDITEUR OU DESTINATAIRE)

Demandes 1

Réponses 2

a) Nature de l'envoi (lettre, carte postale, papiers d'affaires, journal ou autre imprimé, échantillon ou pelit paquet)
b) Adresse portée sur l'envoi. c) Quelle est l'adresse exacte du destinataire ?
d) L'envoi était-il volumineux ?
e) Que renfermait-il? (Signalement aussi exact et complet que possible.)
f) Date précise ou approximative du dépôt à la poste.
g) Nom et domicile de l'expéditeur.
h) En cas de recherches fructueuses, à qui, de l'expéditeur ou du destinataire, doit-on faire parvenir l'envoi réclamé ?

II. RENSEIGNEMENTS À FOURNIR PAR L'EXPÉDITEUR

i) L'envoi était-il affranchi et, dans l'affirmative, quelle était la valeur des timbres-poste apposés?
i) Date et heure du dépôt à la poste.
k) Le dépôt a-t-il eu lieu au guichet ou à la boîte ? Dans ce dernier cas, à quelle bofte ?
1) Le dépôt a-t-il été effectué par l'expéditeur lui-même ou par un tiers? Dans ce dernier cas, par quelle personne ?

m) Renseignements particuliers du bureau d'origine

La présente formule doit être renvoyée à (Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POOSSTTAALL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3259

C 8 (Verso)

III. RENSEIGNEMENTS À FOURNIR PAR LE DESTINATAIRE EN CAS DE RÉCLAMATION D'UN ENVOI ORDINAIRE NON PARVENU

Demandes 1

Réponses

n) L'envoi est-il parvenu au destinataire ?
o) Les correspondances sont-elles d'ordinaire retirées au bureau de poste ou distribuées à domicile ?
p) A qui sont-elles confiées dans le premier cas ?
q) Dans le second cas, sont-elles remises directement au destinataire ou à une personne attachée à son service, ou bien déposées dans une boîte particulière ? Le cas échéant , cette boîte est-elle bien fermée et régulièrement levée ?
r) La perte de correspondances s'est-elle déjà produite souvent? Dans l'affirmative, indiquer la provenance des correspondances perdues.

s) Renseignements particuliers du bureau de destination.

La présente formule doit être renvoyée à

3260

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

lsrdeA'earomnvrpsilcgieirne

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d
BUREAU d

RÉCLAMATION

C 9 (Recto) (Règl., art. 141, § 1)
Timbre du bureau d'origine

d'un envoi recommandé ( ou d'une lettre de valeur déclarée de (
boîte contenant (

déposé par M sous le No

au bureau d

) (a) remboursement (.. ....) (b) remboursement (
le à l'adresse suivante:

et faisant l'objet d'une demande d'avis de réception

.) (c) 19
(d) (2)

lsrdAeearsmnvtpsilcnieartion cedainestribution

Le soussigné déclare que l'envoi susmentionné a été dûment livré à l'ayant droit le

Le montant du remboursement a été transmis à l'expéditeur de l'envoi par le mandat No

Le montant du remboursement a été transmis au bureau de chèques postaux d

No

le

19

Le montant de remboursement a été mis en compte courant postal le

19

Le Chef du bureau distributeur:

19

le

19

par le mandat

Timbre du bureau distributeur

-cednaineosntribution

Le soussigné déclare que l'envoi susmentionné

est encore en instance au bureau d

a été renvoyé au bureau d'origine le

19

a été réexpédié le

19 à

n'est pas parvenu au bureau de destination. La déclaration du destinataire est ci-jointe.

Le Chef du bureau distributeur:

(1) Timbre du bureau distributeur

(a) Lettre, imprimé, échantillon, etc. (b) Montant de la valeur déclarée. ((cd)) DCeasdcrreipàtiroenmpdluircopnatrenlu'e,xapuédtiatneturquoeu,pàossdiébflaeu. t, par le bureau d'origine; mentionner l'adresse exacte et complète.
(e) Bitfer, le cas échéant (1) Indiquer l'adresse exacte et complète.
(Dimensions: 210x297 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3261

.lsrdAe'earomnvrpsilcgieirne

.lsirdeAneasrtmnvepsirlcmieérsdiaires

C 9 (Verso)
À REMPLIR SEULEMENT DANS LE CAS OÙ LE SORT DE L'ENVOI N'A PU
ÊTRE ÉTABLI PAR LES RECHERCHES PRÉVUES AU RECTO

L'envoi désigné d'autre part a été inséré dans la dépêche du bureau d'échange d

du

19 (  envoi) pour le bureau d'échange d

Il a été inscrit sous le No

du tableau V de la feuille d'avis ou de la liste spéciale. de la feuille d'envoi.

Signature :

Timbre du bureau

L'envoi désigné d'autre part a été inséré dans la dépêche du bureau d'échange d

du

19. (... envoi) pour le bureau d'échange d ..

Il a été inscrit sous le No

du tableau V de la feuille d'avis ou de la liste spéciale. de la feuille d'envoi.

Signature :

Timbre du bureau

L'envoi désigné d'autre part a été inséré dans la dépêche du bureau d'échange d

du

19 ( e envoi) pour le bureau d'échange d

Il a été inscrit sous le N°

du tableau V de la feuille d'avis ou de la liste spéciale. de la feuille d'envoi.

Signature :

Timbre du bureau

L'envoi désigné d'autre part a été inséré dans la dépêche du bureau d'échange d

du

19 (..... envoi) pour le bureau d'échange d

Il a été inscrit sous le No

du tableau V de la feuille d'avis ou de la liste spéciale. de la feuille d'envoi.

Signature :

Timbre du bureau

10

RÉPONSE DÉFINITIVE de l'Administration destinataire ou, le cas échéant, de l'Administration intermédiaire qui ne peut établir la transmission
régulière de l'envoi réclamé à l'Administration suivante.

3262

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d
BUREAU d

C 10 (Régl.. art. 144.§ 1,
lettre a)
Timbre du bureau expédi'eur

AVIS DE L'ENVOI
sous recommandation d'office , de l'objet de correspondance décrit ci-après paraissant revêtu machine à affranchir ¹) .
d'un timbre-poste frauduleux ou d'une empreinte contrefaite de presse d'imprimerie ¹).

Nature de l'objet 1

Bureau d'origine et date d'expédition
2

Copie textuelle de l'adresse 3

Indication de l'irrégularité présumée
4

Observations 5

1) Biffer la mention inutile.

Le Chef du bureau: (Dimensions: 148 x 210 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3263

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d

C 11 (Règl., art. 144, § 1,
lettre b)
Tidmebrdeesdtiunabtuiroenau

PROCÈS -VERBAL

dressé à

par application de l'article 73 de la Convention postale

universelle et de l'article 144 de son Règlement.

Emploi d'un timbre-poste frauduleux ou d'une empreinte contrefaite

1) Biffer,suivant lecas, l'une ou l'autre de ces indications.

machine à affranchir ¹) . de
presse d'imprimerie ¹).

L'an mil neuf cent

le

19

Nous soussigné,

des postes à

agissant

en vertu de l'article 73 de la Convention postale universelle et de l'article 144 de son Règlement et assistant

à la vérification d

) Nature de l'envoi

(lettre, papiers d'affaires, imprimé,

*) expédié le.

19

échantillon, etc.). d

à l'adresse de M

à à raison de

pesant

et affranchi avons constaté que cet envoi

d'un timbre-poste présumé frauduleux, était revêtu ¹) d'une empreinte contrefaite de machine à affranchir,

d'une empreinte contrefaite de presse d'imprimerie ,

3) Nom et adresse du contrevenant (s'il habite une grande ville, indiquer la rue et le numéro de la
maison).

ce qui constitue la contravention prévue par l'article 73 de la Convention. que l'expéditeur est M³)

Le destinataire nous a déclaré ¹)
En conséquence, nous lui avons remis

que l'expéditeur lui est inconnu. qu'il refusait de faire connaître l'expéditeur.

1) nous avons saisi

à l'effet de 1 ..... transmettre à l'Administration des postes d
De quoi nous avons dressé le présent procès-verbal en simple expédition pour qu'il y soit donné suite conformément à l'article 73 de la Convention et à l'article 144 du Règlement susmentionnés.

Signature du destinataire ou de son fondé de pouvoir :

Signature de l'agent du bureau de destination :

(Dimensions : 148 x 210 ou 210 x 297 mm .)

3264

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

PAYS D'ORIGINE

C 12 (Règl., art. 145, § 1)
PAYS DE DESTINATION

Timbre du bureau expéditeur

FEUILLE D'AVIS Dépêche (  envoi) du bureau d'échange d

Timbdreestidnuatabiurreeau

pour le bureau d'échange d

expédiée le

19

h.

m.

I. Envois ordinaires

par exprès ¹)

par avion ¹)

1) Souligner la mention valable.

11. Numéro de la dépêche et nombre des saes

V. Liste des envols recommandés (S'il n'y a pas d'objets recommandés, porter la mention Néant »)

N° d'ordre
1

Bureau d'origine 2

N° d'ordre de l'envoi

Observations

1

Numéro d'ordre de la dépêche 2

Paquebot

Via

3

L. C. sacs

4

A. O. sacs

5

S. C. sacs

6

S.V. sacs (contenant des sacs vides)

7

Total des sacs 8
III. Récapitulation des envois inserits 9
Nombre

Sacs contenant des envois recommandés

10

Paquets

11

Listes spéciales d'objets recommandés 12
Total des envois recommandés .

Sacs

13

contenant des envois avec valeur déclarée

Paquets

14

Feuilles d'envoi d'objets avec valeur déclarée .

15

Total des envois avec valeur déclarée

IV. Indications de service
Sacs utilisés pour la confection de la dépêche appartenant à l'Administration expéditrice, y compris les sacs pour les objets recommandés et ceux qui sont réunis dans des sacs collecteurs
Sacs vides en retour appartenant à l'Administration destinataire

Nombre

VI. Dépêches closes insérées dans la présente dépêche

Nombre

Bureau d'origine 1

Bureau de destination des sacs ou

1

paquets

L'agent du bureau d'échange expéditeur:

L'agent du bureau d'échange destinataire :

(Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3265

PAYS D'ORIGINE

C 13 (Règl., art. 145, § 2, lettre c)
PAYS DE DESTINATION

Timbre du bureau expéditeur

LISTE SPÉCIALE N°

des envois recommandés de la dépêche No

d

pour

( e envoi)

Timbre du bureau destinataire

N° d'ordre
1
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30

Bureau d'origine

Numéro
d'ordre de l'envoi
3

Observations d'oNr°dre

4

1

31

32

33 34

35

36

37 38 39

40

41 42 43

44 45

46 47

48

49

50

51 52

53

1385

54 55

56 57

58

59

60

L'agent du bureau d'échange expéditeur:

888

Bureau d'origine 2

Numéro d'ordre de Observations
l'envoi
3

L'agent du bureau d'échange destinataire :

(Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm.)

3266

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES .d
BUREAU d

C 14 (Régl., art. 150, § 1) CORRESPONDANCE AVEC L'ADMINISTRATION
d

Timbre du bureau expéditeur du bulletin.

BULLETIN DE VERIFICATION
pour la constatation et la rectification des erreurs et irrégularités de toute nature reconnues dans la dépêche No du bureau d'échange d pour le bureau d'échange d.

Timbre du bureau destinataire du bulletin

e expédition du

19

h.

ERREURS OU IRRÉGULARITÉS DIVERSES
(Manque de la dépêche, manque d'envois recommandés ou de la feuille d'avis, dépêche spoliée, sac déchiré ou en mauvais état, etc.)

le

19

Les agents du bureau d'échange destinataire. de la dépêche:

le

19

Vu et accepté :
Le Chef du bureau d'échange expéditeur de la dépêche :

(Dimensions : 148 x 210 mm.)

32 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3267

PAYS D'ORIGINE

C 15 (Règl., art. 154, § 1)
PAYS DE DESTINATION

Timbre du bureau expéditeur

FEUILLE D'AVIS

Timbre du bureau destinataire

Dépêche ( e envoi) du bureau d'échange d

pour le bureau d'échange, d.

expédiée le

19

à

h.

m.

Transit en
dépêches closes

Description des sacs

Nombre de sacs dont le poids brut

ne dépasse pas 5 kg (sacs légers)

dépa1s5sekg5(skagcssamnosyeenxscé)der

dépasse 15 kg sans excéder 30 kg (sacs lourds)

L. C. A. O.

Nombre de sacs exempts de frais de transit

I. Envols ordinaires

par exprès ¹)

par avion ¹)

¹) Souligner la mention valable.

II. Numéro de la dépêche et nombre des saes

V. Liste des envois recommandés (S'il n'y a pas d'objets recommandés, porter la mention Néant )

No d'ordre
1

Bureau d'origine 2

Numéro de l'envoi

Observations

3

Numéro d'ordre de la dépêche Paquebot Via L. C. sacs A. O. sacs S. C. sacs
S. V. sacs (contenant des sacs vides) Total des sacs

III. Récapitulation des envois inscrits

Sacs contenant des envois recommandés
Paquets }

Listes spéciales d'objets recommandés .

Total des envois recommandés

dont A.O., et

Exempt dans les sacs

· ad hoc ¹)

Sacs contenant des envois avec valeur déclarée
Paquets

Feuille d'envoi d'objets avec valeur déclarée .

Total des envois avec valeur déclarée .

Exe1m)ptNe(raretm.pl6i8r dqeuelaloCrosnqvueenlteisone)nvoonits érteécoinmsméarénsdédsansAl.e0s.sacest ad hoc (art. 153, § 5, du Règlement de la Convention).

Nombre

IV. Indications de service

1 2 3

45

6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15

VI. Dépêches closes insérées dans la présente dépêche

Bureau d'origine 1

Nombre

Bureau de destination

des sacs ou paquets

Sacs utilisés pour la confection de la dépêche appartenant à l'Administration expéditrice, y compris les sacs pour les objets recommandés et ceux qui sont réunis dans des sacs collecteurs
Sacs en retour
appartenant à l'Administration destinataire

Nombre

L'agent du bureau d'échange expéditeur:

L'agent du bureau d'échange destinataire :

68706 0-51- PT. III---42

(Dimensions : 210 x 297 mm.)

3268

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d

C 16 (Règl., art. 154, § 3)

BUREAU d
Timbre du bureau expéditeur

STATISTIQUE DE TRANSIT

BULLETIN DE VÉRIFICATION

pour la constatation et la rectification des erreurs et irrégularités reconnues dans la dépêche

du bureau d'échange d

pour le bureau d'échange d e expédition du

19 à h.

Nombre de sacs

Timbdersetidnuatabiurreeau

Transit en dépêches closes.
a) L. C. Sacs légers Sacs moyens Sacs lourds

d'après la déclaration du bureau expéditeur

d'après la constatation du bureau destinataire
2

b) A. O. Sacs légers Sacs moyens Sacs lourds
c) Sacs exempts de tous frais de transit

OBSERVATIONS

Prière de renvoyer ce bulletin après examen et acceptation au bureau de poste d..

le

19

Les agents du bureau d'échange destinataire :

le

19

Vu et accepté : Le Chef du bureau d'échange expéditeur:

(Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5 , 1947

3269

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d
BUREAU d
Administration expéditrice:

C 17 (Règl., art. 165, § 1)
Administration destinataire :

TRANSIT EN DÉPÊCHES CLOSES
Dépêches du bureau d'échange d pour le bureau d'échange d expédiées par l'intermédiaire d et par des paquebots d

Première dépêche expédiée à

h. du

Deuxième dépêche expédiée à

h. du

Lettres et cartes postales

Autres objets

Lettres et cartes postales

Autres objets

Nombre de sacs Date

Nombre de sacs

de plus jusqu'à de 5 de plus de plus de plus de plus de plus de de | jusqu'à de 5 de jusqu'à de 5 de jusqu'à dplus de plus e 5 de

5 kg jusqu'à 15 kg 5 kg jusqu'à 15 kg 5 kg jusqu'à 15 kg 5 kg jusqu'à 15 kg

15 kg

15 kg

15 kg

15 kg

Sacs Sacs Sacs Sacs Sacs Sacs Sacs Sacs Sacs Sacs Sacs Sacs légers moyens lourds légers moyens lourds légers moyens lourds légers moyens lourds

1

2

3

$

7

·

10

11 12

13

Totaux

le

19

Le Chef du bureau d'échange destinataire :

le

19

Vu et accepté :

Le Chef du bureau d'échange expéditeur :

(Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm.)

3270

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION EXPÉDITRICE

C 18 (Règl., art. 156, § 1)

LISTE DES DÉPÉCHES CLOSES

expédiées par l'intermédiaire de l'Administration d pendant la période de statistique du
expéditeur Bureau destinataire

Date d'expédition Voie de transmission

Observations

(Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3271

C 19 (Règl., art. 158, § 1)
Avis.  A transporter à découvert simultanément avec la dépêche à laquelle ce bulletin se rapporte et à remplir avant la remise.

ADMINISTRATION EXPÉDITRICE

ADMINISTRATION DESTINATAIRE

Timbre du bureau d'origine

BULLETIN DE TRANSIT DES DÉPÊCHES Bureau de destination:

No de la dépêche :

Nombre de sacs:

Attention ! Chaque Administration ne dispose que d'une seule rangée de cases pour les indications concernant le transit territorial et d'une seule rangée pour le transit maritime éventuel.
Les renseignements concernant le transit doivent être indiqués successivement par le bureau d'échange d'entrée et le bureau d'échange de sortie de chaque Administration intermédiaire, à l'exclusion de tout autre bureau , en commençant par le premier bureau d'échange d'entrée. Le dernier bureau d'échange de sortie doit transmettre le bulletin directement au bureau de destination qui le renvoie au bureau d'origine joint au relevé C 17 respectif.

Timbre du bureau d'échange d'entrée
2

Timbre du bureau d'échange de sortie
3

Services utilisés
(En cas de transit territorial, indiquer T. t. et
la route suivie. En cas de transit mari-
time, indiquer T. m., la route suivie, le nom du paquebot et celui de la
ligne de paquebot) 4

Pays auquel les frais de transit
doivent être payés

Premier parcours

Deuxième parcours. Pour les parcours additionnels, utiliser le verso de ce bulletin.

(Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm., couleur verte)

3272

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d

C 20 (Règl., art. 161, § 6)

TRANSIT EN DEPECHES CLOSES

Compte des sommes dues à l'Administration d

pour le transport des dépêches closes expédiées

par l'Administration d

en transit par les services.

pendant l'année 19

Dépêches expédiées pendant la période de la statistique

Bureau d'origine
1

Bureau de
destination
2

Lettres et cartes postales

Nombre de
sacs du poids moyen de

3 12 24

kg

kg

34

Poids totaux
6 kg

Prix de transit par kg 7
Fr. C.

Avoir de
8 Fr. c.

Autres objets

 22

Nombre de sacs du poids
moyen de
3 12 24 kg kg kg
10

Poids totaux
12 kg

Prix de transit par kg 13
C.

Avoir de
14 Fr. C.

Observations
15

Total des lettres et des cartes postales

Total des autres objets

Report du total des lettres et des cartes postales
Total
Multiplié par 26 (ou 13) A déduire 10 %
Total à reporter au relevé (Formule C 21)

le

19

le

19

Vu et accepté :

(Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3273

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d

C 21 (Règl., art. 162, § 2)

FRAIS DE TRANSIT ORDINAIRES

RELEVÉ

indiquant les montants totaux des comptes particuliers réciproques entre les Administrations des postes

d

et d

Sommes dues pour chacune des années sur la base de la statistique d

Avoir de l'Administration

d 2 Fr.

d 3 Fr.

Dépêches closes Envois d ... Envois d

Totaux Déduction

Solde au crédit de l'Administration d le

19. Signature :

(Dimensions : 148 x 210 ou 210 x 297 mm.)

3274

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

C 22 (Règl., art. 164, § 1)
COUPON-RÉPONSE INTERNATIONAL a) b)

(Dessin)

Timbre du bureau d'origine

Timbre du bureau d'échange

d) Ce coupon est échangeable dans tous les Pays de l'Union postale

universelle contre un timbre-poste ou des timbres-poste représentant le montant de l'affranchissement d'une lettre ordinaire de port simple à destination

de l'étranger.

(Nom du Pays d'émission)

a) Traduction de l'en-tête dans la langue du Pays d'émission. b) Cet espace est occupé par une traduction du texte d) dans la langue du Pays d'émission. c) Prix de vente dans le Pays d'émission. d) Cette explication est répétée au verso dans les langues de plusieurs
Pays.
(Dimensions: 105x 74 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3275

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d
COUPONS- REPONSE

C 23 (Règl., art. 164, § 4)

RELEVÉ des coupons émis par l'Administration d et échangés en
Nombre

pendant l'année 19

Montant

Fr.

c.

Coupons à 28 c..

le

19

Vu et accepté:

(Dimensions : 148 x 210 mm.)

3276

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d

COUPONS -RÉPONSE

C 24 (Règl., art. 164, §5)

RELEVÉ

des coupons échangés dans les relations réciproques entre les Administrations d

et d ..

pendant

1

2

Nombre

Coupons émis par et échangés contre des timbres-poste d.

19

3
Valeur calculée à 28 c. par unité

Fr.

C.

Coupons émis par et échangés contre des timbres-poste d

crédit Solde au

de l'Administration d

{ débit }

, le

19 .

(Dimensions : 148 x 210 mm .)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3277

C 25 (Règl., art. 165, § 2)

SIGNALEMENT ¹)
Date de naissance: Lieu de naissance : Taille: Cheveux : Yeux : Teint: .... Marques particulières :
) Les indications du signalement doivent, le cas échéant, porter une traduction interlinéaire en langue française.

UNION POSTALE UNIVERSELLE Administration des Postes
d
CARTE D'IDENTITÉ POSTALE
1. Cette carte est reconnue comme pièce justificative d'identité pour les opérations postales.
2. Les cartes d'identité sont délivrées exclusivement par le service des postes. Elles sont valables pendant trois ans. Toutefois si, pendant cette période, la physionomie du titulaire s'est modifiée au point de ne plus répondre à la photographie ou au signalement, la carte doit être renouvelée.
3. Les Administrations des postes ne sont pas responsables des conséquences que peuvent entrafner la perte, la soustraction ou l'emploi frauduleux de la présente carte.

(Dimensions: 148 × 105 mm.)

Photographie
Timbre-poste (La moitié sur
la photographie) Signature du titulaire:

Titulaire

CARTE D'IDENTITÉ POSTALE No

valable jusqu'au

19.

Nom : Prénoms : Profession : Nationalité : Domicile :

Délivrée par le bureau ou le service

d

le

19.

Le Chef de service:

Timbre à date ou sceau officiel

3278

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION DES POSTES d

COMPTE

des frais de douane, etc., payés par l'Administration d. pour le compte de l'Administration d
Mois d

Numéro d'ordre

Numéro Date du bulletin des avances d'affran-
chissement

BUREAU qui a fait l'avance

C 26 (Règl., art. 167, § 1)

19
Montant de chaque bulletin d'affranchissement

Observations

TOTAL (Dimensions : 210 x 297 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3279

Table des articles des
DISPOSITIONS CONCERNANT LE TRANSPORT DE LA POSTE AUX LETTRES PAR VOIE AÉRIENNE

1. DISPOSITIONS AÉROPOSTALES DE LA CONVENTION.

CHAPITRE I.
Dispositions générales.
Art. 1. Objets de correspondance admis au transport aérien. 2. Liberté de transit. 3. Acheminement des correspondances-avion. 4. Acheminement par la voie aérienne sur une partie seulement du parcours. 5. Taxes et conditions générales d'admission des correspondances-avion . 6. Correspondances-avion non affranchies ou insuffisamment affranchies. 7. Distribution des correspondances-avion. 8. Réexpédition et renvoi des correspondances-avion.

CHAPITRE II.
Envois recommandés ou avec valeur déclarée. Art. 9. Envois recommandés.
10. Avis de réception. 11. Responsabilité. 12. Envois avec valeur déclarée.

CHAPITRE III.
Attribution des surtaxes aériennes. Frais de transport. Art. 13. Attribution des surtaxes.
14. Frais de transport aérien des dépêches closes. 15. Frais de transport des correspondances-avion à découvert.

CHAPITRE IV. Bureau international. Art. 16. Communications à adresser au Bureau international et aux Administrations.

CHAPITRE V.

Art. 17. 18.

Comptabilité. Règlement des comptes. Statistique de décompte. Confection des dépêches ordinaires ou des dépêches-avion pendant les périodes de statistique des frais de transport aérien.

3280

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

19. Constatation du poids des dépêches-avion et des correspondances-avion. 20. Liste des dépêches-avion closes. 21. Compte des frais de transport aérien réglés sur la base des statistiques. 22. Compte des frais de transport aérien. 23. Décompte général.
CHAPITRE VI
Dispositions diverses.
Art. 24. Signalisation des correspondances-avion. 25. Signalisation des dépêches-avion. 26. Mode d'expédition des correspondances-avion. 27. Bordereaux de chargement et de livraison des dépêches. 28. Transbordement des dépêches-avion. 29. Annotations à porter sur les feuilles d'avis, sur les feuilles d'envoi et sur les étiquettes des dépêches-avion. 30. Dédouanement des correspondances passibles de droits de douane. 31. Renvoi des sacs-avions vides. 32. Application des dispositions de la Convention et des Arrangements. 33. Mise à exécution et durée des Dispositions adoptées.

2. PROTOCOLE FINAL DES DISPOSITIONS AÉROPOSTALES DE LA CONVENTION.
I. Frais de transport aérien des dépêches closes. II. Faculté de réduire l'échelon de poids unitaire des correspondances-avion . III. Surtaxes exceptionnelles.

Formules AV 1 à AV 7.

Annexe .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL -UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3281

DISPOSITIONS CONCERNANT LE TRANSPORT DE LA POSTE
AUX LETTRES PAR VOIE AÉRIENNE
CHAPITRE 1.
Dispositions générales.
ARTICLE PREMIER.
Objets de correspondance admis au transport aérien. 1. Sont admis au transport aérien, sur tout ou partie du parcours, tous les objets désignés à l'article 35 de la Convention ainsi que les mandats de poste, les valeurs à recouvrer et les abonnementsposte. Ces envois qui prennent, dans ce cas, la dénomination de « Correspondances-avion », se répartissent en envois pour lesquels une surtaxe spéciale de transport aérien est perçue (envois surtaxés) et en envois pour lesquels pareille taxe n'est pas due (envois non surtaxés). 2. Les objets mentionnés à l'article 35 de la Convention peuvent être soumis à la formalité de la recommandation et grevés de remboursement. 3. Les lettres et les boîtes avec valeur déclarée peuvent être également transportées par la voie de l'air dans les relations entre Pays qui admettent d'échanger des objets de l'espèce par cette voie . 4. Les correspondances-avion surtaxées doivent porter au recto la mention très apparente « Par avion » ou une mention analogue dans la langue du Pays d'origine.
ARTICLE 2.
Liberté de transit.
La liberté de transit prévue à l'article 28 de la Convention est garantie aux correspondancesavion dans le territoire entier de l'Union, que les Administrations intermédiaires prennent part ou non au réacheminement des correspondances.
ARTICLE 3.
Acheminement des correspondances-avion. 1. Les Administrations qui se servent des communications aériennes pour le transport de leurs propres correspondances-avion surtaxées sont tenues d'acheminer, par ces mêmes communications, les correspondances-avion surtaxées qui leur parviennent des autres Administrations. Il en est de même des correspondances-avion non surtaxées, à condition que la capacité disponible des appareils le permette. 2. - Les Administrations qui ne disposent pas d'un service aérien acheminent les correspondances-avion par les voies les plus rapides utilisées par la poste. Il en est de même si, pour une raison quelconque, l'acheminement par ces autres voies offre des avantages sur une voie aérienne existante. 3. - Le cas échéant, il est tenu compte des indications de voie d'acheminement portées sur les correspondances-avion surtaxées par les expéditeurs, sous réserve que la voie demandée soit normalement utilisée pour les transports postaux sur le parcours intéressé et que l'acheminement par cette voie n'entraîne pas une perte de temps considérable dans l'arrivée à destination de l'envoi. 4. -- Les dépêches-avion closes doivent être acheminées par la voie demandée par l'Administration du Pays d'origine , sous réserve que cette voie soit utilisée par l'Administration du Pays de transit pour la transmission de ses propres dépêches. 5. -- Dans le but d'établir le parcours le plus convenable, le bureau d'origine peut adresser au bureau destinataire de la dépêche un bulletin d'essai conforme au modèle AV 1 ci-annexé; ce bulletin doit être inséré dans la dépêche et joint à la feuille d'avis. Le bulletin d'essai, dûment rempli , doit être renvoyé au bureau d'origine par le premier courrier aérien.

3282

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

6. Lorsque, par suite d'un accident survenu en cours de route, un avion ne peut poursuivre son voyage et livrer le courrier aux escales prévues, le personnel du bord doit remettre les dépêches au bureau de poste le plus proche du lieu de l'accident ou le plus qualifié pour le réacheminement du courrier. En cas d'empêchement du personnel, ce bureau, ayant été mis au courant de l'accident, fait son possible pour prendre, sans délai, livraison du courrier. Les dépêches doivent être dirigées sur les bureaux destinataires par les voies les plus rapides après constatation de l'état et, éventuellement, remise en état des correspondances endommagées.
7. Les circonstances de l'accident et les constatations faites sont signalées par bulletin de vérification aux bureaux destinataires des dépêches accidentées; une copie du bulletin est adressée au bureau d'origine des dépêches. En outre, l'Administration du Pays dont dépend la compagnie aérienne doit fournir par télégramme aux Administrations intéressées tous les détails relatifs au sort du courrier.
ARTICLE 4.
Acheminement par la voie aérienne sur une partie seulement du parcours.
1. --- A moins de difficultés d'ordre pratique, l'expéditeur peut demander que sa correspondance surtaxée soit expédiée par la voie aérienne sur une partie seulement du parcours.
2. Lorsqu'il use de cette faculté, l'expéditeur doit porter sur sa correspondance surtaxée l'annotation, en langue du Pays d'origine et en langue française : « Par avion de ... à....» A la fin de la transmission aérienne, les étiquettes « Par avion » mentionnées à l'article 24 ci-après ainsi que les annotations spéciales doivent être barrées d'office par deux forts traits transversaux .
ARTICLE 5.
Taxes et conditions générales d'admission des correspondances-avion.
1. Les correspondances-avion surtaxées acquittent, en sus des taxes postales réglementaires, une surtaxe spéciale de transport aérien dont il appartient à l'Administration du Pays d'origine de fixer le montant. Sous réserve de ce qui est dit au § 7, la surtaxe aérienne est due également pour les correspondances-avion qui jouissent de la franchise postale en vertu des dispositions de l'article 52, §§ 2 à 4, de la Convention.
2.- Dans les relations considérées comme services de la catégorie A (art . 14, § 9, ci-après), les lettres et les cartes postales, avec ou sans recommandation et grevées ou non de remboursement ainsi que les mandats de poste et les recouvrements, sont transportés par voie aérienne et sans perception de surtaxe de transport aérien si le parcours aérien à effectuer ne dépasse pas 2000 kilomètres et que leur distribution se trouve utilement accélérée par l'emploi de la voie aérienne. Les Administrations se notifient les Pays pour lesquels les envois susmentionnés sont transportés par la voie aérienne.
3. Dans les relations entre les Pays d'Europe, la surtaxe s'élève, le cas échéant, au maximum à 7½ centimes par 20 grammes, quelle que soit la distance.
4. Les montants maxima des surtaxes de transport aérien à percevoir pour chaque échelon de poids de 20 grammes et pour chaque parcours aérien de 1000 kilomètres sont mentionnés ci-après:

Echelons de distances 1

Lettres, cartes postales, mandats de poste et
recouvrements 2

Autres objets de correspondance non mentionnés
dans la colonne 2 3

SERVICE AÉRIEN DE LA CATÉGORIE A

Jusqu'à 2000 kilomètres . Au-dessus de 2000 kilomètres

72 centimes

Toutes distances

SERVICE AÉRIEN DE LA CATÉGORIE B 15 centimes

72 centimes 72 centimes
15 centimes

A

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3283

5. Les surtaxes fixées conformément au § 4 doivent être uniformes pour tout le territoire d'un Pays de destination, quel que soit l'acheminement utilisé.
6. Pour les objets autres que les lettres, cartes postales, mandats de poste et valeurs à recouvrer, les surtaxes perçues par application des §§ 2 à 5 peuvent être réduites à un cinquième au minimum.

7. Les Administrations ont la faculté de ne percevoir aucune surtaxe de transport aérien, sous réserve d'information à donner au Pays de destination et d'un accord préalable avec les Pays de transit.

8. - Les surtaxes doivent être acquittées au départ.

9. La surtaxe d'une carte postale avec réponse payée est perçue pour chaque partie séparément, au point de départ de chacune de ces parties.
10. - Les correspondances-avion sont affranchies dans les conditions prévues par les articles 50 et 51 de la Convention . Toutefois, et sans égard à la nature de ces correspondances, l'affranchissement

peut être représenté par une mention manuscrite, en chiffres, de la somme perçue, exprimée en mon-

naie du Pays d'origine sous la forme, par exemple: «Taxe perçue :

Dollars

cents.»

Cette mention peut, soit figurer dans une griffe spéciale ou sur une figurine ou étiquette spéciale, soit encore être simplement portée, par un procédé quelconque, du côté de la suscription de l'objet. Dans tous les cas, la mention doit être appuyée du timbre à date du bureau d'origine.

ARTICLE 6.
Correspondances-avion non affranchies ou insuffisamment affranchies.
1. En cas d'absence totale d'affranchissement, les correspondances-avion sont traitées conformément aux dispositions des articles 37 et 38 de la Convention . Les objets dont l'affranchissement postal n'est pas obligatoire au départ sont transmis par les voies ordinaires.
2. En cas d'insuffisance d'affranchissement, les correspondances-avion surtaxées sont transmises par la voie de l'air lorsque les taxes acquittées représentent au moins le montant de la surtaxe aérienne. Les Administrations d'origine ont la faculté de transmettre ces correspondances par la voie de l'air lorsque les taxes acquittées représentent 25 % au moins du montant de la surtaxe aérienne .
3. Les dispositions de l'article 38 de la Convention sont applicables en ce qui concerne la perception des taxes non acquittées au départ.
4. Lors de la transmission par voie ordinaire des envois surtaxés visés au § 2, le bureau de dépôt ou le bureau d'échange doit barrer au moyen de deux jorts traits transversaux l'étiquette « Par avion» et toute annotation relative au transport aérien et indiquer brièvement les motifs de la transmission par voie ordinaire.
ARTICLE 7.
Distribution des correspondances-avion.
1. Les correspondances-avion sont distribuées dans les meilleures conditions de rapidité possibles et doivent au moins être comprises dans la première distribution qui suit leur arrivée au bureau de distribution.
2. - Les expéditeurs ont la faculté de demander la remise à domicile par porteur spécial immédiatement après l'arrivée, en acquittant la taxe spéciale d'exprès prévue par l'article 47 de la Convention. Cette faculté n'existe que dans les relations entre Pays qui ont organisé le service des envois exprès dans leurs relations réciproques .
3. Lorsque le règlement du Pays de destination le permet, les destinataires peuvent demander au bureau chargé de la distribution que les correspondances-avion parvenant à leur adresse leur soient remises dès leur arrivée . Dans ce cas, les Administrations destinataires sont autorisées à percevoir, au moment de la distribution, un droit spécial qui ne pourra être supérieur à la taxe d'exprès prévue par l'article 47 de la Convention.
4. Moyennant rémunération supplémentaire, les Administrations peuvent, après entente, procéder à la remise à domicile par des moyens spéciaux, notamment par utilisation des tubes pneumatiques. 68706 0 51- PT. III 43

3284

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 8.
Réexpédition et renvoi des correspondances-avion . 1. -- Les correspondances-avion adressées à des destinataires ayant changé de résidence sont réexpédiées sur la nouvelle destination par les moyens de transport normalement utilisés, à moins que le destinataire n'ait demandé expressément la réexpédition par la voie aérienne et n'ait payé d'avance au bureau réexpéditeur la surtaxe aérienne du nouveau parcours. Les correspondances tombées en rebut sont renvoyées à l'origine par la voie normalement utilisée. 2. - Si la réexpédition ou le renvoi des correspondances surtaxées a lieu par les moyens ordinaires de la poste, l'étiquette « Par avion » et toute annotation se rapportant à la transmission par la voie aérienne doivent être barrées d'office au moyen de deux forts traits transversaux.

CHAPITRE II.
Envois recommandés ou avec valeur déclarée.
ARTICLE 9. Envois recommandés . Les envois recommandés pour lesquels une surtaxe spéciale de transport aérien a été perçue sont soumis aux taxes postales et conditions générales d'admission prévues par la Convention. Ils acquittent, en outre, les mêmes surtaxes aériennes que les envois ordinaires.
ARTICLE 10. Avis de réception. Chaque Administration est autorisée à tenir compte du poids de la formule de l'avis de réception pour le calcul de la surtaxe aérienne.
ARTICLE 11. Responsabilité. Les Administrations assument à l'égard des envois recommandés acheminés par voie aérienne la même responsabilité que pour les autres envois recommandés .
ARTICLE 12. Envois avec valeur déclarée. 1. Les Administrations qui admettent les envois avec valeur déclarée au transport aérien sont autorisées à percevoir du chef de ces envois un droit spécial d'assurance dont elles fixent le montant. Le total du droit d'assurance ordinaire et du droit spécial ne doit pas dépasser le double de la limite fixée par l'article 3, lettre c) , de l'Arrangement concernant les lettres et les boîtes avec valeur déclarée. 2. - En ce qui concerne les envois avec valeur déclarée qui transitent en dépêches closes par le territoire de Pays non adhérents à l'Arrangement concernant les envois de l'espèce ou qui transitent par des services aériens pour lesquels les Pays en cause n'acceptent pas la responsabilité des valeurs, la responsabilité de ces Pays est limitée à celle qui est prévue pour les envois recommandés.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3285

CHAPITRE III
Attribution des surtaxes aériennes. Frais de transport.
ARTICLE 13.
Attribution des surtaxes.
Chaque Administration garde en entier les surtaxes aériennes qu'elle a perçues.
ARTICLE 14.
Frais de transport aérien des dépêches closes.
1. Les dispositions de l'article 67 de la Convention, concernant les frais de transit, ne s'appliquent aux correspondances-avion que pour leurs parcours territoriaux ou maritimes éventuels.
2. Les frais de transport aérien des correspondances-avion expédiées en dépêches closes sont à la charge de l'Administration du Pays d'origine.
3. Chaque Administration qui assure le transport des correspondances-avion par la voie aérienne comme Administration intermédiaire a droit, de ce chef, à une bonification de frais de transport. Ces frais sont calculés d'après la longueur effective des lignes sur lesquelles la dépêche ou les envois ont été transportés. Si l'avion fait escale à plusieurs aéroports, la bonification est due jusqu'à l'aéroport où le déchargement a lieu.
4. Des frais de transport doivent être bonifiés également pour le transport dans l'intérieur du Pays de destination . Ces bonifications doivent être uniformes pour tous les parcours effectués dans le réseau intérieur ; elles sont calculées d'après la distance moyenne de tous les parcours effectués sur le réseau intérieur et leur importance pour le trafic international .
5. Les frais de transport afférents à un même parcours aérien sont uniformes pour toutes les Administrations qui font emploi de ce service sans participer aux frais d'exploitation .
6. Sauf les exceptions prévues aux §§ 7 et 8 ci-après, les frais de transport aérien sont payables à l'Administration des postes du Pays où se trouve l'aéroport dans lequel les dépêches ont été prises en charge par le service aérien.
7.  L'Administration qui remet à une entreprise de transport aérien des dépêches destinées à emprunter successivement plusieurs services aériens distincts peut, si elle est d'accord avec les Administrations intermédiaires, régler directement avec cette entreprise les frais de transport pour la totalité du parcours. Les Administrations intermédiaires ont, de leur côté, le droit de demander l'application pure et simple des dispositions du § 6.
8. Par dérogation aux stipulations des §§ 6 et 7, est réservé à chaque Administration dont dépend un service aérien le droit de percevoir directement de chaque Administration qui utilise ce service les frais de transport afférents à la totalité du parcours.
9. Les tarifs de base à appliquer aux règlements de compte entre les Administrations du chef des transports aériens sont fixés par kilogramme de poids brut et par kilomètre, comme il suit:
a) Services aériens européens et autres services dont les frais d'exploitation sont semblables (catégorie A): 3 millièmes de franc au maximum;
b) Services dont l'entretien nécessite des frais plus élevés (catégorie B): 6 millièmes de franc au maximum .
10. Les tarifs spécifiés au § 9 sont appliqués proportionnellement aux fractions de kilogramme. Les dépêches ou correspondances transportées dans le service interne des Pays de destination sont soumises au tarif applicable aux services de la catégorie A, à moins que les Pays correspondants ne se soient mis d'accord pour ne percevoir aucune bonification du chef de ce transport.
11. Les frais de transport précités sont dus aussi pour les correspondances exemptes de frais de transit. Les dépêches ou correspondances mal dirigées ou détournées sont considérées, en ce qui concerne le payement des frais de transport, comme si elles avaient suivi leur voie normale . Cependant, pour le transport de dépêches à réexpédier par des services de la catégorie B, l'Administration inter-

3286

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

médiaire peut exiger la restitution des frais de transport. Le compte des frais de transport aérien s'effectue alors selon l'article 21 , §§ 1 et 3, des Dispositions.
12. Les Administrations des Pays survolés n'ont droit à aucune rémunération pour les dépêches transportées par voie aérienne au-dessus de leur territoire.
ARTICLE 15.
Frais de transport des correspondances-avion à découvert.
1.- - Les frais de transport des correspondances-avion qui sont échangées à découvert entre deux Administrations doivent être calculés d'après les dispositions de l'article 14, §§ 1 à 5 et 9 à 11. Toutefois, lorsque le territoire du Pays de destination de ces correspondances est desservi par une ligne comportant plusieurs escales sur ce territoire, les frais de transport sont calculés sur la base d'un tarif moyen évalué en fonction du tonnage du courrier débarqué à chaque escale.
2. Pour déterminer les frais de transport, le poids net de ces envois est majoré de 10 %3. L'Administration qui remet des correspondances-avion en transit à découvert à une autre Administration doit lui payer en entier les frais de transport calculés pour tout le parcours aérien ultérieur.
CHAPITRE IV.
Bureau international.
ARTICLE 16.
Communications à adresser au Bureau international et aux Administrations.
1. - Les Administrations doivent communiquer au Bureau international, sur les formules qui leur sont envoyées par celui-ci, les renseignements utiles concernant l'exécution du service postal aérien. Ces renseignements comportent notamment:
a) L'indication des lignes du service intérieur et du service international qui sont à la disposition des autres Administrations pour des transports de correspondances-avion en dépêches closes ou à découvert (numéro et parcours, longueur en kilomètres, pour les lignes du service intérieur distance moyenne calculée selon l'article 14, § 4, services de la catégorie A ou B, entreprise, etc. );
b) Les frais de transport par kilogramme dus par les Administrations qui recourent à l'emploi de ces lignes;
c) Les surtaxes aériennes perçues par chaque Administration pour les différentes catégories de correspondances-avion et pour les différents Pays;
d) Les décisions de chaque Administration au sujet de la faculté d'appliquer ou non certaines dispositions concernant le transport de la poste aux lettres par voie aérienne. 2.- Le Bureau international publie une fois par an, au mois de juin, d'après les informations
ainsi recueillies, une liste générale de renseignements concernant les services aéropostaux, qui est répartie entre les Administrations. Toutes modifications à apporter aux renseignements fournis ou à la liste gènrale doivent être communiquées sans retard au Bureau international par voie aérienne.
3. Le Bureau international est chargé également de dresser et de répartir des cartes indiquant les lignes postales de communications aériennes intérieures et internationales de tous les Pays, ainsi qu'une liste indiquant les horaires des lignes aériennes des réseaux intérieur et international de chaque Pays et les heures-limites auxquelles doivent arriver les avions dans les aéroports pour que le courrier puisse être compris dans les distributions de la journée.
4.- Les modifications éventuelles aux publications mentionnées aux §§ 2 et 3 sont communiquées qux Administrations par voie de suppléments.
5. Indépendamment de ce qui précède, les Administrations peuvent s'entendre pour se communiquer directement, avant chaque période d'horaire et à titre de renseignement provisoire, les informations et les horaires des lignes aériennes qui les intéressent plus spécialement.
6. Les Administrations qui utilisent des communications aériennes pour le transport de leurs propres courriers ordinaires doivent en informer les autres Administrations de l'Union par l'intermédiaire du Bureau international en leur communiquant en même temps la date à partir de laquelle ces communications sont utilisées, les relations ouvertes ainsi que toutes les modifications qui y sont apportées.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3287

CHAPITRE V.
Comptabilité. Règlement des comptes.
ARTICLE 17.
Statistique de décompte .
1. Sauf dérogation motivée par les circonstances, le décompte général des frais de transport aérien a lieu d'après des relevés statistiques établis dans les sept jours qui suivent le 14 mai et le 14 novembre de chaque année. Les données de la statistique de mai forment la base des bonifications dues pour les mois de mai à octobre; celles de novembre comptent pour les mois de novembre à avril.
2. Les statistiques concernant des services qui ne fonctionnent pas pendant les périodes de statistique régulières sont établies après entente entre les Administrations intéressées .
3. En ce qui concerne les services de la catégorie B, l'Administration chargée du transport par voie aérienne a la faculté de demander que les règlements de compte aient lieu mensuellement ou trimestriellement, sur la base du poids brut des dépêches ou du poids net majoré de 10 % des envois à découvert transportés réellement pendant la période envisagée. Dans ce cas, les dispositions des articles 19, 21 et 22 ci-après sont appliquées à la constatation du poids et à l'établissement des comptes, étant entendu que les relevés AV 3 et AV 4 doivent être établis mensuellement pour tous les transports aériens effectués, compte tenu de la date d'expédition indiquée par le bureau d'origine.
ARTICLE 18.
Confection des dépêches ordinaires ou des dépêches-avion pendant les périodes de statistique des frais de transport aérien.
Les dispositions de l'article 153 du Règlement d'exécution de la Convention ne s'appliquent pas aux statistiques biannuelles pour l'évaluation des frais du transport aérien. Toutefois, pendant la période de ces statistiques, les étiquettes ou suscriptions de dépêches qui contiennent des correspondances-avion doivent porter, d'une manière apparente, la mention " Statistique-avion».
ARTICLE 19.
Constatation du poids des dépêches-avion et des correspondances-avion .
1. Pendant les périodes de statistique, la date d'expédition, le poids brut et le numéro de la dépêche sont indiqués sur l'étiquette ou sur la suscription extérieure de la dépêche . L'insertion de dépêches-avion entrantes dans une autre dépêche de même nature est interdite.
2. - Si les lettres et les cartes postales ainsi que les autres objets sont réunis dans une dépêche transportée sur des lignes pour lesquelles un tarif réduit de transport s'applique aux A. O., le poids de chacune des deux catégories doit être indiqué en outre du poids total sur l'étiquette ou sur la suscription extérieure de la dépêche. Dans ce cas, le poids de l'emballage extérieur (sac ou paquet) est ajouté au poids des autres objets. En cas d'emploi d'un sac collecteur, le poids de ce sac est négligé.
3. Dans le cas où des correspondances à découvert, destinées à être réacheminées par voie aérienne, sont comprises dans une dépêche ordinaire ou dans une dépêche-avion, ces correspondances, réunies en une liasse spéciale étiquetée « Par avion», sont accompagnées de bordereaux conformes au modèle AV 2 ci-annexé, dont un pour les envois ordinaires et un autre pour les envois recommandés. Le poids des correspondances en transit à découvert est indiqué séparément pour chaque Pays de destination ou groupes de Pays pour lesquels les frais de transport sont uniformes. Dans les relations entre les Pays qui se sont mis d'accord pour ne percevoir aucune bonification du chef du réacheminement par la voie aérienne dans leur réseau interne, le poids des correspondances à découvert pour le Pays de destination même n'est pas indiqué. La feuille d'avis est revêtue de la mention « Bordereau AV 2» . Les Pays de transit ont la faculté de demander l'emploi de bordereaux spéciaux AV 2 mentionnant dans un ordre fixe les Pays et les lignes aériennes les plus importants. Lorsque le décompte des frais de transport aérien ne s'effectue pas d'après les relevés statistiques (services de la catégorie B, circons-

3288

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

tances exceptionnelles), les bordereaux AV 2 doivent être soumis à une numérotation spéciate suivant une série annuelle continue.
4. Ces indications sont vérifiées par le bureau d'échange destinataire. Si ce bureau constate que le poids réel des dépêches diffère de plus de 100 grammes et celui des correspondances à découvert de plus de 20 grammes du poids annoncé, il rectifie l'étiquette ou le bordereau AV 2 et signale immédiatement l'erreur au bureau d'échange expéditeur par bulletin de vérification. Lorsqu'il s'agit de dépêches closes, une copie de ce bulletin est adressée à chaque Administration intermédiaire. Si les différences de poids constatées restent dans les limites précitées, les indications du bureau expéditeur sont tenues pour valables.
5. L'absence de bordereau AV 2 n'autorise pas le Pays de transit à réexpédier les envois-avion par voie de surface. La retransmission par voie aérienne doit être assurée. Le cas échéant, le bordereau AV 2 est dressé d'office et l'irrégularité fait l'objet d'un bulletin C 14 à charge du bureau d'origine.
ARTICLE 20.
Liste des dépêches-avion closes.
Aussitôt que possible et, en tout cas, dans un délai d'un mois après chaque période de statistique, les Administrations qui ont expédié des dépêches-avion closes envoient, sur une formule C 18 appropriée, la liste de ces dépêches aux différentes Administrations dont elles ont emprunté les services aériens, y compris, le cas échéant, celle de destination.
ARTICLE 21.
Compte des frais de transport aérien réglés sur la base des statistiques."
1. Pendant les périodes de statistique, les Administrations intermédiaires prennent note, dans un relevé conforme au modèle AV 3 ci-annexé, des poids indiqués sur les étiquettes ou suscriptions extérieures des dépêches-avion qu'elles ont reacheminées par la voie aérienne, soit dans leur réseau interne, soit au-delà des frontières de leur Pays. En ce qui concerne les correspondances-avion à découvert qui leur parviennent des autres Administrations et qu'elles réacheminent par la voie aérienne, un relevé conforme au modèle AV 4 ci-annexé est dressé d'après les indications figurant sur les bordereaux AV 2. Les correspondances-avion contenues dans les dépêches ordinaires sont soumises au même procédé. Des relevés séparés sont dressés pour chaque bureau d'échange expéditeur de dépêches-avion ou de correspondances-avion à découvert.
2. Les Administrations de destination qui assurent le réacheminement de dépêches-avion ou de correspondances-avion par la voie aérienne dans leur réseau interne procèdent de la même manière.
3. Aussitôt que possible et, au plus tard, trois semaines après la clôture des opérations de statistique, les relevés AV 3 et AV 4 sont transmis en double expédition aux bureaux d'échange expéditeurs pour être revêtus de leur acceptation . Ces bureaux, après avoir accepté les relevés, les transmettent à leur tour à leur Administration centrale qui en fait parvenir un exemplaire à l'Administration centrale créancière.
4. Si l'Administration créancière n'a reçu aucune observation rectificative dans un intervalle de deux mois à compter de l'envoi, les relevés sont considérés comme admis de plein droit. Dans les relations entre Pays éloignés, ce délai est porté à trois mois.
ARTICLE 22.
Compte des frais de transport aérien.
1. Les poids bruts des dépêches et les poids nets majorés de 10 % des envois à découvert, figurant dans les relevés AV 3 ou AV 4, sont multipliés par un chiffre établi d'après la fréquence des services d'été et d'hiver ; les produits ainsi obtenus servent de base à des comptes particuliers dressés sur la formule conforme au modèle AV 5 ci-annexé et établissant en francs les prix de transport revenant à chaque Administration pour le semestre en cours.
.2. Le soin de dresser ces comptes incombe à l'Administration créancière qui les transmet à l'Administration débitrice.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3289

3. -- Les comptes particuliers sont aresses en double expédition et transmis aussitôt que possible à l'Administration débitrice. Si l'Administration créancière n'a reçu aucune observation rectificative dans un intervalle de deux mois à compter de l'envoi, ce compte est considéré comme admis de plein droit. Dans les relations entre Pays éloignés, ce délai est porté à trois mois.
ARTICLE 23.
Décompte général .
Sauf entente contraire entre les Administrations intéressées, le décompte général des frais de transport aérien est établi deux fois par an par le Bureau international d'après les règles fixées pour le décompte des frais de transit.
CHAPITRE VI.
Dispositions diverses.
ARTICLE 24.
Signalisation des correspondances-avion.
Les correspondances-avion surtaxées sont revêtues, au départ, d'une étiquette spéciale ou d'une empreinte de couleur bleue comportant les mots « Par avion » avec traduction facultative dans la langue du Pays d'origine.
ARTICLE 25.
Signalisation des dépêches-avion.
1. Lorsque les correspondances-avion donnent lieu à la formation de dépêches distinctes, celles-ci doivent être confectionnées avec du papier bleu ou au moyen de sacs, soit entièrement bleus, soit portant de larges bandes bleues.
2. Les Administrations intéressées se mettent d'accord sur la mention spéciale à porter sur les étiquettes des sacs des dépêches closes contenant des correspondances-avion non surtaxées.
ARTICLE 26.
Mode d'expédition des correspondances- avion .
Les dispositions des articles 145, § 2, lettre a) , et 147 du Règlement d'exécution de la Convention s'appliquent, par analogie, aux correspondances-avion insérées dans des dépêches ordinaires. Les étiquettes des liasses doivent porter l'annotation « Par avion>>.
2. En cas d'insertion de correspondances-avion recommandées dans des dépêches ordinaires, la mention « Par avion» doit être portée à la place prescrite au § 3 dudit article 147 pour la mention <Exprès».
3. S'il s'agit de correspondances-avion avec valeur déclarée insérées dans des dépêches ordinaires, la mention « Par avion » est portée dans la colonne « Observations» des feuilles d'envoi en regard de l'inscription de chacune d'elles.
4. Les correspondances-avion expédiées en transit à découvert dans une dépêche-avion ou dans une dépêche ordinaire et qui doivent être réacheminées par voie aérienne par le Pays destinataire de la dépêche, sont réunies en une liasse spéciale étiquetée « Par avion».
5. Le Pays de transit peut demander la formation de liasses spéciales par Pays de destination. Dans ce cas, chaque liasse est revêtue d'une étiquette portant la mention « Par avion pour ...».
ARTICLE 27.
Bordereaux de chargement et de livraison des dépêches. 1. Les dépêches à remettre à l'aéroport sont accompagnées d'un bordereau de chargement de couleurjaune et d'un bordereau de livraison de couleur blanche conformes aux modèles AV 6 et AV 7 ci-annexés.

3290

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

[62 STAT.

2. Un exemplaire du bordereau de chargement signé par le représentant de la compagnie aérienne est conservé par le bureau expéditeur; un deuxième exemplaire, remis au pilote, accompagne les dépêches,
3. Un bordereau de livraison , dressé pour chacune des escales aériennes, est inséré dans un portefeuille à compartiments, le premier étant réservé aux bordereaux de chargement postal, les autres, à raison d'un par escale, aux bordereaux de livraison de chaque escale.
ARTICLE 28. Transbordement des dépêches-avion. Sauf entente contraire entre les Administrations intéressées, le transbordement en cours de route, dans un même aéroport, des dépêches qui empruntent successivement plusieurs services aériens distincts, se fait par l'intermédiaire de l'Administration du Pays où a lieu le transbordement. Cette règle ne s'applique pas lorsque ce transbordement a lieu entre les appareils assurant les sections successives d'un même service.
ARTICLE 29.
Annotations à porter sur les feuilles d'avis , sur les feuilles d'envoi et sur les étiquettes des dépêches-avion. Les feuilles d'avis et les feuilles d'envoi accompagnant des dépêches-avion doivent être revêtues
dans leur ep-tête de l'étiquette « Par avion» ou de l'empreinte visée à l'article 24. La même étiquette ou empreinte est appliquée sur les étiquettes ou suscriptions de ces dépêches. Le numéro des dépêches doit être indiqué sur les étiquettes ou suscriptions de ces dépêches.
ARTICLE 30.
Dédouanement des correspondances passibles de droits de douane.
Les Administrations prennent des mesures pour accélérer autant que possible le dédouanement des correspondances-avion passibles de droits de douane.
ARTICLE 31. Renvoi des sacs-avion vides. 1. Les sacs-avion doivent être renvoyés vides à l'Administration d'origine par voie de surface. Dès que leur nombre est au moins égal à dix, ils donnent lieu à la formation de dépêches spéciales entre bureaux d'échange-avion désignés à cet effet; ces dépêches sont étiquetées « Sacs vides » et numérotées suivant une série annuelle. La feuille d'avis indique le nombre de sacs renvoyés au Pays d'origine. 2. Les dispositions des §§ 5 et 6 de l'article 151 du Règlement de la Convention sont applicables aux sacs-avion vides.
ARTICLE 32.
Application des dispositions de la Convention et des Arrangements .
Les dispositions de la Convention et des Arrangements ainsi que de leurs Règlements, exception faite de l'Arrangement des colis postaux et de son Règlement, sont applicables en tout ce qui n'est pas expressément réglé par les articles précédents .
ARTICLE 33. Mise à exécution et durée des Dispositions adoptées.
1. Les présentes Dispositions seront exécutoires à partir du jour de la mise en vigueur de la Convention.
2. Elles auront la même durée que cette Convention , à moins qu'elles ne soient renouvelées d'un commun accord entre les Parties intéressées.
Fait à Paris, le 5 juillet 1947.
Signatures. (Les mêmes qu'aux pages 29 et suivantes.) [ 1]
1 For signatures , see p. 3188 ; for romanization , see p . 3416

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3291

PROTOCOLE FINAL DES DISPOSITIONS CONCERNANT LE TRANSPORT DE LA POSTE
AUX LETTRES PAR VOIE AÉRIENNE
I. Frais de transport aérien des dépêches closes. A titre exceptionnel, les Administrations ont la faculté, sous réserve d'en aviser les Administrations intéressées, d'appliquer les tarifs de la catégorie B pour chaque parcours de leur réseau aérien interne.
II. Faculté de réduire l'échelon de poids unitaire des correspondances-avion . Les Administrations dont le système de poids le permet ont la faculté d'adopter des échelons d'un poids inférieur à celui de 20 grammes prévu à l'article 5. Dans ce cas, la surtaxe est fixée suivant l'échelon de poids adopté.
III. Surtaxes exceptionnelles. 1. A titre d'exception, les Administrations ont la faculté d'appliquer aux correspondances-avion visées à l'article 5, § 2, une surtaxe spéciale de transport aérien qui ne doit pas dépasser 7½ centimes par 20 grammes et par 1000 kilomètres. 2. Les Administrations d'Europe faisant usage de la faculté prévue au § 1 et qui, par suite de la situation géographique de leurs Pays, éprouvent des difficultés à adopter une surtaxe uniforme pour toute l'Europe sont autorisées à percevoir des surtaxes proportionnelles aux distances, suivant les dispositions de l'article 5, § 4. 3. Cette faculté est accordée également aux autres Pays d'Europe pour leur trafic avec les Pays mentionnés au § 2. 4. En raison de la situation géographique spéciale de l'U. R. S. S., l'Administration de ce Pays se réserve le droit d'appliquer une surtaxe uniforme sur tout le territoire de l'U. R. S. S., pour tous les Pays du monde. Cette surtaxe ne dépassera pas les frais réels occasionnés par le transport de la correspondance par voie aérienne.
Fait à Paris, le 5 juillet 1947. Signatures.
(Les mêmes qu'aux pages 29 et suivantes.) [ 1]
¹ For signatures , see p . 3188 ; for romanization , see p . 3416 .

3292

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ANNEXE FORMULES

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION --JULY 5, 1947

3293

PAYS D'ORIGINE:

AV 1 (Art. 3, § 5)
PAYS DE DESTINATION:

1re Partie
Dépêche aérienne du bureau d pour du acheminée sur la ligne aérienne

BULLETIN D'ESSAI

2e Purtie

La dépêche en question a été reçue par le bureau

d

le

à

heure

Les correspondances non en transi! y insérées ont été

livrées aux destinataires le

Le Chef de bureau: A restituer au bureau d

Le Chef de bureau:

(Dimensions : 210 297 mm.)

3294

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION EXPÉDITRICE DE LA DÉPÈCHE :

AV 2 (art. 19, § 3)
ADMINISTRATION DESTINATAIRE DE LA DÉPÈCHE :

Timbre du bureau expéditeur

BORDEREAU DES POIDS DES CORRESPONDANCES -AVION

ordinaire No contenues dans la dépêche -avion du bureau d'échange d

pour le bureau d'échange d

expédiée le

19

h.

Timbre du bureau destinataire
m.

Numéro d'ordre

Noms des Pays de destination des correspondancês-avion

Poids net
Grammes 3

Observations 4

(Dimensions : 210x 297 mm.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3295

ADMINISTRATION EXPÉDITRICE DE LA DÉPÊCHE :

AV 3 (art. 21, § 1)
ADMINISTRATION RÉACHEMINANT LA DEPECHE :

TRANSPORT AÉRIEN DE DÉPÊCHES -AVION CLOSES

Relevé des poids bruts des dépêches-avion réacheminées par le bureau d'échange d

la période de la statistique ¹ ) du

au

19

pendant

Date

Numéro d'expé-

d'ordre

dition du bureau

d'origine

Bureau  Bureau de

d'origine

destination

de la dépêche

La dépêche

a été

No

reacheminée de la ligne

par voie aérienne!

aérienne

d

utilisée

à

7

Poids brut de la dépêche
Grammes

Observations

, le

19

Le Chef du bureau transitaire :

Total

le

19

Vu et accepté : Le Chef du bureau d'origine :

¹) Lorsque le décompte a lieu sur la base des poids réellement transportés, le relevé est établi par mois. (Dimensions: 210x 297 mm.)

3296

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ADMINISTRATION EXPÉDITRICE DE LA DÉPÊCHE :

AV 4 (art. 21, § 1)
ADMINISTRATION DESTINATAIRE DE LA DÉPÉCHE :

TRANSPORT AÉRIEN DE CORRESPONDANCES -AVION

-avion Relevé du poids net des correspondances-avion contenues dans les dépêches ordinaires

du bureau d'échange d

pour le bureau d'échange d

expédiées pendant la période de la statistique ¹) du

au

19

No Date N° de la

No

d'expédi- ligne

d'ordre de la tion du aérienne

dépêche bureau utilisée

d'origine

2

Poids des correspondances-avion destinées au Pays de réception de la
dépêche 2)
Grammes

Poids net des correspondances-avion destinées à d'autres Pays

Parcours aériens intermédiaires
Grammes

Parcours aérien dans le Pays de
destination *)
Grammes 7

Pays de destination

Observations

Total

1) Lorsque le décomp.e a lieu sur la base des poids réellement transportés, le relevé est établi par mois.

aérienne

1) à

lL'eisntécroileounrnedse

5soent

te7rrnietoisroen. t

Lreesmpcloiersreqspuoenddaanncsesl-eavciaosn

odùestleinéPeasysà

de la

destination localité de

ld'aeésrocpoorrrtesdpeonrdéacnecpetsi- oanviodn'usnee

charge de leur dépéebe-avion

réacheminement par n'entrent pas dans le

la voie calcul

de poids.

le.

19.

le

19.....

Le Chef du bureau transitaire:

Vu et accepté: Le Chef du bureau d'origine :

83566 O- 49 - 10

(Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm.)

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3297

ADMINISTRATION EXPÉDITRICE des Dépêches:

AV 5 (art. 22, § 1)
ADMINISTRATION DESTINATAIRE RÉEXPÉDITRICE DES DEPÊCHES

FRAIS DE TRANSPORT AERIEN

Services ddee llaa ccaattééggoorriiee AB..

Compte des sommes dues à l'Administration d

des correspondances expédiées par l'Administration d

période de la statistique du

au

pour le transport aérien pendant la 19

Bureaux d'origine
1

Bureaux destinataires
réexpéditeurs 2

Pays de destination des envois

No de la
ligne aérienne utilisée

Poids Durée Multibrut de l'ex- plie net pltoiiotna- par
67

Poids pour la saison
8
9

Taux de bonification
par kg 9
Fr. C.

Avoir de
10 Fr.

Observations 11

Majoration de 10% sur le total du transit à découvert: Total

, le

19

Le Chef du bureau destinataire réexpéditeur:

Vu et accepté: Le Chef du bureau d'origine:

(Dimensions : 210 x 297 mm.)

3298

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Timbre du bureau expéditeur

BORDEREAU DE CHARGEMENT

pour le vol nº

du

Titre de la compagnie aérienne

AV 6 (art. 27, § 1)

Nombre des sacs,
etc., à remettre
1

Contenant des

corres-

jour-

pon- colis naux

dances

2

3

4

Aéroport de déchargement

Poids brut des sacs, etc., de

corres-pondances
A
kg 9

colis journaux

7

B

kg 9 kg 9

Observations

Totaur

Signature de l'agent postal cédant:

Signature de l'agent compétantde l'aéroport:

(Dimensions : 210 x297 mm. couleur jaune.)

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3299

Timbr du bureau expéditeur

BORDEREAU DE LIVRAISON des dépêches aériennes
pour le bureau d

41 7
(art. 27, § 1) Timbre du bureau
destinataire

Départ le (de l'aéroport)

Aéroport de déchargement 19 à h.

No de la dépêche

Bureau d'origine

Sacs ¡ Colis Sacs Poids brut des sacs, elc., de

ou plis ou ou pa-

de Bureau destinataire corres-

sacs

quets de

de

corres-

pondances

colis

journaux

pondances

colis

journaux

38

7

9

kg 9 kg 9 kg 9

Observations 10

Totaux

Signature du bureau expéditeur:

Signature du bureau destinataire:

68706 0-51 - PT. III-

(Dimensions: 210 x 297 mm. couleur blanche.) -44

3300

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES

[62 STAT.

54 Stat. 2049.

Having examined and considered the provisions of the foregoing Convention , with its Final Protocol , Regulations , Air- Mail Provisions, and Final Protocol to the Air-Mail Provisions , signed at Faris on the 5th day of July, 1947, revising the Universal Postal Convention which was concluded at Buenos Aires on the 23rd day of May, 1939 ; the same are by me , by virtue of the powers vested by law in the Postmaster General, hereby ratified and approved , by and with the advice and consent of the President of the United States of America .

p.A3n3t1e0., p. 3168; Post,

This ratification is applicable to the United States of America, the insular possessions of the United States of America mentioned in Article 8 ( 10 ) of the aforementioned Convention signed at Paris on the 5th day of July, 1947, and to Samoa and the Panama Canal Zone .

In witness whereof, I have caused the seal of the Post Office Department of the United States of America to be hereunto affixed this
1st day of Jane 1948.

[ SEAL ]

Peronaldon Postmaster General .

I hereby approve the above -mentioned Convention , with its Final Protocol , Regulations , Air-Mail Provisions , and Final Protocol to the
Air-Mail Provisions , and in testimony thereof have caused the seal of the United States of America to be hereto affixed .

By the President :

 

Secretary of State .

Washington ,

June 9, 1948 .

[SEAL ]

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3301

Translation prepared by the Post Office Department UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION
DOCUMENTS OF THE PARIS CONGRESS 1947
TEXT OF THE UNIVERSAL POSTAL CONVENTION
SIGNED AT PARIS

3302

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

This copy is certified to be a true copy of the sole copy of the Convention of the Universal Postal Union, drawn up in French, signed in Paris on July Fifth, Nineteen Hundred Forty-seven, and deposited in the archives of the French Republic .
JACQUES DUMAINE
The Minister Plenipotentiary Chief ofthe Protocol Service, JACQUES DUMaine.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3303

UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION
DOCUMENTS OF THE PARIS CONGRESS 1947
TEXT OF THE UNIVERSAL POSTAL CONVENTION
SIGNED AT PARIS
The authentic instrument of this Convention is kept in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of France, which has acknowledged the conformity of the present copy with that original.

Note. The portions of the text printed in italics [in the French text, but not in
this translation] indicate the changes made by the Paris Congress in the preceding Acts of Buenos Aires 1939.

3304

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Table of Contents Convention Final Protocol of the Convention .

Pages 3308
3337

Annex. Agreement between the United Nations and the Universal

Postal Union .

3342

Regulations of Execution of the Convention

3350

Appendix (Forms) to the Regulations of Execution of the Convention [Not given in translation-see French text, p. 3250]

Provisions Concerning the Transportation of Regular Mails by Air . . . 3402

Final Protocol of the Provisions Concerning the Transportation of Regular

Mails by Air . ·

· 3415

Appendix (Forms) to the Provisions Concerning the Transportation of Regular Mails by Air [ Not given in translation- see French text, p. 3292]

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3305

Table of the Articles
of the
UNIVERSAL POSTAL CONVENTION
1. CONVENTION.
TITLE I.
Universal Postal Union .
CHAPTER I.
Organization and extent ofjurisdiction of the Union. Art. 1. Constitution and aims of the Union .
2. Relations with the United Nations. 3. New Adhesions . Procedure. 4. Convention and Agreements of the Union . 5. Regulations of Execution. 6. Restricted Unions. Special agreements. 7. Domestic legislation. 8. Colonies. Protectorates, etc. 9. Application of the Convention to Colonies , Protectorates, etc. 10. Extent of jurisdiction of the Union . 11. Exceptional Relations . 12. Arbitration. 13. Withdrawal from the Union . Termination of participation in the
Agreements . CHAPTER II.
Congresses . Conferences . Committees. Art. 14. Congresses.
15. Ratifications. Entry into force and duration of the Acts of Congresses . 16. Extraordinary Congresses. 17. Regulations for Congresses. 18. Executive and Liaison Committee. Composition. Functions. Opera-
tion. 19. Conferences. 20. Committees.
CHAPTER III .
Propositions in the interval between meetings . Art. 21. Introduction of propositions .
22. Examination of propositions. 23. Conditions of approval. 24. Notification of decisions. 25. Effective date of decisions.
CHAPTER IV.
International Bureau. Art. 26. General functions.
27. Expenses of the International Bureau.

3306

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
TITLE II.
General Regulations.
SOLE CHAPTER.
Art. 28. Freedom of transit. 29. Prohibition against unauthorized charges. 30. Temporary suspension of services . 31. Monetary standard. 32. Equivalents. 33. Forms. Language. 34. Postal identity cards.
TITLE III .
Provisions Concerning Postal Correspondence.
CHAPTER I.
General provisions.
Art. 35. Articles of correspondence. 36. Postage rates and general conditions. 37. Prepayment . 38. Charge on unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid correspondence. 39. Surcharges. 40. Special charges. 41. Dutiable articles . 42. Customs inspection . 43. Customs-clearance fee. 44. Customs duties and other non-postal charges . 45. Articles free of charges . 46. Cancellation of customs duty and other non-postal charges. 47. Special-delivery articles. 48. Articles to be delivered to addressee only. 49. Prohibitions . 50. Methods of prepayment. 51. Prepayment of correspondence on board ships. 52. Franking privilege. 53. International reply coupons. 54. Withdrawal. Change of address. 55. Forwarding . Undelivered correspondence . 56. Inquiries and requests for information .
CHAPTER II.
Registered articles. Art. 57. Charges .
58. Return receipts . 59. Extent of responsibility. 60. Exceptions to the principle of responsibility. 61. Termination of responsibility. 62. Fixing of responsibility. 63. Payment of indemnity. 64. Period for payment of indemnity. 65. Repayment of the indemnity to the Administration of origin

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5 , 1947
CHAPTER III.
Allocation of postage . Transit charges. Art. 66. Allocation of postage.
67. Transit charges . 68. Exemption from transit charges . 69. Extraordinary services . 70. Payments and accounts . 71. Exchange of closed mails with warships.
Miscellaneous provisions. Art. 72. Failure to observe freedom of transit.
73. Obligations relative to penal measures .
Final provisions. Art. 74. Effective date and duration of the Convention .
2. FINAL PROTOCOL OF THE CONVENTION.
I. Withdrawal . Change of address. II. Equivalents . Maximum and minimum limits. III . Exception to the application of the rates for commercial papers, prints,
and samples of merchandise. IV. Avoirdupois ounce. V. Mailing of correspondence in another country. VI. International reply coupons. VII. Registration fee. VIII. Air services . IX. Exception to freedom of transit for small packets . X. Special transit charges for the Trans-Siberian and Trans-Andean routes. XI . Special transit conditions for Afghanistan . XII. Special warehousing charges at Aden. XIII. Special charges for transshipment . XIV. Protocol left open to the countries not represented . XV. Protocol left open to the countries represented for signatures and adhesions . XVI. Period for notification of adhesions . XVII. Protocol left open to countries momentarily prevented from adhering to
the Convention and to the Agreements.

3307

3308

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION

UNIVERSAL POSTAL CONVENTION
CONCLUDED BETWEEN
AFGHANISTAN, the UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA, the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA, GERMANY, the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, the whole of the POSSESSIONS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, the KINGDOM OF SAUDI ARABIA, the ARGENTINE REPUBLIC, the COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, AUSTRIA, BELGIUM , the COLONY OF THE BELGIAN CONGO, the SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF BYELORUSSIA, BOLIVIA, BRAZIL, the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, CANADA, CHILE, CHINA, the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA, KOREA, the REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA, the REPUBLIC OF CUBA, DENMARK , the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC , EGYPT, the REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR, ECUADOR , SPAIN, the whole of the SPANISH COLONIES , , FINLAND, FRANCE, ALGERIA, INDOCHINA, the whole of the other OVERSEAS TERRITORIES OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC AND TERRITORIES ADMINISTERED AS SUCH , the UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND , the whole of the BRITISH OVERSEAS TERRITORIES , including the COLONIES, the PROTECTORATES and the TERRITORIES UNDER MANDATE OR UNDER TRUSTEESHIP EXERCISED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND , GREECE , GUATEMALA, the REPUBLIC OF HAITI , the REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS , HUNGARY, INDIA, IRAN, IRAQ, IRELAND , the REPUBLIC OF ICELAND, ITALY, JAPAN , LEBANON , the REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA, LUXEMBOURG,
MOROCCO (EXCEPT THE SPANISH ZONE) , MOROCCO (SPANISH ZONE) , MEXICO , NICARAGUA, NORWAY, NEW ZEALAND , the REPUBLIC OF PANAMA, PARAGUAY , the NETHERLANDS , CURAÇAO AND SURINAM , the NETHERLANDS INDIES , PERU, the REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES , POLAND , PORTUGAL, the PORTUGUESE COLONIES IN WEST AFRICA, the PORTUGUESE COLONIES IN EAST AFRICA, IN ASIA AND OCEANIA, RUMANIA, the REPUBLIC OF SAN MARINO, SIAM , SWEDEN , the SWISS CONFEDERATION , SYRIA, CZECHOSLOVAKIA, the HASHIMITE KINGDOM OF TRANS-JORDAN , TUNISIA, TURKEY , the SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE, the UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS , the ORIENTAL REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY , the VATICAN CITY STATE , the UNITED STATES OF VENEZUELA, YEMEN , and the PEOPLE'S FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA.

54 Stat. 2056.

The undersigned , plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries above enumerated , being assembled in Congress at Paris by virtue of Article 13 of the Universal Postal Convention concluded
at Buenos Aires on May 23 , 1939 , have, by common consent and subject to ratification , revised the said Convention to read as follows :

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947 TITLE I.
Universal Postal Union

3309

CHAPTER I.

Organization and extent of jurisdiction of the Union. ARTICLE 1 .

Constitution and aims of the Union .
1. The countries between which the present Convention is concluded form , under the name of Universal Postal Union , a single postal territory for the reciprocal exchange of correspondence .
2. The purpose of the Postal Union is to assure the organization and improvement of the various postal services and to encourage in this sphere the development of international co - operation .

Purpose.

ARTICLE 2 .

Relations with the United Nations.

The Union is placed in relationship with the United Nations under the terms of the agreement whose text is appended to the present Convention.
ARTICLE 3 .

Post, p. 3342.

New adhesions . Procedure.

1. Any sovereign country may make at any time a request to adhere to the Convention .
2. The request for adherence is transmitted through diplomatic channels to the Government of the Swiss Confederation and by the latter to the members of the Union.
3. The country concerned is considered as admitted to membership if the request is approved by at least two thirds of the countries forming the Union .
4. The countries consulted which may not have replied in a period of four months are considered as having abstained .
5. The admission to membership is made known by the government of the Swiss Confederation to the Governments of all the countries of the Union.
ARTICLE 4.

Convention and Agreements of the Union .
1. The regular-mail service is governed by the provisions of the Convention.
2. Other services, such as those of insured letters and boxes, parcel post , collect-on-delivery articles , money orders , postal checks , collection orders, and subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, form the subject of Agreements between countries of the Union. Such Agreements are binding only upon countries which have adhered to them.

3310

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
3. Notice of adhesion to one or more of those agreements is give.n in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 , Section 2 .
ARTICLE 5.
Regulations of Execution . The Postal Administrations of the countries of the Union draw up, by mutual agreement, in the form of Regulations of Execution , the measures of procedure and detail necessary for the execution of the Convention and the Agreements .
ARTICLE 6 .
Restricted Unions . Special Agreements .
1. The countries of the Union and , insofar as their legislation is not opposed to it, the Administrations, may establish restricted Unions and make special agreements among themselves concerning the subjects dealt with in the Convention and its Regulations , on the condition, however, that they do not introduce therein any provisions less favorable, for the public, than those which are provided for by those Acts.
2. The same option is granted to the countries which participate in the Agreements and, should the occasion arise, to their Administrations, in regard to the subjects contemplated by those Acts and their Regulations .
ARTICLE 7.
Domestic legislation .
The provisions of the Convention and Agreements of the Union do not prejudice the legislation of any country concerning anything which is not expressly provided for by those Acts.
ARTICLE 8 .
Colonies, Protectorates , etc. The following are considered as forming a single country or a single Administration of the Union , as the case may be, in the sense of the Convention and Agreements , particularly in regard to their right to vote in Congresses and Conferences and in the interval between meetings, as well as their contribution to the expenses of the International Bureau of the Universal Postal Union :
1º The whole of the Possessions of the United States of America, comprising Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands of the United States of America ;
2º The Colony of the Belgian Congo ; 3º The whole of the Spanish Colonies ; 4º Algeria ; 5º Indochina ; 6º The whole of the other Overseas Territories of the French
Republic and Territories administered as such ;

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL -- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947
7° The whole of the British Overseas Territories , including the Colonies, the Protectorates and the Territories under Mandate or under Trusteeship exercised by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ;
8° Curaçao and Surinam ; 9º The Netherlands Indies ; 10° The Portuguese Colonies in West Africa ; 11° The Portuguese Colonies in East Africa, Asia and Oceania.
ARTICLE 9 .
Application of the Convention to Colonies, Protectorates, etc. 1. Any contracting party may declare, either at the time of its signature, ratification or adhesion , or subsequently, that its acceptance of the present Convention includes all its colonies , overseas territories , protectorates or territories under suzerainty or mandate, or certain of them only . The said declaration , unless made at the time of signing the Convention, shall be addressed to the Government of the Swiss Confederation . 2. The Convention will apply only to the colonies , overseas territories, protectorates or territories under suzerainty or mandate in whose name declarations have been made by virtue of Section 1 . 3. Any contracting party may at any time address to the Government of the Swiss Confederation a notification with a view to denouncing the application of the Convention to any colony, overseas territory, protectorate or territory under suzerainty or mandate in the name of which that party has made a declaration by virtue of Section 1. Such notification will become effective one year after the date of its receipt by the Government of the Swiss Confederation . 4. The Government of the Swiss Confederation will transmit to all the contracting parties a copy of every declaration or notification received by virtue of Sections 1 to 3. 5. The provisions of the present Article do not apply to any colony, overseas territory , protectorate or territory under suzerainty or mandate enumerated in the Preamble of the Convention.
ARTICLE 10.
Extent of Jurisdiction of the Union.
The following are considered as belonging to the Universal Postal Union:
(a) The post offices established by countries of the Union in territories not included in the Union ;
(b) The other territories which, without being members of the Union, are included in it because they are dependent upon countries of the Union from a postal viewpoint . [ ']
¹ The list of these territories will be included in the Official Digest of Information of General Interest Concerning the Execution of the Convention and its Regulations, published by the International Bureau in compliance with Article 173, § 2, of the Regulations.

3311

3312

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
ARTICLE 11.
Exceptional relations . Administrations which serve territories not included in the Union are bound to act as intermediaries for the other Administrations. The provisions of the Convention and its Regulations are applicable to such exceptional relations .
ARTICLE 12.
Arbitration .
1. In case of disagreement between two or more members of the Union as to the interpretation of the Convention and Agreements , as well as of their Regulations of Execution , or of the responsibility imposed upon an Administration by the application of those Acts , the question in dispute is settled by arbitration . To that end, each of the Administrations concerned chooses another member of the Union which is not directly interested in the matter .
2. If one of the Administrations involved in the dispute does not take any action on a proposal for arbitration within a period of six months, or nine months in the case of distant countries , the International Bureau , if asked to do so , calls upon the defaulting Administration to appoint an arbitrator, or appoints one itself without further formality .
3. The decision of the arbitrators is made on an absolute majority of votes.
4. In case of a tie vote , the arbitrators , for the purpose of settling the difference, choose another Administration which likewise has no interest in the dispute . In case of disagreement as to a choice, that Administration is designated by the International Bureau from among the members of the Union not proposed by the arbitrators .
5. If it is a question of a dispute concerning one of the Agreements, only such Administrations as execute that Agreement may be designated as arbitrators .
ARTICLE 13.
Withdrawal from the Union . Termination of participation in the Agreements .
Any contracting party has the option of withdrawing from the Union or of ceasing to participate in one or more of the Agreements by notice given one year in advance through diplomatic channels to the Government of the Swiss Confederation and by the latter to the Governments of the contracting countries.
CHAPTER II. Congresses. Conferences. Committees .
ARTICLE 14.
Congresses .
1. Delegates from the countries of the Union meet in Congress not later than five years after the effective date of the Acts of the preceding Congress , with a view to revising or completing those Acts , if necessary .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3313

2. Each country is represented at the Congress by one or more

plenipotentiary delegates, provided with the necessary powers by

their government . It may, if necessary, be represented by the

delegation of another country. However, it is understood that a

delegation may represent only one country besides its own. 3. In the deliberations , each country has but one vote . 4. Each Congress fixes the meeting-place of the next Congress .

Votes.
Subsequent meeting place.

The latter is called together by the government of the country in

which it is to be held , after agreement with the International Bureau.

That government is likewise charged with notifying all the governments of the countries of the Union of the decisions made by the Congress .

ARTICLE 15 .

Ratifications. Entry into force and duration of the Acts of Congresses .
1. The Acts of Congresses are ratified as soon as possible, and the ratifications are communicated to the government of the country where the Congress was held, and by that government to the governments of the contracting countries .
2. In the event that one or more of the contracting countries should not ratify one or another of the Acts signed by them, the latter would nevertheless be valid for the countries which have ratified them.
3. Those Acts are put into effect simultaneously and have the same duration .
4. As of the date fixed for the entry into force of the Acts adopted by a Congress , all the Acts of the preceding Congress are abrogated .
ARTICLE 16.

Extraordinary Congresses.
1. An extraordinary Congress is called together by agreement with the International Bureau when a request to that effect is made or approved by at least two-thirds of the contracting countries.
2. The rules laid down by Articles 14 and 15 are applicable to the delegations, the deliberations , and the Acts of extraordinary Congresses.
ARTICLE 17.

Rules applicable.

Regulations for Congresses.
Each Congress draws up the necessary regulations for its work and deliberations .
ARTICLE 18.
Executive and Liaison Committee.
Composition. Functions . Operation.
1. In the interval between Congresses, an Executive and Liaison Committee assures the continuance of the work of the Universal Postal Union in accordance with the provisions of the Convention and the Agreements .
2. The headquarters of the Committee are at Berne ; meetings are generally held at the Committee's headquarters .

3314
Post, p. 3317. Functions.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
3. The Committee is composed of 19 members , who carry on their functions during the period between two successive Congresses .
4. The member countries of the Committee are selected by the Congress . At least half of the members must be renewed at each Congress ; no country may be chosen by three Congresses in succession. The Director of the International Bureau performs the duties of General Secretary of the Committee.
5. The representative of each of the member countries of the Committee is designated by the Postal Administration of the country concerned . The representatives of the member countries of the Committee must be qualified officials of the Postal Administrations .
6. At the first meeting, which is convened by the President of the last Congress , the Committee elects among its members a Chairman and four Vice-Chairmen , and draws up the necessary regulations for its activities and deliberations .
7. The services of the Committee members are gratuitous . The operating costs are charged to the Universal Postal Union . The representatives of overseas countries may obtain reimbursement for a round-trip airplane or steamship ticket.
8. The expenses provided for in Section 7 may not exceed 100,000 francs per year ; they are added to those which the International Bureau is authorized to defray under Article 27 of the Convention.
9. The Committee holds regular meetings , generally once a year at the call of the Chairman.
10. The Committee may invite any representative of an international organization , or other qualified person whom it desires to include in its activities , to take part in its meetings without the right to vote. Consultative subcommittees may be formed for the study of special questions .
11. The functions of the Committee are as follows:
(a) Maintaining closest possible contact with member countries of the Union with a view to improving the international postal service ;
(b) Studying technical questions of every nature which are of interest to the international postal service , and informing the member countries of the Union as to the results of such studies ;
(c) Keeping appropriate contact with the United Nations Organization , its Councils and its Committees , as well as with specialized institutions and other international organizations, for studies and for the preparation of reports to be submitted for the approval ofthe members of the Union . Sending one of its members when necessary to represent the Union and attend meetings of all such international organizations in its name;
(d) If necessary, formulating the proposition to be submitted for the approval of the contracting countries in accordance with Articles 22 and 23 of the Convention ;
(e) Within the framework of the Convention and its Regulations , checking the operations of the International Bureau, whose

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3315

Director as well as other unclassified personnel it names when necessary upon the recommendation of the Government of the Swiss Confederation ; approving on the recommendation of the Director of the Bureau the appointments of other employees ; and authorizing the use of additional personnel considered necessary; preparing an annual report on the operations of the Bureau which it sends to the members of the Union.
12. At the close of each meeting, the Committee sends an analytical report to the Administrations of the countries of the Union as information .
13. The Committee makes a report to the Congress on all of its activities, and sends it to the contracting countries at least two months before the opening of the Congress .

Reports.

ARTICLE 19 .

Conferences.
1. Conferences charged with the examination of purely administrative questions may be called together at the request or with the consent of at least two-thirds of the Administrations of the Union . They are called together after agreement with the International Bureau .
2. Each Conference draws up its own regulations.

Regulations .

ARTICLE 20.

Committees.

Committees charged by a Congress or a Conference with the study of one or more particular questions are called together by the International Bureau, after agreement, if necessary, with the Administration of the country where such Committees are to meet .

CHAPTER III.
Propositions in the Interval Between Meetings.
ARTICLE 21.
Introduction of propositions.
1. In the interval between meetings any Administration has the right to address to the other Administrations, through the intermediary of the International Bureau, propositions concerning the Convention, its Final Protocol, and its Regulations .
2. The same right is accorded to the Administrations of the countries participating in the Agreements in regard to those Agreements , their Regulations, and their Final Protocols .
3. In order to be considered , all propositions introduced by an Administration in the interval between meetings must be supported by at least two other Administrations . Such propositions are ignored when the International Bureau does not receive, at the same time, the necessary number of declarations of support.
68706-52- PT. III- -45

3316

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 22.

Examination of propositions.
1. Every proposition is submitted to the following procedure : A period of two months is allowed for the Administrations to examine the propositions and send their observations, if any , to the International Bureau . Amendments are not accepted . The replies are assembled by the International Bureau and communicated to the Administrations , with an invitation to pronounce themselves for or against. Those which have not sent in their votes within a period of two months are considered as abstaining . The periods above mentioned are counted from the dates of the circulars of the International Bureau .
2. If the proposition concerns an Agreement, its Regulations , or their Final Protocols , only the Administrations which have adhered to that Agreement may take part in the procedure indicated in Section 1 .

ARTICLE 23.

Ante, p. 3309; post, p. 3318 .
Post, p. 3319 et seq. Post, p. 3337. Post, p. 3350 et seq.
Ante, p . 3312.

Conditions of approval.
1. In order to become effective , the propositions must obtain :
(a) Unanimity of votes , if it is a question of adding new provisions or modifying the provisions of Titles I and II or of Articles 35 to 39, 57 to 63 , 65 to 74 of the Convention , of any of the Articles of its Final Protocol and of Articles 101 , 105 , 117 , 152 , 163 , and 184 of its Regulations ;
(b) Two-thirds of the votes, if it is a question of modifying provisions other than those mentioned under letter (a) ;
(c) An absolute majority, if it is a question of interpreting the provisions of the Convention , its Final Protocol or its Regulations , except in the case of disagreement to be submitted to arbitration as provided for by Article 12 .
2. The Agreements fix the conditions to which the approval of propositions concerning them is subject .
ARTICLE 24.

Notification of decisions .
1. Additions to and modifications of the Convention , the Agreements and the Final Protocols of those Acts are sanctioned by a diplomatic declaration which the Government of the Swiss Confederation is charged with preparing and transmitting, at the request of the International Bureau , to the governments of the contracting countries .
2. Additions to and modifications of the Regulations and their Final Protocols are recorded and communicated to the Administrations by the International Bureau . The same applies to the interpretations contemplated in Article 23 , Section 1 , letter (c) .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3317

ARTICLE 25.
Effective date of decisions. No addition or modification adopted is effective until at least three months after its notification .

CHAPTER IV. International Bureau.
ARTICLE 26.

General functions.
1. A central Office , operating at Berne under the name of International Bureau of the Universal Postal Union, and placed under the supervision of the Swiss Postal Administration, serves as an organ of liaison, information and consultation for the countries of the Union .
2. That Bureau is charged , in particular, with assembling, coordinating, publishing and distributing information of all kinds concerning the international postal service ; with giving, at the request of the interested parties, an opinion on questions in dispute ; with examining requests for modification of the Acts of the Congress ; with giving notice of the changes adopted ; and, in general , with undertaking such studies and work of editing and of documentation as the Convention, the Agreements and their Regulations may assign to it, or which may be entrusted to it in the interests of the Union .
Settlement of postal 3. It acts as a clearing-house for the settlement of accounts of all accounts. kinds relative to the international postal service , between Administrations requesting such intervention .

ARTICLE 27 .

Expenses ofthe International Bureau .

1. Each Congress fixes the maximum figure for the ordinary annual

expenses of the International Bureau . Those expenses, as well as

the extraordinary expenses arising from the meeting of a Congress ,

a Conference or a Committee, and the expenses resulting from special

work entrusted to that Bureau, are shared by all the countries of the Union.
2. The latter are divided , for that purpose, into 7 classes , each of

Proportionate contributions.

which contributes to the payment of the expenses in the following

proportion :

1st class, 25 units

2d 66 20 66

3d "" 15 "L

4th "" 10

5th

5 ""

6th

3 ""

7th "6 1 unit

New adherences. 3. In case of a new adhesion , the Government of the Swiss Con-

federation determines, by mutual agreement with the government of

the country concerned , the class in which the latter is to be placed for the apportionment of the expenses of the International Bureau.

3318

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. TITLE II.

General Regulations.

SOLE CHAPTER.

ARTICLE 28 .

Limitation. Air-mail parcels C. O. D. parcels. Insured articles.

Freedom of transit.
1. Freedom of transit is guaranteed throughout the entire territory of the Union .
2. Freedom of transit for parcel post to be sent by the land and sea routes is limited to the territory of countries participating in that service .
3. Freedom of transit for air-mail parcels is guaranteed throughout the entire territory of the Union. However, the Administrations which have not adhered to the Agreement concerning parcel post may not be obliged to participate in the transmission of air-mail parcels by the land and sea routes .
4. The Administrations which have adhered to the Agreement concerning parcel post are obliged to assure the transit of C. O. D. parcels , even if they do not accept such parcels in their service or if the amount to be collected exceeds the maximum fixed for their own traffic.¹
5. Insured articles may be sent in transit in closed mails through the territory of countries which do not provide such service , or by maritime services where responsibility for insured articles is not accepted by the countries, but the responsibility of those countries is limited to that prescribed for registered articles .

ARTICLE 29.

Prohibition against unauthorized charges.
It is forbidden to collect postal charges of any kind whatever other than those prescribed by the Convention and Agreements.

ARTICLE 30.
Temporary suspension of services.
When, as a result of exceptional circumstances , an Administration finds itself obliged to suspend the execution of services temporarily, in whole or in part, it is bound to give notice thereof immediately, by telegraph if necessary, to the Administration or Administrations concerned .
ARTICLE 31 .

Monetary standard.
The franc used as the monetary unit in the provisions of the Convention and Agreements is the gold franc of 100 centimes weighing 10/31 of a gram and having a fineness of 0.900 .
1 Transfer of § 7 of Article 29 of the Buenos Aires Agreement concerning Parcel Post.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3319

ARTICLE 32.

Equivalents. In each country of the Union , the postage rates are fixed according to equivalents corresponding as exactly as possible to the value of the franc in the money of that country.
ARTICLE 33.

Forms. Language.
1. The forms used by the Administrations in their reciprocal relations shall be drawn up in the French language, with or without an interlinear translation in another language , unless the Administrations concerned arrange otherwise by direct agreement .
2. The forms used by the public shall include an interlinear translation in the French language when they are not printed in that language.
3. The texts , colors and dimensions of the forms mentioned in Sections 1 and 2 shall be those prescribed by the Regulations of the Convention and of the Agreements .
4. Administrations may agree as to the language to be employed for official correspondence in their reciprocal relations .
ARTICLE 34.

Postal identity cards.

Issuance. 1. Any Administration may issue, to persons who apply for them,

postal identity cards valid as proof of identity for all post- office

business in the countries which have not given notice of their refusal to admit them.
2. The Administration issuing a card is authorized to collect a

Charge.

charge therefor not exceeding 70 centimes. 3. Administrations are released from all responsibility when it is
proved that a mail article was delivered or a money order paid upon

Releasefrom responsibility.

presentation of a valid card . Neither are they responsible for the

consequences of loss, theft or fraudulent use of a valid card .

4. The card is valid for three years from the date of issue.

Validity.

TITLE III .

Provisions Concerning Postal Correspondence. CHAPTER I.
General Provisions . ARTICLE 35.
Articles of correspondence. The term articles of correspondence applies to letters , single and replypaid post cards, commercial papers , prints, raised print for the blind, samples of merchandise, small packets, and Phonopost articles.

3320

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
ARTICLE 36.
Postage rates and general conditions. 1. The postage rates for the transportation of articles of correspondence throughout the entire extent of the Union , including their delivery at the residence of the addressees in countries where the delivery service is or may be established , and the limits of weight and dimensions , are fixed in accordance with the following table:

Articles 1

Units of Rates weight

2

3

Weight 4

Limits of-
Dimensions 5

Letters : First unit of weight .. Each additional unit_

g

20

2 kg-

12

Post cards :

22242

Single ...

12

With reply paid__.

0226 20

Length, breadth , and thickness combined, 90 cm .; but greatest length, 60 cm.; in rolls : length and twice the diameter, 100 cm.; but greatest length, 80 cm .
Maximum 15 by 10.5 cm; minimum 10 by 7 cm.

Commercial papers ---First unit of weight ... Each additional unit_ Minimum charge ..
Prints ---

50

2 kg-.

8

4

20

50

3 kg. (5

kg. for

single vol

First unit of weight .. Each additional unit ..

Raised print for the blind .- 1 , 000

Samples of merchandise .

50

First unit of weight --Each additional unit .

Small packets--

50

Minimum charge ...

+

umes) 8 4 2 7 kg-
500 g8 4 8 1 kg40

As for letters . Prints sent open in the
form of folded or unfolded cards are subject to the same minimum limits as post cards.

Phonopost articles :
First unit of weight .. Each additional unit .

15

20

60 g.

10

Length, breadth, and thickness combined , 60 cm.; but the greatest dimension may not exceed 26 cm.

2. The limits of weight and dimensions fixed by Section 1 do not

Post, p. 3326.
Newspapers and periodicals .

apply to the correspondence relative to the postal service mentioned in Article 52 , Section 1 , hereafter.
3. Each Administration has the option of granting to newspapers and periodicals published in its country a reduction of 50 per cent in

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5 , 1947

3321

the general rate for prints, while reserving the right to limit that

reduction to newspapers and periodicals sent directly by the publish-

ers or their representatives, or to grant it only to newspapers and

periodicals which comply with the conditions imposed by the domestic regulations for acceptance at the newspaper rate . There are excluded

Catalogs, etc.

from the reduction , regardless of the regularity of their publication ,

commercial prints such as catalogs , prospectuses , price lists, etc.

4. Administrations may also grant the same reduction , irrespective

Books, sheet-music, etc.

of the senders, to books and pamphlets , sheet-music and maps which

do not contain any publicity or advertising other than that appearing on the covers or fly-leaves of these articles .

5. The Administrations of origin which have accepted in principle

the reduction of 50 percent , reserve the right to fix, for the articles

contemplated in Sections 3 and 4 above , a minimum charge which,

while remaining within the limits of the reduction of 50 percent, is

not lower than the charge applicable to the same articles in their domestic service .
6. Articles other than registered letters in sealed envelopes may not

Restriction on enclosures.

contain coins , banknotes, paper money or any instruments of value

payable to the bearer ; manufactured or unmanufactured platinum ,
gold or silver ; precious stones, jewelry, or other precious articles. 7. The Administrations of the countries of origin and destination thEanncaldodsruersessefeo.r other

have the option of treating , in accordance with their domestic legis-

lation, letters which contain documents having the character of

actual personal correspondence addressed to persons other than the addressee or persons residing with the latter.
8. With the exceptions provided for in the Regulations, commercial

Commercial papers, etc.

papers, prints , prints for the use of the blind , samples of merchandise, and small packets shall :

(a) be made up in such a way as to be able to be easily inspected ;

(b) not bear any notation or contain any document having the character of actual personal correspondence ;

(c) not contain any postage stamp or form of prepayment, can-

celed or uncanceled , or any paper representing a value .

9. Samples of merchandise may not contain any article having a salable value.
10. The services of small packets and of Phonopost articles are

Samples of merchamp
Phonopost service limitation

limited to the countries which have agreed to exchange such articles ,

either in their reciprocal relations or in one direction only. 11. The inclusion in a single package of articles of correspondence of

Grouped articles.

different classes (grouped articles) is authorized under the conditions

fixed by the Regulations . 12. With the exceptions provided for by the Convention and its
Regulations, articles which do not fulfill the conditions prescribed

Articles not dispatched .

by the present Article and the corresponding Articles of the Regulations Wrongly accepted
are not dispatched . Articles which have been wrongly accepted shall articles.

be returned to the country of origin . However, the Administration of destination is authorized to deliver them to the addressees . In

3322

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

such a case, it applies to them, if need be, the rates and surcharges prescribed for the class of correspondence in which they have to be placed because of their contents , weight or dimensions. As for weAirgthitclliemsitesx. ceeding articles exceeding the maximum weight-limits fixed by Section 1 , they may be rated in accordance with their actual weight.
ARTICLE 37.

Ante, p. 3319.

Prepayment.
1. As a general rule, all the articles designated in Article 35 must be fully prepaid by the sender .
2. Articles other than letters and single post cards which are unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid , or reply post cards both halves of which are not fully prepaid at the time of mailing, are not dispatched .
3. When a large number of letters or single post cards is mailed unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid , the Administration of the country of origin has the option of returning them to the sender .
ARTICLE 38.

Post, p. 3329. Post, p. 3367.

Charge on unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid correspondence. 1. With the exceptions provided for by Article 57 , Section 6, for registered articles , and by Article 136 , Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Regulations for certain classes of redirected articles , letters and single post cards not prepaid or insufficiently prepaid are liable to a charge equal to double the amount of the missing postage, to be paid by the addressee ; but that charge may not be lower than 5 centimes. 2. The same treatment may be applied , in the cases above contemplated , to other articles of correspondence which have been improperly dispatched to the country of destination .
ARTICLE 39.
Surcharges .
1. There may be collected , in addition to the rates fixed by Article 36 , for every article transported by extraordinary services involving special expenses , a surcharge proportionate to those expenses .
2. When the rate of prepayment of the single post card includes the surcharge authorized by Section 1 , the same rate is applicable to each half of the reply-paid post card .

ARTICLE 40.

Special charges.
1. The Administrations are authorized to charge an additional fee in accordance with the provisions of their own legislation for articles posted in their services for dispatch after the mails have closed .
2. Articles addressed to general delivery may be subjected by the Administrations of the countries of destination to such special charge as may be prescribed by their legislation for articles of the same kind in the domestic service.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3323

3. The Administrations of the countries of destination are authorized to collect a special charge of 40 centimes at most for each small packet delivered to the addressee . That charge may be increased by 20 centimes at most in case of delivery at the addressee's residence .

ARTICLE 41.

Dutiable articles.

1. Small packets and prints liable to customs duty are accepted . 2. The same applies to letters and samples of merchandise containing dutiable articles when the country of destination has given its consent. However, each Administration has the right to limit the service of letters containing dutiable articles to registered letters. 3. Shipments of serums and vaccines, benefiting by the exception stipulated by Article 124 of the Regulations, are accepted in all cases .

Post, p. 3362.

ARTICLE 42 .

Customs inspection .
The Administration of the country of destination is authorized to submit the articles mentioned in Article 41 to customs inspection and, if necessary, to open them without further formality.

ARTICLE 43.

Customs-clearance fee. Articles submitted to customs inspection in the country of destination may be charged on that account, by the postal service , with a customs-clearance fee of 40 centimes at most per article.
ARTICLE 44 .

Customs duties and other non-postal charges. The Administrations are authorized to collect from the addressees of mail articles the customs duties and all other non-postal charges which may be due .
ARTICLE 45 .

Articles free of charges. 1. In relations between countries which have come to an agreement to that effect, senders may, by means of a previous declaration at the office of mailing, assume payment of all the postal and non-postal charges with which the articles are assessed on delivery . In such a case, senders must promise to pay such amounts as may be claimed by the office of destination , and, if need be, post a sufficient deposit. 2. The Administration of destination is authorized to collect a
commission fee which may not exceed 40 centimes per article . This fee is independent of the one provided for by Article 43 .
3. Any Administration has the right to limit this prepayment service to registered articles .
68706-52 - PT. III- 46

3324

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 46 .

Cancellation of customs duty and other non-postal charges. The Administrations undertake to make representations to the services which are concerned of their countries with a view to having the customs duties and other non-postal charges annulled on articles returned to the country of origin, destroyed because of complete deterioration of the contents , or forwarded to a third country.
ARTICLE 47.

Special-delivery articles.

1. Articles of correspondence are, at the request of the senders , delivered to the addressees by special messenger immediately after

their arrival, in countries whose Administrations agree to undertake
that service . Fee.
2. Such articles , known as special- delivery articles , are liable, in
addition to the regular postage , to a special fee amounting at least to

the postage on an ordinary single-rate letter , and at most to 60

Special messenger fee.

centimes . This fee must be fully prepaid . 3. When the addressee's residence is situated outside the local de-
livery zone of the office of destination , delivery by special messenger

may give rise to the collection of a supplementary charge by the Administration of destination , not exceeding that collected in the domestic service for articles of the same kind . However, special

delivery is not obligatory in such cases .

Unprepaid articles.

4. Special-delivery articles upon which the total amount of the

charges payable in advance has not been prepaid are delivered by the

Ante, p. 3322.
Unsuccessful deliv ery attempts.

ordinary means, unless they have been treated as special-delivery articles by the office of origin. In the latter case, the articles are rated in accordance with the provisions of Article 38.
5. It is permissible for Administrations to make only one attempt to deliver by special messenger . If such attempt is unsuccessful, the article may be treated as an ordinary article.

ARTICLE 48.

Articles to be delivered to the addressee only. In relations with Administrations which have given their consent, registered articles of correspondence accompanied by a return receipt are delivered , at the sender's request, to the addressee only.
ARTICLE 49.
Prohibitions .
1. The sending of the articles mentioned in Column 1 of the table below is prohibited . When mail articles containing them have been wrongly accepted for mailing , they shall undergo the treatment indicated in Column 2 .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3325

Articles 1

Treatment of articles wrongly accepted 2

(a) Articles which, by their nature or packing, may expose postal employees to danger, or soil or damage the mails ;
(b) Articles liable to customs duty (with the exceptions provided for by Article 41) , as well as samples sent in quantities for the purpose of avoiding the collection of such duty;
(c) Opium, morphine, cocaine, and other narcotics ;
(d) Articles whose acceptance or circulation is prohibited in the country of destination ;
(e) Live animals, with the exception of: 1° Bees, leeches and silkworms ; 2° Parasites and predators of injurious insects intended for the control of such insects and exchanged between officially recognized agencies;
(f) Explosive, inflammable or dangerous substances ;
(g) Obscene or immoral articles.

To be treated in accordance with the domestic regulations of the Administration which discovers their presence; however, the articles mentioned under (c) are in no case either forwarded to destination, delivered to the addressees or returned to origin ;
To be destroyed on the spot by the Administration which discovers their presence.

Ante, p. 3323.

Notification of dis2. In cases where articles wrongly accepted for mailing are neither posal.

returned to origin nor delivered to the addressee , the dispatching Ad-

ministration shall be notified , in a precise manner, of the disposal

made of such articles. 3. Moreover, the right is reserved for any country not to convey

Reservation .

in transit in open mail over its territory articles other than letters

and post cards in regard to which the legal provisions regulating the

conditions of their publication or circulation in that country have not been observed . Such articles shall be returned to the country of

origin .

ARTICLE 50.

Methods of prepayment.

1. Prepayment of postage is effected either by means of postage

stamps valid in the country of origin for the correspondence of private

individuals, or by means of impressions of stamping machines officially adopted and operating under the immediate control of the Adminis-

tration ; or, in the case of prints, by means of impressions , printed or

otherwise obtained , when such a system of indicia is authorized by the

domestic regulations of the Administration of origin. 2. The following are considered as duly prepaid : Reply post cards
bearing printed or adhesive postage stamps of the country of issue of

Items considered prepaid .

such cards ; articles regularly prepaid for their first transmission on

which the additional postage has been paid before their redirection ; as well as newspapers or packages of newspapers and periodicals whose

3326

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

address bears the words Abonnements-poste (Subscription by mail) which are sent under the Agreement concerning subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals.
ARTICLE 51 .

Prepayment of correspondence on board ships .
Correspondence mailed on the high seas , in the box on board a vessel, or handed to postal agents on board or to the commanders of vessels , may be prepaid, barring contrary agreement between the Administrations concerned , by means of the postage stamps and according to the postage rates of the country to which the said vessel belongs or by which it is maintained . If the mailing on board takes place during the stay at one of the two terminal points of the voyage or at one of the intermediate ports of call, the prepayment is valid only if it is effected by means of the postage stamps and according to the postage rates of the country in whose waters the vessel happens to be.
ARTICLE 52.

Franking privilege .

1. Correspondence relating to the postal service exchanged between Postal Administrations, between those Administrations and the Inter-

national Bureau, between post offices of countries of the Union, and

between those offices and the Administrations , as well as that for

which the franking privilege is expressly provided by the provisions

of the Convention , the Agreements and their Regulations, is exempt

from all postal charges .

Prisoners of - war mail articles,

2. Except when they bear C. O. D. charges, mail articles addressed

to prisoners of war or mailed by them are likewise exempt from all

postal charges , not only in the countries of origin and destination but

also in the intermediary countries .

3. The same is true of correspondence concerning prisoners of war,

sent or received either directly or as intermediary by the Central

47 Stat. 2058.

Information Office for Prisoners of War, as provided for in Article 79 of the International Convention of Geneva of July 27 , 1929 , or by

information offices which may be established for the benefit of such persons in belligerent countries or in neutral countries which have

received belligerents in their territory.

4. Belligerents received and interned in a neutral country, as well

as civilians of enemy nationality detained in civilian camps or prisons,

are assimilated to prisoners of war properly so called , insofar as the application of the provisions mentioned above is concerned.

ARTICLE 53. International reply coupons.

1. International reply coupons are placed on sale in the countries of the Union .
2. Their selling-price is determined by the Administrations concerned, but may not be less than 28 centimes or the equivalent in money of the country selling them.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3327

3. Each coupon is exchangeable in any country for a stamp or stamps representing the postage on a single-rate ordinary letter originating in that country and addressed to a foreign country.
4. Moreover, the right is reserved for any country to require that the coupons and the articles of correspondence for the prepayment of which they are to be exchanged be presented at the same time.
ARTICLE 54.

Withdrawal. Change of address. 1. The sender of an article of correspondence may cause it to be withdrawn from the mails or have its address changed, provided that such article has not been delivered to the addressee, that it does not come within the scope of the provisions contained in Article 49 , or that the customs examination does not reveal any irregularity. 2. The request to be made to that effect is transmitted by mail or by telegraph at the expense of the sender , who shall pay for each request a fee of 40 centimes at the most. If the request has to be transmitted by air mail or by telegraph, the sender shall pay, in addition , the air mail surcharge or telegraph charges . 3. For each request for withdrawal or change of address relating to several articles mailed simultaneously at the same office by the same sender to the same addressee , only one fee or surcharge as mentioned in Section 2 shall be collected .
4. A simple correction of address (without changing the name or the title of the addressee) may be requested of the office of destination directly by the sender , that is , without complying with the formalities and paying the charges mentioned in Sections 2 and 3.¹

Ante, p. 3324. Charge.

ARTICLE 55.

Forwarding. Undelivered correspondence.
1. In case of change of residence by the addressee, articles of correspondence are forwarded to him, unless the sender has forbidden the forwarding by a notation placed on the address side in a language known in the country of destination.
2. Correspondence which is undeliverable shall be returned immediately to the country of origin.
3. The period of retention for correspondence held at the disposal of the addressees or addressed to general delivery is fixed by the regulations of the country of destination. However, such period may not exceed one month as a general rule, except in particular cases where the Administration of destination deems it necessary to extend it to two months at most. The return to the country of origin must take place within a shorter period , if the sender has so requested by a notation placed on the address side in a language known in the country of destination.

1 Transfer of the provision of Article 151 of the Regulations of Execution of the Buenos Aires Convention, 1939.

3328

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

4. Prints without value are not returned , unless the sender has requested their return by a notation placed on the article in a language known in the country of destination. Registered prints shall always be returned .
5. The forwarding of articles of correspondence from country to country, or their return to the country of origin, does not give rise to the collection of any additional charge, apart from the exceptions provided for by the Regulations.
6. Forwarded or returned articles of correspondence are delivered to the addressees or senders upon payment of the charges due on them on departure, on arrival or in the course of transmission , as a result of redirection after the first transmission, without prejudice to the repayment of the customs duties or other special charges which the country of destination does not agree to cancel .
7. In case of forwarding to another country, or of non-delivery, the general-delivery fee, the customs-clearance fee , the commission fee, the additional special-delivery fee, and the special fee for the delivery of small packets to the addressees , are canceled .
ARTICLE 56.

Inquiries and requests for information.
Fee. 1. An inquiry or request for information as to the disposal made of
any article may give rise to the collection of a fee of 40 centimes at

most. When, at the request of the party concerned , an inquiry or request for information must be sent by air mail, this fee plus the air mail surcharge, or double this surcharge if the reply is to be returned in the same manner, must be collected . In the event that telegraph service is requested , the telegraph charge is collected in addition to the prescribed fee .

2. For each inquiry or request for information relating to several articles mailed simultaneously at the same office by the same sender to

the same addressee, only one charge or surcharge as mentioned in Section 1 shall be collected .

3. As for registered articles, no fee is collected if the sender has

Time limit.

already paid the special fee for a return receipt. 4. Inquiries are accepted only within the period of one year, count-
ing from the day following the date of mailing of the article. However,

every Administration is bound to comply with simple requests for information presented after that period which it receives from another Administration regarding articles mailed less than two years

Acceptance of inquiries, etc.
Return of fee.

previously. 5. Every Administration is obliged to accept inquiries and requests
for information concerning articles mailed in the territory of other Administrations.
6. When an inquiry or a request for information has been made necessary through a fault of the service, the fee collected therefor is returned.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947 CHAPTER II.

3329

Registered Articles. ARTICLE 57.

Charges .
1. The articles of correspondence designated in Article 35 may be sent under registration .
2. The postage on all registered articles must be paid in advance. It consists of:

Ante, p. 3319.

(a) The ordinary postage on the article, according to its class ; (b) A fixed registration fee of 40 centimes at most.

3. The fixed registration fee applicable to the reply half of a post card cannot be legally paid by anyone but the sender of that half.
4. A receipt shall be delivered without charge to the sender of a registered article at the time of mailing.
5. Countries disposed to assume risks arising from force majeure (causes beyond control) are authorized to collect a special charge of 40 centimes at most for each registered article.
6. Unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid registered articles which have been wrongly sent to the country of destination are liable , at the expense of the addressees, to a charge equal to the amount of the missing postage.
ARTICLE 58.

Receipt. Missing postage,

Return receipts.

1. The sender of a registered article may request a return receipt by paying, at the time of mailing, a fixed charge of 30 centimes at most
2. The return receipt may be requested after the mailing of the article, within the period of one year and upon payment of the charge prescribed by Article 56 for inquiries.

ARTICLE 59 .

Extent of responsibility.
1. With the exceptions provided for by Article 60 following, Administrations are responsible for the loss of registered articles.
2. The sender is entitled , on that account, to indemnity, the amount of which is fixed at 25 francs per article .
3. Administrations assume no responsibility for articles seized by the customs .
ARTICLE 60.

Exceptions to the principle of responsibility. Administrations are released from all responsibility for loss of registered articles :
(a) In case of force majeure; however, responsibility is maintained with regard to an Administration of origin which has under-

3330

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Ante, p. 3329.
Ante, pp. 3321, 3324. Ante, p. 3328.

taken to cover risks of force majeure (Article 57 , Section 5) . The country responsible for the loss must decide, in accordance with its domestic legislation , whether such loss is due to circumstances constituting a case of force majeure ; these circumstances shall be brought to the attention of the country of origin, for its information ;
(b) When, proof of their responsibility not having been furnished otherwise, they cannot account for articles as a result of destruction of service records due to a case of force majeure;
(c) When it is a question of articles whose contents fall within the scope of the prohibitions laid down by Articles 36 , Sections 6 and 8 , letter (c ) , and 49 , Section 1 ;
(d) When the sender has not made any inquiry within the period of one year contemplated by Article 56 .

ARTICLE 61 .

Termination of responsibility. Administrations cease to be responsible for registered articles the delivery of which they have effected under the conditions prescribed by their domestic regulations for articles of the same nature.
ARTICLE 62.

Fixing of responsibility .

1. Until the contrary is proved , responsibility for the loss of a

registered article falls on the Administration which, having received

the article without making any observations, and , being furnished all

particulars of inquiry prescribed by the regulations, cannot establish

either delivery to the addressee or regular transmission to the next

Release from responsibility.

Administration , as the case may be. 2. An intermediary Administration or one of destination is, until
the contrary is proved , released from all responsibility :

Post, p. 3378.

(a) When it has observed the provisions of Article 150 , Section 4 , of the Regulations ;

(b) When it can establish that it did not receive the inquiry until

after the destruction of the service records relating to the

Post, p. 3392.

article sought, the retention-period prescribed by Article 169 of the Regulations having expired ; this reservation does not

prejudice the rights of the claimant .

Undeterminable responsibility .

3. However, if the loss has taken place in the course of transmission,

without its being possible to determine the country in whose territory

or service the loss occurred , the Administrations concerned bear the

Loss majeure.

by force

loss in equal shares. 4. When a registered article has been lost under circumstances of
force majeure, the Administration in whose territory or in whose

service the loss took place is not responsible therefor to the Adminis-

tration of origin unless both countries undertake risks arising from

cases offorce majeure .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3331

Customs duties, etc. 5. The customs duties and other charges whose cancellation it has

been impossible to obtain are charged to the Administrations responsible for the loss.
6. The Administration which has effected payment of the indemnity

Subrogation.

is subrogated in the rights of the person who has received it up to the amount thereof, for eventual recourse against the addressee , the

sender, or third parties. 7. In case of subsequent recovery of a registered article considered
as lost, or part of such article, the sender and the addressee shall be informed to that effect .

Recovery of lost article.

8. In addition, the sender shall be informed that he may obtain possession of the article within a period of three months upon repay-

ment of the amount of the indemnity received . If, during such period, the sender does not claim the article , the addressee shall be

advised that he may obtain possession of it within a similar period by paying the amount awarded to the sender.

9. If the sender or the addressee obtains possession of the article

by repaying the amount of the indemnity , this amount shall be refunded to the Administration or Administrations which paid for the loss.

10. If the sender and the addressee waive delivery of the article , the latter is considered as undeliverable.

ARTICLE 63.

Payment of indemnity. The obligation of paying indemnity falls upon the Administration to which the mailing office of the article belongs, subject to its right to file a claim against the responsible Administration .
ARTICLE 64 .

Period for payment of indemnity.
1. Payment of indemnity must take place as soon as possible, and at the latest within the period of six months, counting from the day following the date of the inquiry . That period is extended to nine months in relations with distant countries .
2. The Administration of mailing of the article which does not accept risks arising from force majeure may postpone settlement for the indemnity beyond the period prescribed by Section 1 when the question of knowing whether the loss of the article was due to a case of that kind has not yet been settled .
3. The Administration of origin is authorized to settle with the sender on behalf of an intermediate Administration or one of destina-
tion which, duly notified , has let pass three months or six months in relations with distant countries, without settling the matter . A
longer period is granted if the loss appears due to a case of force majeure; in any event, such fact must be brought to the attention of the Administration of origin.

Postponement.

3332

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

ARTICLE 65 .

Repayment of the indemnity to the Administration of origin.

1. The Administration which is responsible, or on whose behalf payment is made in accordance with Article 64 , is bound to reimburse

the Administration of origin, within a period of six months, counted from the sending of the notification of payment, for the amount of indemnity actually paid to the sender . This period is extended to nine months in relations with distant countries.

2. If the indemnity must be paid by several Administrations in

conformity with article 62 , the entire indemnity due must be turned

over to the Administration of origin, within the period mentioned in

Section 1 , by the first Administration which , having duly received the

article inquired about cannot establish its regular transmission to the

corresponding service . It is incumbent upon that Administration to

recover from the other responsible Administrations whatever contri-

bution is due from them individually toward the indemnity paid to

the rightful claimant.

Method of reimbursement.

3. The reimbursement of the creditor Administration is effected

without expense for that Administration by means of either a money

order , a check or a draft payable at sight on the capital or a commercial city of the creditor country , or in coin current in that country.
4. When responsibility has been acknowledged , as well as in the case contemplated by Article 64 , Section 3 , the amount of indemnity

may likewise be recovered from the responsible country officially through any account, either directly or through the intermediary of an Administration which regularly exchanges accounts with the responsible Administration .

5. At the expiration of the period of six months , the sum due to the Administration of origin bears interest at the rate of 5 per cent a year,

Time limit.

counting from the date of expiration of the said period . This period is extended to nine months in relations with distant countries.
6. The Administration of origin may claim repayment of the in-

demnity from the responsible Administration only within the period of one year, counting from the date of sending the notification of the loss,

or, if occasion arises , from the date of expiration of the period con-

templated by Article 64 , Section 3.

Delay in payment; penalty.

7. An Administration whose responsibility is duly established and

which has at first declined to pay the indemnity must bear all the

additional expenses resulting from the unjustified delay in making

payment .

Periodical settlements.

8. Administrations may agree among themselves to make periodical

settlements of the indemnities which they have paid to the senders and

the justness of which they have recognized .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947 CHAPTER III.

Allocation of Postage. Transit Charges. ARTICLE 66 .
Allocation of postage. Except in cases expressly provided for by the Convention , each Administration retains all of the postage which it collects .
ARTICLE 67. Transit charges. 1. Articles of correspondence exchanged in closed mails between two Administrations, by means of the services of one or more other Administrations (third services) , are liable, for the benefit of each of the countries traversed or whose services participate in the conveyance, to the transit charges indicated in the following table :

1° Territorial transit : Up to 1,000 km ... . From 1,000 to 2,000 km ... From 2,000 to 3,000 km . From 3,000 to 6,000 kmFrom 6,000 to 9,000 km . Over 9,000 km.
2º Maritime transit:
Up to 300 nautical miles____ . From 300 to 1,500 nautical miles . -Between Europe and North America___ From 1,500 to 6,000 nautical miles ...-Over 6,000 nautical miles ..

Per kilogram

of letters and post
cards

of other articles

Fr. c. 0.60 0.80 1. 20 2.00 2.80 3. 60

Fr. c. 0. 08 0.12 0. 16 0. 24 0.32 0.40

0.60 1.60 2. 40 3. 20 4. 80

0.08 0. 20 0.32 0.40 0. 60

2. The transit charges for maritime conveyance on a route not exceeding 300 nautical miles are fixed at one-third the amounts set forth in Section 1 , if the Administration concerned already receives, on account of the mails transported, compensation for territorial transit.
3. In the case of maritime transit effected by two or more Administrations, the total maritime transit charges may not exceed 4 francs 80 centimes per kilogram of letters and post cards or 60 centimes per kilogram of other articles . When occasion arises, those maximum amounts are divided between the Administrations taking part in the transportation in proportion to the distances traversed .
4. Barring contrary agreement , maritime transportation effected directly between two countries by means of ships of one of them, as well

3333

3334

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

as conveyance effected between two offices of one and the same country through the intermediary of services of another country, is considered as a third service.
5. Small packets , newspapers or packages of newspapers and periodicals sent by virtue of the Agreement concerning subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, as well as insured boxes sent by virtue of the Agreement concerning insured letters and boxes , are considered as other articles in regard to transit .
6. Missent dispatches are considered , in regard to the payment of transit charges , as if they had followed their normal route .

ARTICLE 68.

Ante, p. 3326.

Exemption from transit charges.
The following are exempt from all territorial or maritime transit charges: The correspondence sent free of postage mentioned in Article 52 ; reply post cards returned to the country of origin ; redirected articles ; returned undeliverable articles ; return receipts ; money orders ; and all other documents relating to the postal service , particularly correspondence relative to postal checks.
ARTICLE 69.

Ante, p. 3312.

Extraordinary services .
The transit charges specified in Article 67 do not apply to transportation by means of extraordinary services specially created or maintained by one Administration at the request of one or more other Administrations. The conditions for that class of conveyance are fixed by mutual agreement between the Administrations concerned .
ARTICLE 70.
Payments and accounts . 1. The cost of transit is borne by the Administration of the country of origin. 2. The general accounting for such charges is effected on the basis of statistics taken once every three years, during a period of fourteen days. That period is extended to twenty-eight days for dispatches exchanged less than six times a week through the services of any country. The Regulations fix the period and the duration of the application of the statistics. 3. When the annual balance between two Administrations does not exceed 25 francs, the debtor Administration is exempted from any payment . 4. Any Administration is authorized to submit to a board of arbitrators for consideration the results of statistics which, in its opinion, differ too greatly from reality. Such arbitration is effected in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 .
5. The arbitrators are authorized to determine the proper amount of transit charges to be paid.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3335

ARTICLE 71.

Exchange of closed mails with warships.
1. Closed mails may be exchanged between the post offices of any one of the contracting countries and the commanding officers of naval divisions or warships of the same country stationed abroad , or between the commanding officer of one of those naval divisions or warships and the commanding officer of another division or ship of the same country, through the intermediary of land or sea services of other countries .
2. Correspondence of all kinds comprised in such dispatches shall be exclusively addressed to or sent by the officers and crews of the ships of destination or origin of the mails ; the rates and conditions of dispatch applicable to them are determined , according to its domestic regulations , by the Postal Administration of the country to which the ships belong.
3. Barring contrary agreement, the Administration of the country to which the warships belong is indebted to the intermediary Administrations for the transit charges of the dispatches calculated in accordance with the provisions of Article 67.
Miscellaneous Provisions .

Ante, p. 3333.

ARTICLE 72 .

Failure to observe freedom of transit.
When a country does not observe the provisions of Article 28 concerning freedom of transit, Administrations have the right to discontinue postal service with that country. They must give advance notice of that measure by telegraph to the Administrations concerned .

Ante, p. 3318.

ARTICLE 73.

Obligations relative to penal measures.

The contracting countries undertake to adopt , or to propose to their respective legislative bodies, the necessary measures :
(a) To punish the counterfeiting of postage stamps , even if withdrawn from circulation , international reply coupons , and postal identity cards ;

Counterfeiting of postage stamps, etc.

(b) To punish the use or placing in circulation of

(1) counterfeit postage stamps (even if withdrawn from circulation) or used stamps, as well as counterfeit or used

impressions of stamping machines or of printing presses ;

(2) counterfeit international reply coupons ;

(3) counterfeit postal identity cards ; (c) To punish the fraudulent use of regular postal identity cards ; (d) To prohibit and suppress all fraudulent operations of manu-
facture and placing in circulation of embossed or adhesive

Postal identity cards.
Embossed or adhesive stamps.

stamps in use in the postal service , which are counterfeited or

3336

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Narcotics, inflammable substances, etc.

imitated in such a way that they could be confused with embossed or adhesive stamps issued by one of the contracting countries ;

(e) To prevent , and , if occasion arises, to punish the insertion of

opium , morphine, cocaine or other narcotics , as well as explosive

or easily inflammable substances in mail articles in which such

insertion is not expressly authorized by the Convention and

Agreements .

Final Provisions.

ARTICLE 74.

Effective date and duration of the Convention.
The present Convention will become effective on July 1 , 1948 , and will remain in force for an indefinite period .
In testimony whereof, the plenipotentiaries of the Governments of the countries above enumerated have signed the present Convention in one copy, which will be filed in the Archives of the Government of the French Republic, and a copy of which will be delivered to each party .
Done at Paris , July 5 , 1947 . [ For signatures, see French text, p . 3188 ; for romanization , see p . 3416. ]

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3337

FINAL PROTOCOL OF THE CONVENTION

At the moment of proceeding to sign the Universal Postal Convention concluded on the present date, the undersigned plenipotentiaries have agreed as follows:
I.

Withdrawal. Change of address.

The provisions of Article 54 do not apply to Great Britain , nor to those British Dominions, Colonies and Protectorates whose domestic legislation does not permit the withdrawal or change of address of

Provisions not applicable to Great
Britain, etc. Ante, p. 3327.

correspondence at the request of the sender.

II.

Equivalents. Maximum and minimum limits.

1. Each country has the option of increasing by 40 percent, or of decreasing by 20 percent, at most, the postage rates fixed by Article 36, Section 1 , in accordance with the indications of the following table:

Ante, p. 3320.

Letters First unit.. Each additional unit..
Post cards Single_---With reply paid ....... First unit ...
Commercial papers Each additional unit . Minimum charge ...... .
Raised print for the blind, each 1,000 grams . Printed matter First unit...
Each additional unit ..
First unit... Samples of merchandise Each additional unit .
Small packets, each 50 grams.... Minimum charge ---
First unit.. "Phonopost" articles Each additional unit..

Minimum Maximum

limits

limits

Centimes Centimes

228

16 9.6 9. 6 19. 2 6. 4 3. 2 16 1. 6 6. 4 3. 2 6. 4 3. 2 6. 4

28 16. 8 16. 8 33. 6 11. 2 5. 6 28 2.8 11. 2 5. 6 11. 2 5. 6 11. 2 56 21 14

2. The rates chosen shall, as far as possible, be in the same propor- ofProportion. basis

tion among themselves as the basic rates, each Administration having the option of rounding off its rates higher or lower as the case may be, in order to suit the convenience of its monetary system.
3. The rates adopted by a country are applicable to the charges to be collected upon arrival as a result of absence or insufficiency of prepayment .

Unpaid or insuffi. cient postage.

3338

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

III.

Ante, p. 3320.

Exception to the application of the rates for commercial papers, prints and samples of merchandise.
As an exception to the provisions of Article 36 , the countries have the right not to apply the rate fixed for the first unit of weight to commercial papers , prints, and samples and to preserve the rate of 4 centimes for this unit, with a minimum of 8 centimes for samples of merchandise.
IV .
Avoirdupois ounce.
It is agreed, as an exceptional measure , that countries which, on account of their domestic legislation , cannot adopt the decimal metric system of weights, have the option of substituting therefor the avoirdupois ounce (28.3465 grams) , assimilating one ounce to 20 grams for letters and Phonopost articles, and 2 ounces to 50 grams for commercial papers , prints, raised print for the use of the blind, samples and small packets.
V.

Mailing of correspondence in another country.

No country is bound to forward or deliver to addressees articles

which any senders domiciled on its territory mail or cause to be mailed

in a foreign country with a view to profiting by lower rates which are

established there . The rule applies , without distinction , either to arti-

cles prepared in the country inhabited by the sender and subsequently

transported across the border, or to articles prepared in a foreign

country. The Administration concerned has the right either to return

the articles in question to origin or to charge them with its domestic

postage rates. discretion.

The methods of collecting the charges are left to its VI.

International reply coupons.

Administrations have the option of not undertaking the sale of international reply coupons or of limiting their sale.

VII.

Ante, p. 3328.

Registration fee. Countries which cannot fix at 40 centimes the registration fee contemplated by Article 56 [ '] , Section 2 , are authorized to collect a fee which may amount to as much as 50 centimes, or their domestic registration fee.
This should be 57 but is 56 in the certified copy.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3339

VIII .

Air services.

Provisions consid1. The provisions concerning the transportation of regular mails by ered part of Conven
tion, etc. air are appended to the Universal Postal Convention and are con-

sidered as forming an integral part thereof and of its Regulations . 2. However, by exception to the general provisions of the Conven-

Modifications.

tion, the modification of those provisions may be taken under consideration from time to time by a Conference comprising the repre-

sentatives of the Administrations directly concerned .

3. The Conference may be called together through the intermediary

Calling of Conference.

of the International Bureau , at the request of at least three of the Administrations .
4. All the provisions proposed by the Conference shall be submitted ,

Submission of proposals.

through the medium of the International Bureau, to the other coun-

tries of the Union, to be voted upon . The decision will be made on

a majority of the votes cast.

IX .

Exception to freedom of transit for small packets .
By exception to the provisions of Article 28, the Postal Administration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is authorized to refuse the transit of small packets over its territories, with the understanding that this restriction will apply indiscriminately to all the countries of the Union.
X.

Ante, p. 3318. U.S. S. R.

Special transit charges for the Trans-Siberian and Trans-Andean routes.

Ante, p. 3333. 1. By exception to the provisions of Article 67 , Section 1 (Table) ,

the Postal Administration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is authorized to collect transit charges for the Trans-Siberian Railway for both routes (Manchuria or Vladivostok) at the rate of 4 francs 50

Trans-Siberian Railway .

centimes per kilogram of letters and post cards and 50 centimes per

kilogram of other articles , for distances exceeding 6,000 kilometers. 2. The Administration of the Argentine Republic is authorized to
collect a charge of 30 centimes in addition to the transit charges mentioned in Article 67 , Section 1 , Figure 1 ° , of the Convention, for

Trans-Andean Railway .
Ante, p. 3333.

each kilogram of correspondence of any kind carried in transit over the

Argentine section of the Trans-Andean Railway.

XI.

Special transit conditions for Afghanistan.
By exception to the provisions of Article 67 , Section 1 , the Administration of Afghanistan is authorized temporarily, because of the special difficulties facing it as regards transportation and communication facilities, to effect the transit of closed mails and correspondence in open mail through its country under special conditions agreed to between itself and the interested Administrations .

Ante, p. 3333.

3340

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

62

8.9

XII .

Special warehousing charges at Aden .

As an exceptional measure , the Administration of Aden is author-

ized to collect a charge of 40 centimes per sack for all dispatches

warehoused at Aden , provided the said Administration does not

A

receive any territorial or maritime transit charges for such dispatches.

XIII .

Port of Lisbon.

Special charges for transshipment.
As an exceptional measure, the Portuguese Administration is authorized to collect 40 centimes per sack for all mails transshipped at the port of Lisbon .
XIV .

Protocol left open to the countries not represented.
The Protocol remains open to the countries of the Union which were not represented at the Congress , in order to permit them to adhere to the Convention and Agreements concluded there , or merely to one or another of them.
XV .

Protocol left open to the countries represented for signatures and adhesions.
The Protocol remains open to those countries whose representatives have today signed only the Convention or only a certain number of the Agreements drawn up by the Congress , for the purpose of permitting them to adhere to the other Agreements signed on this date , or to one or another of them.

XVI .
Period for notification of adhesions. The adhesions contemplated in Articles XIV and XV shall be communicated by the Governments concerned , through diplomatic channels, to the Government of the French Republic, and by the latter to the other States of the Union. The period which is allowed to the said Governments to make such notification will expire on July 1 , 1948.
XVII.

Protocol left open to countries momentarily prevented from adhering to the Convention and to the Agreements.
1. Spain, Morocco (Spanish Zone) , and the Whole of the Spanish Colonies , momentarily prevented from adhering to the Convention and to the Agreements, due to a decision of the XII Universal Postal Congress adopted in conformity with the Resolution passed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 12 , 1946 ,['] may
1 United Nations. Resolutions adopted by the General Assembly during the Second Part of its First Session from 23 October to 15 December 1946, pp . 63 , 64. Lake Success, 1947.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3341

adhere to these Acts, without submitting to the formalities prescribed in Article 3 , as soon as that Resolution shall be repealed or become inoperative.
2. Germany, Japan, and Korea, momentarily prevented from adhering to the Convention and the Agreements, may adhere to these Acts, without submitting to the formalities prescribed in Article 3, when the responsible authorities consider it opportune.
3. The adhesions contemplated in Sections 1 and 2 must be made known, through diplomatic channels, by the interested Governments to the Government of the French Republic and by the latter to the other States of the Union .

Ante, p. 3309. Adherences .

Force and validity In testimony whereof, the undersigned plenipotentiaries have drawn ofProtocol.
up the present Protocol , which will have the same force and validity as if its provisions were included in the text of the Convention itself, and they have signed it in one copy, which will be filed in the Archives
of the Government of the French Republic , and a copy of which will be delivered to each party.

Done at Paris, July 5, 1947 .

Signatures [For signatures, see French text, p . 3188 ; for romanization , see p . 3416. ]

DECLARATION MADE AT THE MOMENT OF SIGNING, AS PRESCRIBED BY ARTICLE 9 OF THE CONVENTION CONCERNING THE APPLICATION OF THE SAID CONVENTION TO COLONIES, PROTECTORATES, ETC.

Ante, p. 3311.

The delegation of the Union of South Africa declares that the acceptance by it of the present Convention comprises the Mandated

Territory of South-West Africa.

PARIS, July 5, 1947.

L. C. BURKE

PS

3342

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

m C th

20

ANNEX

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION
PREAMBLE

59 Stat. 1046.

In consideration of the obligations placed upon the United Nations by Article 57 of the Charter of the United Nations , the United Nations and the Universal Postal Union agree as follows :

Article I

United Nations recognition.

The United Nations recognizes the Universal Postal Union (here-

inafter called the Union) as the specialized agency responsible for tak-

ing such action as may be appropriate under its basic instrument for the accomplishment of the purposes set forth therein.

Article II

RECIPROCAL REPRESENTATION

1. Representatives of the United Nations shall be invited to

attend all the Union's congresses, administrative conferences and

Participation in meetings of Economic and Social Council.

commissions , and to participate, without vote , in the deliberations of these meetings .
2. Representatives of the Union shall be invited to attend meetings of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (herein-

after called the Council) , of its commissions and committees , and to

participate, without vote, in the deliberations thereof with respect to

items on the agenda in which the Union may be concerned.

Participation in meetings of General

3. Representatives of the Union shall be invited to attend the

Assembly.

meetings of the General Assembly during which questions within the

competence of the Union are under discussion , for purposes of con-

sultation , and to participate, without vote , in the deliberations of the

main committees of the General Assembly with respect to items

concerning the Union .

Distribution of written statements.

4. Written statements presented by the Union shall be distributed

by the Secretariat of the United Nations to the Members of the General

Assembly, the Council and its commissions, and the Trusteeship

Council, as appropriate . Similarly, written statements presented by

the United Nations shall be distributed by the Union to its members.

Article III PROPOSAL OF AGENDA ITEMS
Subject to such preliminary consultation as may be necessary, the Union shall include in the agenda of its congresses, administrative conferences or commissions , or , as the case may be, shall submit to its

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3343

members in accordance with the provisions of the Universal Postal Convention, items proposed to it by the United Nations. Similarly, the Council, its commissions and committees, and the Trusteeship Council shall include in their agenda items proposed by the Union.

Article IV

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE UNITED NATIONS

1. The Union agrees to arrange for the submission as soon as possible, for appropriate action, to its congresses or its administrative conferences or commissions , or to its members , in conformity with the provisions of the Universal Postal Convention , of all formal recommendations which the United Nations may make to it. Such recommendations will be addressed to the Union and not directly to its members .
2. The Union agrees to enter into consultation with the United Nations, upon request, with respect to such recommendations, and in due course to report to the United Nations on the action taken by the Union or by its members to give effect to such recommendations, or on the other results of their consideration.
3. The Union will co-operate in whatever further measures may be necessary to make co -ordination of the activities of specialized agencies and those of the United Nations fully effective . In particular , it will co-operate with any body which the Council may establish for the purpose of facilitating such co-ordination and will furnish such information as may be required for the carrying out of this purpose.
Article V

EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS

1. Subject to such arrangements as may be necessary for the safeguarding of confidential material, the fullest and promptest exchange of information and documents shall be made between the United Nations and the Union.
2. Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of the preceding paragraph :
(a) The Union shall submit to the United Nations an annual report on its activities ;
(b) The Union shall comply to the fullest extent practicable with any request which the United Nations may make for the furnishing of special reports, studies or information, subject to the conditions set forth in article XI ;
(c) The Union shall furnish written advice on questions within its competence as may be requested by the Trusteeship Council ;
(d) The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall, upon request, consult with the Director of the International Bureau of the Union regarding the provision to the Union of such information as may be of special interest to it.

Post, p . 3345.

3344

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

59 Stat. 1053.

Article VI
ASSISTANCE TO THE UNITED NATIONS
The Union agrees to co-operate with and to give assistance to the United Nations , its principal and subsidiary organs , so far as is consistent with the provisions of the Universal Postal Convention.
As regards the Members of the United Nations, the Union agrees that in accordance with Article 103 of the Charter no provision in the Universal Postal Convention or related agreements shall be construed as preventing or limiting any State in complying with its obligations to the United Nations .
Article VII
PERSONNEL ARRANGEMENTS
The United Nations and the Union agree to co-operate as necessary to ensure as much uniformity as possible in the conditions of employment of personnel, and to avoid competition in the recruitment of personnel .
Article VIII
STATISTICAL SERVICES
1. The United Nations and the Union agree to co-operate with a view to securing the greatest possible usefulness and utilization of statistical information and data.
2. The Union recognizes the United Nations as the central agency for the collection , analysis , publication , standardization and improvement of statistics serving the general purposes of international organizations .
3. The United Nations recognizes the Union as the appropriate agency for the collection , analysis , publication , standardization and improvement of statistics within its special sphere, without prejudice to the right of the United Nations to concern itself with such statistics so far as it may be essential for its own purposes or for the improvement of statistics throughout the world .

Article IX

ADMINISTRATIVE AND TECHNICAL SERVICES

1. The United Nations and the Union recognize the desirability, in the interests of the most efficient use of personnel and resources, of

Registration and deposit of official docuInents.

avoiding the establishment of competitive or overlapping services . 2. Arrangements shall be made between the United Nations and
the Union with regard to the registration and deposit of official documents .

Article X

BUDGETARY ARRANGEMENTS

The annual budget of the Union shall be transmitted to the United Nations, and the General Assembly may make recommendations thereon to the Congress of the Union.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3345

Article XI

FINANCING OF SPECIAL SERVICES

In the event of the Union being faced with the necessity of incurring substantial extra expense as a result of any request which the United Nations may make for special reports , studies or information in accordance with article V or with any other provisions of this agreement, consultation shall take place with a view to determining the most equitable manner in which such expense shall be borne .

Ante, p. 3343.

Article XII

INTER-AGENCY AGREEMENTS
The Union will inform the Council of the nature and scope of any agreement between the Union and any specialized agency or other inter-governmental organization, and further agrees to inform the Council of the preparation of any such agreements.

Article XIII

LIAISON

1. The United Nations and the Union agree to the foregoing provisions in the belief that they will contribute to the maintenance of effective liaison between the two organizations . They affirm their intention of taking in agreement whatever measures may be necessary to this end .
2. The liaison arrangements provided for in this agreement shall apply, as far as is appropriate, to the relations between the Union and the United Nations , including its branch and regional offices.

Article XIV

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AGREEMENT
The Secretary-General of the United Nations and the President of the Executive and Liaison Commission of the Union may enter into such supplementary arrangements for the implementation of this agreement as may be found desirable in the light of operating experience of the two organizations .

Article XV

ENTRY INTO FORCE

This agreement is annexed to the Universal Postal Convention concluded in Paris in 1947. It will come into force after approval by the General Assembly of the United Nations, and, at the earliest, at the same time as this Convention .

Ante, p. 3308.

3346

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Article XVI

REVISION
On six months' notice given on either part, this agreement shall be subject to revision by agreement between the United Nations and the Union.

Paris, 4 July 1947 .

(Signed) JAN PAPANEK

Acting Chairman of the Committee of the Economic and Social Council on Negotiations

with Specialized Agencies

(Signed) J. J. LE MOUËL Chairman of the XIIth Congress of the Universal Postal Union

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3347

Table of the Articles of the
REGULATIONS OF EXECUTION OF THE CONVENTION
TITLE I.
General Provisions.
SOLE CHAPTER .
Art. 101. Transit in closed mails and transit in open mails. 102. Exchange in closed mails. 103. Routing of mails. 104. Distant countries . 105. Fixing of equivalents. 106. Postage stamps and postage-paid impressions.
TITLE II.
Conditions for Acceptance of Articles of Correspondence .
CHAPTER I.
Provisions applicable to all classes of articles. Art. 107. Preparation and address.
108. Articles mailed under franking privilege. 109. General-delivery articles. 110. Articles in panel envelopes. 111. Articles subject to customs inspection. 112. Articles free of charges.
CHAPTER II.
Special provisions applicable to each class of articles. Art. 113. Letters.
114. Single post cards. 115. Post cards with reply paid. 116. Commercial papers. 117. Prints. 118. Articles assimilated to prints. 119. Prints. Authorized annotations and inclosures. 120. Prints. Preparation of articles. 121. Articles assimilated to raised prints for the blind. 122. Samples. Authorized annotations. 123. Samples. Preparation of articles. 124. Articles assimilated to samples. 125. Grouped articles. 126. Small packets. 127. "Phonopost" articles.
68706-52- PT. III- 47

3348

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
TITLE III.
Registered Articles . Return Receipts.
SOLE CHAPTER Art. 128. Registered articles.
129. Return receipts. 130. Return receipt requested after mailing. 131. Articles to be delivered to addressee only.
TITLE IV.
Operations Upon Departure and Arrival.
SOLE CHAPTER
Art. 132. Application of the date stamp. 133. Special-delivery articles. 134. Unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid articles. 135. Return of prepayment bulletins. Recovery of charges advanced. 136. Forwarded articles. 137. Forwarding envelopes and collective envelopes. 138. Undeliverable articles. 139. Withdrawal. Change of address. 140. Inquiries. Ordinary articles. 141. Inquiries. Registered articles. 142. Requests for information. 143. Inquiries and requests for information concerning articles mailed in another country. 144. Employment of postage stamps presumed to be fraudulent or of counterfeit impressions of stamping machines or printed indicia.
TITLE V.
Exchange of Mails.
SOLE CHAPTER Art. 145. Letter bills.
146. Transmission of registered articles. 147. Transmission of special-delivery articles. 148. Preparation of dispatches. 149. Delivery of dispatches. 150. Verification of dispatches. 151. Return of empty sacks.
TITLE VI.
Provisions Concerning Transit Charges.
CHAPTER I.
Statistical operations. Art. 152. Transit statistics.
153. Preparation and designation of closed mails during the statistical period. 154. Fixing the number of sacks and weight of closed mails. 155. Preparation of statements for closed mails. 156. List of closed mails exchanged in transit. 157. Closed mails exchanged with warships. 158. Transit bulletin. 159. Exceptions to Articles 154 , 155, and 158. 160. Extraordinary services.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL -UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

CHAPTER II.
Accounting. Adjusting of accounts. Art. 161. Transit-charge account.
162. General annual account. Intervention of the International Bureau. 163. Settlement of transit charges.

TITLE VII .

Miscellaneous Provisions .
SOLE CHAPTER . Art. 164. International reply coupons.
165. Postal identity cards. 166. Mails exchanged with warships. 167. Prepayment bulletins. Accounting for customs charges, etc. 168. Forms for the use of the public. 169. Period for retention of documents. 170. Telegraphic address.
TITLE VIII .

International Bureau .
SOLE CHAPTER .
Art. 171. Congresses and Conferences. 172. Information . Requests for modification of the Acts. 173. Publications. 174. Annual report. 175. Official language of the International Bureau. 176. International reply coupons. Postal identity cards. 177. Balancing and settlement of accounts. 178. Preparation of accounts. 179. General balance sheet. 180. Payment. 181. Communications to be addressed to the International Bureau. 182. Postal statistics. 183. Expenses of the International Bureau.
Final Provisions.
Art. 184. Effective date and duration of the Regulations.

Forms C 1 to C 26. [1]

Appendix .

¹ See French text, pp. 3251-3278.

3349

3350

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Ante, p. 3310.

REGULATIONS OF EXECUTION OF THE UNIVERSAL POSTAL CONVENTION
The undersigned, in view of Article 5 of the Universal Postal Convention concluded at Paris on July 5, 1947 , have, in the name of their respective Administrations, drawn up, by common consent, the following measures to assure the execution of the said Convention :
TITLE I.
General Provisions.
SOLE CHAPTER.
ARTICLE 101.
Transit in closed mails and transit in open mail.
1. Administrations may send reciprocally, through the intermediary of one or more of them, both closed mails and correspondence in open mail, in accordance with the needs of the traffic and the requirements of the service.
2. The transmission of correspondence in open mail to an intermediate Administration must be limited strictly to cases where the preparation of closed mails, either for the country of destination itself or for a country nearer the latter, is not justified .
ARTICLE 102 .
Exchange in closed mails.
1. The exchange of correspondence in closed mails is governed by mutual agreement between the Administrations concerned .
2. It is obligatory to make up closed mails whenever one of the intermediate Administrations so requests, basing its request on the fact that the number of articles in open mail is such as to hinder its operations .
3. The Administrations through whose intermediary closed mails are to be dispatched shall be duly notified in advance .
4. In case of alteration in an exchange of closed mails established between two Administrations through the intermediary of one or more third countries, the Administration of origin of the dispatch gives notice thereof to the Administrations of those countries .
5. If it is a question of a change in the routing of the dispatches, the new route to be followed shall be indicated to the Administrations which have previously effected the transit , while the former route is indicated, as information, to the Administrations which will subsequently perform such transit .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3351

ARTICLE 103.

Routing of mails.

1. Each Administration is bound to forward, by the most rapid. routes which it employs for its own dispatches, the closed mails and articles in open mail which are delivered to it by another Administration .

2. When a mail is composed of several sacks , they shall, as far as possible , remain together and be forwarded in the same dispatch .
3. Missent articles of all kinds are forwarded without any delay to their destination by the most rapid route.
4. The Administration of the country of origin has the option of indicating the route to be followed by the closed mails which it dis-

Missent articles. Optional routes.

patches, provided that the employment of that route does not involve special expenses for an intermediate Administration . With the same

reservation, the Administrations intervening in the transportation shall take account of the route to be followed which has been indi-

cated by the sender on articles sent to them in open mail . 5. Administrations which make use of the option of collecting supple- ficUinepntrepopsatiadgeo.r insuf-

mentary charges, representing the extraordinary expenses pertaining to certain routes , are at liberty not to send unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid correspondence by those routes .

ARTICLE 104.

Distant countries .
1. Countries between which the shortest transit time by land or sea exceeds ten days, as well as those between which the average frequency of the mails is less than two trips a month, are considered as distant countries.
2. Countries of very great extent , or those whose internal routes of communication are but little developed , for questions where those factors play a decisive part, are assimilated to distant countries , in regard to the periods prescribed by the Convention and Agreements .
3. The International Bureau prepares a list of the countries mentioned in Sections 1 and 2.

ARTICLE 105.

Fixing of equivalents .
1. Administrations fix the equivalents of the rates and fees contemplated by the Convention and Agreements by agreement with the Swiss Postal Administration , which latter Administration shall give notice of the equivalents through the intermediary of the International Bureau. The same procedure is followed in case of change of equivalents .
2. The equivalents or changes of equivalents cannot enter into force except on the first of a month, and at the earliest fifteen days after their notification by the International Bureau .

Entry into force.

3352

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Tables.

3. That Bureau makes up a table indicating, for each country, the

Ante, p. 3337. Monetary fractions.

equivalents of the rates and fees mentioned in Section 1 , showing the percentage of increase or reduction , if any, made in the rates by virtue of article II of the Final Protocol of the Convention .
4. Monetary fractions resulting from the additional charge appli-

cable to shortpaid correspondence may be rounded off by the Administrations which collect such charge. The sum to be added on that

account may not exceed the amount of 5 centimes .

Equivalent for indemnity.

5. Each Administration notifies the International Bureau directly

Ante, p. 3329.

of the equivalent fixed by it for the indemnity contemplated by Article 59 of the Convention.

ARTICLE 106.

Colors.

Postage stamps and postage-paid impressions.
1. The postage stamps representing the basic rates of the Union or their equivalents in the money of each country are made up in the following colors :

The stamp representing the postage on a single-rate ordinary letter, in blue;
The stamp representing the rate for an ordinary post card, in red ; The stamp representing the postage on a single-rate ordinary print, in green.

Lettering.
Prepaid prints. Ante, p. 3325.

2. Impressions produced by stamping machines shall be bright red , whatever value they represent.
3. Postage stamps and postage-paid impressions shall bear, in Latin characters as far as possible, the indication of the country of origin, and mention their postage value in accordance with the table of equivalents adopted . The number of monetary units or fractions of the unit serving to express that value is indicated in Arabic figures.
4. As for prints prepaid by means of indicia, printed or otherwise obtained (Article 50 of the Convention) , the indication of the country

of origin and the postage value may be replaced by the name of the

office of origin and the note Taxe perçue (postage collected) , Port payé (postage paid) , or a similar expression . That note may be worded in

French or in the language of the country of origin ; it may also be abbreviated , e. g .: T. P. or P. P. In all cases, the indication adopted

Commemorative, etc., stamps.

shall be boxed or underscored with a heavy line. 5. Commemorative or charity stamps, for which an additional
charge is to be paid in addition to the postage value, shall be made up

Perforations.

in such a way as to avoid any doubt as to that value. 6. Postage stamps may be marked with distinctive perforations,
under the conditions fixed by the Administration which has issued them .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947
TITLE II .
Conditions for Acceptance of Articles of Correspondence .
CHAPTER I.
Provisions Applicable to all Classes of Articles.
ARTICLE 107.
Preparation and address. 1. The Administrations shall advise the public :
(a) To address mail articles in Latin characters , and to place the address lengthwise, in such a way as to leave the necessary space for the service notations or labels ;
(b) To indicate the names of the locality and country of destination in capital letters ;
(c) To indicate the address in a precise and complete manner, so that the dispatch of the article and its delivery to the addressee may be effected without research ;
(d) To place postage stamps or postage-paid impressions in the upper right-hand corner of the address side ;
(e) To indicate the name and address of the sender, either on the front and at the left side , in such a way as not to affect either the clarity of the address or the application of the service notations or labels, or on the back ;
(f) To use, for articles of all kinds, envelopes whose dimensions are not less than 10 centimeters in length and 7 centimeters in width ;
(g) To make up their articles securely, particularly if they are addressed to distant countries ;
(h) To add the word Lettre (letter) on the address side of letters which, by reason of their volume or packing, may be mistaken for other articles ;
(i) On articles sent at the reduced rate, to indicate, by annotations such as : Papiers d'affaires (commercial papers) , Imprimés (prints) , Echantillon (sample) , Petit paquet (small packet) , etc.; the class to which they belong.
2. Articles of any kind whose address side has been wholly or partly divided into several spaces intended to receive successive addresses are not accepted.
3. Non-postage stamps and charity or other stamps capable of being mistaken for postage stamps may not be affixed to the address side. The same applies to imprints of stamps which might be confused with postage-paid impressions .

3353

3354

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 108.

Ante, p. 3326,

Articles mailed under franking privilege.
1. Correspondence of the postal service mailed under franking privilege shall bear , in the upper left-hand corner of the front, the notation Service des postes (postal service) , or a similar notation.
2. Correspondence admitted to the franking privilege as contemplated in Sections 2 to 4 of Article 52 , shall bear in the upper lefthand corner of the front, the notation Service des prisonniers de guerre (Prisoners of war mail) or Service des prisonniers civils (Mail for civilian prisoners) , as the case may be.
3. The indications contemplated in Sections 1 and 2 may be followed by a translation in another language.
ARTICLE 109 .

General-delivery articles.
The address of articles sent to general delivery shall indicate the name of the addressee. The use of initials, figures, simple given names, fictitious names , or conventional marks of any kind , is not permitted for such articles.
ARTICLE 110.

Articles in panel envelopes.

1. Articles in transparent-panel envelopes are accepted under the following conditions :

(a) The panel shall lie parallel to the longest dimension , so that the address of the addressee appears in the same direction and the application of the date stamp is not hindered ;

(b) The transparency of the panel shall assure perfect legibility of the address, even by artificial light, and shall not interfere with the application of a written note ; panel envelopes whose vitrified part causes reflection of artificial light are excluded ;

(c) Only the name and address of the addressee shall appear through the panel ; the contents of the envelope shall be folded in such a way that the address cannot be wholly or partly covered as a result of slipping ;

(d) The address shall be indicated legibly, in ink, in typewriting, or by printing, in dark colored letters ; articles whose addresses are written in ordinary or indelible pencil are not accepted .

Entirely transparent, etc., envelopes.

2. Articles in entirely transparent envelopes or open-panel envelopes are not accepted.
ARTICLE 111.

Ante, p. 3251.

Articles subject to customs inspection.
1. Articles to be submitted to customs inspection shall bear on the front a green label conforming to Form C 1 hereto appended . In regard to small packets, the affixing of the label is obligatory in all cases .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3355

2. If the country of destination requires it or if the sender prefers , the articles mentioned in Section 1 are also accompanied by the pre-

scribed number of separate customs declarations conforming to Form C 2 hereto appended , attached securely to the outside of the article

Ante, p. 3252.

by a crossed string or inserted within the article itself. In this case, only the upper part of the label C 1 is affixed to the article.
3. In regard to prints, and shipments of serums and vaccines , the absence of the label C 1 cannot involve the return of those articles to

Prints, serums, and vaccines.

the office of origin.

4. The Administrations do not assume any responsibility for the

Customs declarations.

customs declarations , regardless of the form in which they are made up.

ARTICLE 112.

Articles free of charges.
1. Articles to be delivered to the addressees free of all charges shall bear at the top of the address side the conspicuous heading Franc de droits (free of charges) or a similar notation in the language of the country of origin . Such articles shall bear, on the address side, a yellow label also bearing in large letters the notation Franc de droits (free of charges) .
2. Every article sent free of charges is accompanied by a prepayment bulletin conforming to Form C 3 hereto appended , made of yellow cardboard, the front of which is filled in by the office of mailing. The prepayment bulletin is securely attached to the article.

Ante, p. 3253.

CHAPTER II. Special Provisions Applicable to Each Class of Articles.

ARTICLE 113.

Letters.

No condition of form or sealing is required for letters , provided the stipulations of Article 110 are observed . The necessary space must
be left absolutely free on the front for the prepayment, the address , and the service notes or labels .

ARTICLE 114.

Single post cards.
1. Post cards shall be made of cardboard , or of paper strong enough not to hinder manipulation.
2. Folded sheets of paper whose two inner faces have been glued completely one over the other, so that other articles do not run the risk of slipping inside, are assimilated to post cards .
3. Post cards shall bear, at the top of the address side , the heading Carte postale (post card) in French or the equivalent of that heading in another language. That heading is not obligatory for cards of private manufacture.
4. Post cards shall be sent uninclosed, i . e. , without wrapper or envelope.
68706-52-PT. III- 48

Uninclosed .

3356

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Reserved spaces.

5. At least the right half of the front is reserved for the address of the addressee and the service notes or labels ; the postage stamps or

postage-paid impressions shall be applied to the front, and, as far as

possible, to the right half of the card . The sender may use the back

and the left half of the front , subject to the provisions of Section 6

following.

Approved attachments .

6. It is forbidden to join or attach samples of merchandise or

similar articles to post cards . However, illustrations, photographs ,

stamps of any kind, labels and clippings of any kind, of paper or other very thin material, as well as address labels or slips to be folded back, may be affixed thereto , on condition that such articles are not

of such a nature as to alter the character of the post cards, and that they adhere completely to the card. Such articles may be affixed only on the back or on the left half of the address side of the post

card, except address labels or slips , which may occupy the entire front. As for stamps of any kind likely to be mistaken for postage stamps, they may be placed only on the back.

7. Post cards not fulfilling the conditions laid down for that class of articles are treated as letters with the exception, however, of

those on which the irregularity consists solely of the application of

the stamps on the back. The latter are considered as unprepaid and

are treated accordingly, depending upon the classification to which they belong, based on the text which they contain or their dimensions.

ARTICLE 115.

Post cards with reply paid.

1. Post cards with reply paid shall have on the front, in the French language, as the heading of the first part : Carte Postale avec réponse payée (post card with reply paid) , and Carte postale-réponse (reply post card) on the second part . Each of the two halves shall, moreover, fulfill the other conditions laid down for a single post card ; they are folded, one over the other, so that the fold forms the upper edge, and may not be fastened in any manner.
2. The address of the reply card shall be on the inside of the article. 3. It is permissible for the sender to indicate his name and address on the front of the reply half. 4. The sender is also authorized to have printed on the back of the reply card a questionnaire to be filled in by the addressee ; the latter may also return the inquiry half attached to the reply portion. In this case, the address of the inquiry card shall be crossed out and placed on the inside of the article. 5. The prepayment of the reply half by means of postage stamps of the country which has issued the card is valid only if both halves of the post card with reply card have arrived joined together from the country of origin and if the reply half is sent from the country where it was received by mail and is addressed to the said country of origin. If those conditions are not fulfilled , it is treated as an unprepaid post card.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3357

ARTICLE 116.

Commercial papers.

1. The following are considered as commercial papers , on condition that they do not have the character of actual personal correspondence : All papers and documents, wholly or partly written or drawn ; such

as out-of-date articles of correspondence (opened letters and post cards) which have already reached their original destination , and copies thereof ; papers of legal procedure ; documents of all kinds

drawn up by ministerial officers ; waybills or bills of lading ; invoices ; certain documents of insurance companies ; copies of or extracts from documents under private seal written on stamped or unstamped

paper; scores or sheets of music in manuscript ; manuscripts of works or newspapers sent separately ; original and corrected exercises of

students, but without any notes not relating directly to the execution
of the work. Reference slips, no
2. Such documents may be accompanied by reference slips or tations.

invoices bearing the following or similar notations : Enumeration of

the pieces composing the shipment , references to correspondence

exchanged between the sender and the addressee, such as: "Inclosure

for our letter of . ·

· addressed to M.

Our reference .

"" . Customer's reference

3. Out-of-date correspondence may bear canceled postage stamps.

or postage-paid impressions which have served to pay the original

postage . 4. The following are also considered as commercial papers, even

when they have the character of actual and personal correspondence :

All articles containing correspondence exchanged between students in

schools, provided that such articles are sent through the intermediary of the heads of the schools concerned.
5. Commercial papers are subject, in regard to form and make-up ,

Form and makeup.

to the provisions laid down by Article 120 hereafter for prints.

ARTICLE 117.

Prints.

1. The following are considered as prints : Newspapers and period-

icals, books, pamphlets, sheet-music , visiting cards , address cards, printing proofs, engravings, photographs and albums containing

photographs , pictures, drawings , plans, maps, patterns to be cut out ,

catalogs, prospectuses, advertisements, and printed , engraved , litho-

graphed or autographed notices of various kinds, and , in general , all

impressions or reproductions obtained on paper or other material

assimilable to paper, on parchment or on cardboard , by means of

printing, engraving, lithography, autography or any other easily

recognizable mechanical process , with the exception of the copying

press , stamps with movable or immovable type, and the typewriter . 2. The print rate does not apply to prints which bear any marks
capable of constituting a conventional language, or, with the excep-

Exclusions print rate.

from

tions specifically authorized by Articles 118 and 119 hereafter, to those whose text has been modified after printing.

3358

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Motion · picture films, etc.

3. Motion-picture films, phonograph records , as well as perforated

papers intended to be used on automatic musical instruments , are not

accepted at the print rate. The same applies to articles of stationery

properly so called , when it appears clearly that the printed text is not

Post cards.

the essential part of the article. 4. Cards bearing the heading Carte postale (post card) or the

equivalent of that heading in any language are admitted at the print

rate, provided that they fulfill the general conditions applicable to

prints . Those which do not fulfill such conditions are treated as post

Ante, p. 3356.

cards, or, if occasion arises, as letters, by application of the provisions of Article 114 , Section 7.

ARTICLE 118.

Articles assimilated to prints.

Reproductions, by a mechanical process of polygraphy, chromography, etc., of a manuscript or typewritten original, are assimilated to prints, provided they are mailed under the conditions prescribed by the domestic regulations of the Administration of origin. Each such reproduction may receive the annotations authorized for prints.
ARTICLE 119.

Prints. Authorized annotations and inclosures.

Sender's and addressee's names, etc.
Corrections. Reference by marks, etc.

1. It is permissible, on the outside and inside of all print articles :
(a) To indicate the name, title , profession, firm and address of the sender and the addressee, the date of mailing, the signature, telephone number and the telephone exchange, the telegraphic address and code, and current postal-check or bank account of the sender, as well as a serial or entry number relating exclusively to the article ;
(b) To correct mistakes in printing ; (c) To strike out, underline or inclose by means of marks certain
words or passages in the printed text, unless that is done with the intention of constituting correspondence .

Maritime movements .
Travelers ' announcements .
Order blanks, etc.

2. It is also permissible to indicate or add :
(a) On notices concerning the departure and arrival of ships : The dates and hours of such departures and arrivals , as well as the names of the ships and the ports of departure , call and arrival ;
(b) On travelers ' announcements : The name of the traveler , the date, hour and name of the place through which he contemplates passing, as well as the place where he intends to stop ;
(c) On order, subscription or offer blanks for publications , books, newspapers, engravings and pieces of music : The works and the number of copies ordered or offered , the price of such works , as well as annotations representing price factors , the method of payment, the edition, the names of the authors and publishers , the catalog number and the words broché (stitched or paperbound) , cartonné (boards) , or relié (bound) ;

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3359

(d) On forms used in connection with loans from libraries : The titles of the books, number of copies requested or sent, names

Library forms.

of authors and publishers, catalog numbers , number of days

permitted for reading, name of the person desiring to consult

the book, as well as other brief indications relating to the works

in question ;

(e) On illustrated cards , printed visiting cards , as well as on Christ-

Illustrated , etc.. cards.

mas and New Year cards : Good wishes, congratulations, thanks,

condolences or other forms of politeness expressed in five words

or by means of five conventional initials at most ; (f) On printing proofs : Such changes and additions as relate to

Printing proofs.

corrections, form and printing, as well as notes such as Bon à

tirer (ready for printing) , Vu-Bon à tirer (O. K. for printing) ,

or any similar note relating to the preparation of the work.

In case of lack of space, the additions may be made on

separate sheets ;

(g) On fashion plates, maps, etc .: Colors ; (h) On current price lists, offers for advertisements, market and
stock quotations, commercial circulars and prospectuses :

Fashion plates, maps, etc.
Current price lists, etc.

Figures ; any other notations representing price factors ; (i) On books , pamphlets, newspapers, photographs, engravings,
sheet-music , and , in general, on all printed , engraved , litho-

Books, etc.

graphed or autographed literary or artistic productions : A

dedication consisting of a simple tribute ; and , on photographs or engravings, a very concise explanatory legend and other

summary information concerning the photograph or engraving itself;
(j ) On passages cut from newspapers and periodicals : The name, date, number and address of the publication from which the article is taken ;

Press clippings.

(k) On advices of change of address : The new address of the sender and the effective date thereof, or the old address and the date of the change.

Change of address.

3.

The additions and corrections contemplated in Sections 1 and 2

Additions and corrections.

may be made by hand or by any mechanical process.

4. Finally, it is permissible to attach :

(a) To corrected or uncorrected printing proofs : The manuscript Proofs; manuscript.

belonging thereto ;

(b) To articles of the classes mentioned under Section 2 , letter (i) :

Invoice of article sent.

An open invoice covering the article sent, reduced to its essential

terms ;

(c) To articles mentioned in Article 36 , Sections 3 and 4 of the Ante, p. 3320.

Convention : A transfer form bearing the printed designation of a current postal account ;

(d) To all prints : A card , envelope or wrapper bearing the address of the sender of the article and prepaid for the return by means of postage stamps of the country of destination of the article.

Prepaid reply card, etc.

3360 Packing.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
ARTICLE 120.
Prints. Preparation of articles.
1. Prints shall be placed either under wrapper, in rolls , between boards, in an open case , or in an unsealed envelope , provided , if need be, with easily removable fasteners offering no danger, or be fastened with a string which is easily untied.
2. Prints in the shape and consistency of a card may be sent open, without wrapper, envelope or fastening. The same mode of dispatch is allowed for prints folded in such a way that they cannot become unfolded en route.
3. At least the right half of the front of prints sent in the form of cards, including illustrated post cards benefiting by the reduced rate, is reserved for the address of the addressee and the service notations or labels. The postage stamps or postage-paid impressions shall be applied to the front and , in so far as possible, to the right half of the card .
4. In all cases , the articles shall be made up in such a way that other articles do not run the risk of becoming lost within them.
ARTICLE 121 .
Articles assimilated to raised print for the blind. Plates bearing characters for the use of the blind are assimilated to raised prints for the blind. The same applies to sound recordings intended only for the use of the blind , provided that they are sent by an officially recognized institution for the blind or addressed to such an institution.
ARTICLE 122.
Samples . Authorized annotations.
It is permissible to indicate, by hand or by a mechanical process , on the outside or inside of packages of samples , and , in the latter case , on the sample itself or on a special sheet relative thereto , the name, title, profession, firm and address of the sender and of the addressee, as well as the date of mailing , the signature , telephone number and telephone exchange, the telegraphic address and code , current postalcheck or bank account of the sender, a manufacturer's mark or trademark, a brief indication concerning the manufacturer and the supplier of the merchandise or concerning the person to whom the sample is
addressed , as well as serial or entry numbers, prices and any other annotations representing price factors, particulars relative to weight, measurements and size , as well as the quantity available, and such as are necessary to determine the origin and character of the merchandise .
ARTICLE 123.
Samples. Preparation of articles . 1. Samples of merchandise shall be placed in sacks, boxes or removable envelopes.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3361

2. Articles of glass or other fragile materials, articles containing

liquids, oils, fatty substances, dry powders (whether dyes or not) , as

well as articles containing live bees, leeches and silkworm eggs, or the parasites mentioned in Article 49 , Section 1 of the Convention , are

Ante, p. 3324.

accepted for transmission as samples of merchandise, provided that they are packed in the following manner :

(a) Articles of glass or other fragile materials shall be securely packed (in boxes of metal, wood or strong corrugated paste-

Glass, etc.

board) , so as to avoid all danger to postal employees and the mails ; (b) Liquids, oils and substances which easily liquefy shall be in-

Liquids, etc.

closed in hermetically sealed containers . Each receptacle

shall be placed in a separate box of metal , strong wood or

strong corrugated pasteboard containing sawdust , cotton or

spongy material in sufficient quantity to absorb the liquid in case of breakage of the receptacle. The lid of the box shall be

fastened in such a way that it cannot be easily detached ; (c) Fatty substances which do not easily liquefy, such as oint-

Fatty substances.

ments, soft soap, resin, etc. , as well as silkworm eggs , the

transmission of which presents fewer difficulties, shall be inclosed in an inside cover (box, bag of linen or parchment, etc. ),

which shall itself be placed in a second box of wood , metal or
stout, thick leather; Dry powdered dyes,
(d) Dry powdered dyes such as aniline blue , etc. , are not accepted etc. unless inclosed in stout tin boxes, placed in turn inside wooden

boxes , with sawdust between the two packings . Dry non-

coloring powders shall be placed in boxes of metal, wood or

pasteboard ; the boxes themselves shall be inclosed in a bag of linen or parchment ;
(e) Live bees, leeches and parasites shall be inclosed in boxes so constructed as to avoid all danger.

Live bees, leeches, etc.

3. Articles which would deteriorate if packed in accordance with

Hermetically sealed containers .

the general rules, as well as samples placed in a transparent container

permitting verification of their contents, may, as an exception, be

accepted in a hermetically sealed container. The same applies to

samples of industrial or vegetable products mailed under seal by the

manufacturer or sealed by the inspection authorities of the country

of origin. In such cases, the Administrations concerned may require the sender or the addressee to facilitate inspection of the contents,

either by opening certain articles indicated by them, or in some other satisfactory manner.
4. No packing is required for articles consisting of a single piece, such as pieces of wood, metal, etc. , which it is not the custom of the trade to pack .
5. The address of the addressee shall be indicated , as far as possible,

Single articles . Addressing, etc.

on the wrapper or on the article itself. If the packing or the article is not suitable for the inscription of the address and service information, or for the application of the postage stamps , use shall be made

3362

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
of a tag, preferably of parchment, to be securely attached . The same applies when stamping is likely to damage the article.
ARTICLE 124.
Articles assimilated to samples .
The following are admitted at the sample rate : Electrotypes, cut out patterns sent singly, keys sent singly, fresh cut flowers, articles of natural history (dried or preserved animals and plants, geological specimens, etc.) , tubes of serum or vaccine and pathological objects rendered inoffensive by their mode of preparation and packing. Such articles, with the exception of tubes of serum and vaccine sent in the general interest by laboratories or institutions officially recognized , may not be sent for commercial purposes . Their packing shall be in accordance with the general regulations concerning samples of merchandise .
ARTICLE 125 .
Grouped articles.
1. The inclusion in a single packet of articles of correspondence of different classes is limited to commercial papers , to prints other than raised print for the blind , and to samples of merchandise , on condition :
(a) That each article taken singly does not exceed the limits which are applicable to it in regard to weight and dimensions ;
(b) That the total weight does not exceed 2 kilograms per article ; (c) That the postage paid is at least the minimum charge for com-
mercial papers if the article contains commercial papers, and the minimum charge for samples if it is composed of prints and samples .
2. These provisions are applicable only to articles subject to the same rate per unit. When an Administration detects the inclusion in one and the same article of objects liable to different rates , that article is charged , for its total weight, with the rate applicable to the class for which the rate is highest.
ARTICLE 126.
Small packets.
1. Small packets are subject to the provisions laid down for samples of merchandise in regard to preparation and packing .
2. It is permissible to inclose therein an open invoice, reduced to its essential elements, as well as a simple copy of the address of the article with mention of the address of the sender.
3. The names and addresses of the senders shall appear on the outside of the packets.
ARTICLE 127.
"Phonopost" articles.
1. Subject to the provisions specially fixed for Phonopost articles, these shall be governed by the regulations applicable to letters .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3363

2. Phonograph records mailed as Phonopost articles shall be inclosed in strong unsealed envelopes .
3. The sender shall mention in conspicuous characters on the front of the envelope, in addition to the ordinary annotations, the word Phonopost. It is permissible to print on the front, in one or more languages, an explanatory notice concerning the manner of reproducing the record.
4. It is permitted to inclose, adequately protected , the necessary needles for the reproduction of the record .
TITLE III.

Registered Articles. Return Receipts. SOLE CHAPTER.

ARTICLE 128.

Registered articles.
1. Registered articles shall bear on the address side the conspicuous notation Recommandé (registered) , or a similar notation in the language of the country of origin .
2. With the exceptions below, no special conditions as to form, sealing or wording of the address are required for such articles.
3. Articles of correspondence which bear an address written in pencil or consisting of initials are not accepted for registration . However, the address of articles other than those which are sent in transparent-panel envelopes may be written with indelible pencil.
4. Registered articles shall bear, in the left-hand corner of the address side, a label conforming to Form C 4 hereto appended , with indication in Latin characters of the letter R, the name of the office of origin and the serial number of the article . However, it is permissible for Administrations whose domestic legislation at present opposes the use of labels to defer the adoption of this measure and to use, for the designation of registered articles, stamps reading Recommandé (registered) or R, beside which shall appear the indication of the office of origin and that of the serial number. Such stamps shall likewise be applied in the left-hand corner of the address side.
5. No serial number shall be placed on the front of registered articles by the intermediate Administrations.

Ante, p. 3251 .

ARTICLE 129.

Return receipt.

Marking of return 1. Articles for which the sender requests a return receipt shall receipts.
bear, on the front, the conspicuous notation: Avis dé réception

(return receipt) ; or the imprint of a stamp: A. R. The sender shall

inscribe his name and address on the outside of the article , in Latin characters.

2. They are accompanied by a form of the consistency of a post card, light red in color, conforming to Form C 5 hereto appended ;

Prescribed form. Ante, p. 3254.

3364

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

that form is made up by the office of origin or any other office to be designated by the Administration of origin, and fastened securely to the outside of the article . If it does not reach the office of desti-

nation, the latter makes up a new return receipt.

3. The weight of the return-receipt form is not considered in

Return to sender. Ante, p. 3254.

calculating the postage. 4. The office of destination returns the Form C 5, duly completed ,

in the ordinary mail , without cover and free of postage, to the address

of the sender of the article .

Failure to return to sender.

5. When the sender makes inquiry about a return receipt which has

not reached him within the proper period , the procedure set forth

in Article 130 hereafter is followed . In such a case, a second fee

is not collected , and the office of origin enters at the top of the Form C 5 the note: Duplicata de l'avis de réception etc. (duplicate return receipt requested , etc.) .
ARTICLE 130 .

Ante, p. 3254. Ante, p. 3260. Post, p. 3370.

Return receipt requested after mailing.
1. When the sender requests a return receipt after mailing the article, the office of origin fills out a Form C 5.
2. The Form C 5 is attached to a tracer, Form C 9 , mentioned in Article 141 hereafter ; that tracer, after having been provided with a postage stamp representing the fee payable, is treated in accordance with the provisions of the said Article 141 , except that, in case of regular delivery of the article, the office of destination removes the Form C 9 and returns the Form C 5 to origin in the manner prescribed by Article 129 , Section 4 .
3. The special provisions adopted by the Administrations by virtue of Article 141 hereafter, for the transmission of inquiries for registered articles, are applicable to requests for return receipts made after mailing.
ARTICLE 131 .

Articles to be delivered to the addressee only.
1. Articles to be delivered to the addressee only shall bear, underlined in red, the notation A remettre en main propre (To be delivered to the addressee only) or an equivalent notation in a language known in the country of destination .
2. The Administrations must make two attempts to deliver such articles .
TITLE IV.

Operations Upon Departure and Arrival. SOLE CHAPTER. ARTICLE 132 .
Application of the date stamp . 1. Correspondence is postmarked on the front by the office of origin with a stamp indicating, in Latin characters as far as possible , the place

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3365

of origin and the date of mailing . In localities having several post

offices , the stamp shall indicate which is the office of mailing .
Prepaid correspond2. The application of the stamp contemplated in Section 1 is not ence.

obligatory for correspondence prepaid by means of impressions of

stamping machines if the indication of the place of origin and date of

mailing appears in such impressions .

Neither is the application of the

Unregistered articles.

stamp in question required for unregistered articles at the reduced

rate, on condition that the place of origin is indicated on such articles. 3. All valid postage stamps shall be canceled . 4. Unless the Administrations have prescribed cancellation by means

Cancellation ofvalid stamps.

of a special marking, postage stamps not canceled through error or oversight on the part of the service of origin shall be canceled with a

heavy line by the office which detects the irregularity. In no case shall these stamps be marked with the date stamp .
5. Missent correspondence , except unregistered articles at reduced rate, shall be struck with the impression of the date stamp of the office

Missent correspondence.

at which it arrives through error. This obligation is imposed not only

upon fixed post offices, but also upon traveling post offices as far as

possible. The impression shall be placed on the back in the case of

letters, and on the front in the case of post cards .
Correspondence 6. The postmarking of correspondence mailed on board ships is mailed on board ship.

incumbent upon the postal agent or the officer on board in charge of

the service, or in their absence upon the post office at the port of call

where such correspondence is delivered in open mail . In such a case,

the office marks the articles with its date stamp and places on them the

note Navire (ship ) , Paquebot (mail steamer) , or a similar notation .

7. The office of destination of a reply-paid post card may apply its

Reply-paid post cards.

date stamp on the left side of the front of the reply half.

ARTICLE 133 .

Special-delivery articles.
Articles to be specially delivered shall have affixed beside the indication of the place of destination, a printed label of dark red color, or in place of it an inscription bearing in large letters the word Exprès (special delivery) .
ARTICLE 134.

Unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid articles .
1. Articles of correspondence on which any charge is to be collected after mailing, either from the addressee , or from the sender in the case of return as undeliverable , are marked with the T-stamp (postage due) in the upper right-hand corner of the front ; the indication in francs and centimes of the amount to be collected is entered in very legible figures beside the stamp.
2. The application of the T-stamp, as well as the indication of the amount to be collected , is incumbent upon the Administration of origin, or, in case of reforwarding or return as undeliverable, upon the redispatching Administration . However, if it is a question of articles coming from countries which apply reduced rates in relations with the

3366

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

redispatching Administration, the amount to be collected is indicated by the Administration which effects delivery.
3. The delivering Administration marks the article with the amount of postage to be collected .
4. Every article not bearing the T-stamp is considered as duly prepaid and treated accordingly, save in case of obvious error.
5. Account is not taken of postage stamps or postage-paid impressions not valid for prepayment . In such a case, the figure zero (0) is placed beside such stamps or impressions , which shall be boxed with pencil.
ARTICLE 135 .

Return of prepayment bulletins . Recovery of charges advanced .

1. After the delivery to the addressee of an article free of charges , the office which has advanced the customs or other charges on behalf

of the sender completes, in regard to itself, the indications which appear on the back of the prepayment bulletin, and transmits the

latter, accompanied by the supporting papers , to the office of origin of the article ; such transmission is effected in a sealed envelope, without indication of the contents .

2. However, each Administration has the right to cause the return

of prepayment bulletins bearing charges by offices specially designated , and to request that the bulletins be sent to a certain office .
3. The name of the office to which the bulletins are to be returned

is indicated , in all cases, by the office of origin of the article on the
front of the prepayment bulletin . Duplicate bulletins. 4. When an article bearing the notation Franc de droits (free of

charges) reaches the office of destination without any prepayment bulletin, the office charged with the customs clearance issues a dupli-

cate bulletin, on which it mentions the name of the country of origin,

and, as far as possible, the date of mailing of the article.

5. When the prepayment bulletin is lost after the delivery of the

Cancellation on return of articles.

article , a duplicate is prepared under the same conditions . 6. Prepayment bulletins belonging to articles which are returned
to origin for any reason shall be canceled by the Administration of

destination .

Currency conversion.

7. On receipt of a prepayment bulletin indicating the charges paid

by the service of destination, the Administration of origin converts

the amount of those charges into its own money at a rate which shall

not be higher than the rate fixed for the issuance of money orders

destined for the corresponding country. The result of the conversion

is indicated in the body of the form and on the lateral coupon. After

having recovered the amount of the charges , the office of origin de-

livers the coupon of the bulletin , and , if need be, the supporting papers , to the sender.

ARTICLE 136.

Forwarded articles.

Change of address.

1. Correspondence addressed to persons who have changed their residence is considered as addressed directly from the place of origin to the place of new destination .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3367

Unprepaid, etc., ar2. Articles which are not prepaid , or which are insufficiently pre- ticles."
paid for the first part of their journey, are marked with the charge
which would have been applied to them if they had been addressed
directly from the point of origin to the place of new destination. Articles prepaid for
3. Articles regularly prepaid for the first part of their journey and part ofjourney.
on which the additional charge for their subsequent transmission has
not been paid before their redirection are marked with a charge equal
to the difference between the amount of postage already paid and

that which would have been collected if the articles had originally been sent to their new destination .
4. Articles originally addressed to the interior of a country and

Articles for interior delivery.

duly prepaid in accordance with the domestic rates are considered

as articles regularly prepaid for their first transmission .

5. Articles originally sent free of postage in the domestic service
of a country are marked with the charge to which they would have
been liable if they had been addressed directly from the point of origin
to the place of new destination . Date stamp loca-
6. At the time of forwarding, the redispatching office applies its tions. date stamp on the front in the case of articles in the form of cards, and on the back for all other classes of mail .

7. Ordinary or registered articles which are returned to the senders

for completion or correction of the address are not considered as redi-

rected correspondence when returned to the service ; they are treated

as new correspondence, and are therefore liable to new postage charges . 8. The customs duties and other non-postal charges whose cancela-
tion it has been impossible to obtain upon redirection or return to origin

Customs duties, etc.; C.O.D. service.

(Article 138 hereafter) are recovered , through the C. O. D. service,

from the Administration of new destination . In that case, the Ad-

ministration of original destination attaches to the article an explana-

tory note and a C. O. D. money order (Form R 3 of the Agreement concerning collect-on-delivery articles) . If the C. O. D. service is

not in operation between the Administrations concerned, the charges
in question are recovered through correspondence. Unsuccessful deliv-
9. In the event that the attempt to deliver an article at the ad- ery by special messendressee's residence by special messenger has been unsuccessful, the ger.
redispatching office shall cross out the label or the notation Exprès
(special delivery) by means of two heavy transverse lines .

ARTICLE 137 .

Forwarding envelopes and collective envelopes.

1. Articles of ordinary correspondence to be forwarded to one and the same person who has changed his residence may be inclosed in special envelopes conforming to Form C 6 hereto appended , furnished by the Administrations , on which shall be written only the name and new address of the addressee .
2. Articles subject to customs examination or articles whose form , volume or weight gives rise to risks of tearing may not be included in such envelopes ; the total weight of an envelope and its contents shall in no case exceed 500 grams .

Ante, p. 3255. Exclusions.

3368

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

3. The envelope shall be presented open to the reforwarding office ,

to permit it to collect such additional charges, if any, as may be due

on the articles which it contains, or to indicate on such articles the

charges to be collected on arrival when the additional postage has not

been prepaid. After verification, the forwarding office seals the en-

velope and applies the T-stamp to it if necessary, indicating in francs

and centimes the total amount of the charges to be collected .

Verification of con-

tents.

4. On arrival at destination, the envelope may be opened and its

contents verified by the office of delivery , which collects the additional

Ship mail.

charges not already paid, if any. 5. Ordinary articles of correspondence addressed either to seamen

and passengers on board one and the same ship, or to persons taking part in a joint voyage, may likewise be treated in accordance with the

provisions of Sections 1 to 4. In that case, the collective envelopes shall be marked with the address of the ship , navigation or travel

agency, etc. , to which they are to be delivered .

ARTICLE 138.

Undeliverable articles .

Indication of cause ofnon-delivery.

1. Before returning to the Administration of origin correspondence which has not been delivered for any reason, the office of destination shall indicate in a clear and concise manner, in the French language,

and when possible on the front of such articles, the cause of the non-delivery, in the following form: Inconnu (unknown) , Refusé (refused), En voyage (traveling) , Parti (removed) , Non réclamé

(unclaimed) , Décédé (deceased ) , etc. In the case of post cards and prints in the form of cards, the reason for the non-delivery is indicated on the right half of the front.

2. That indication is furnished by applying a stamp or affixing a label . Each Administration has the option of adding a translation in its own language of the cause of non-delivery, and any other indications which may be convenient for it.
3. The office of destination shall cross out the indications of place which concern it, and place on the front of the article the note Retour

Return .

(return), beside the indication of the office of origin . It shall also apply its date stamp to the back of letters and the front of post cards.
4. Undelivered articles are returned either singly or in a special bundle labeled Rebuts (undeliverable mail matter).

5. Registered articles which are undeliverable are returned to the

exchange office of the country of origin as if it were a question of

registered correspondence to be sent to that country.

Correspondence of domestic service.

6. Correspondence of the domestic service which is undeliverable

and must, for return to the senders, be sent to a foreign country, is

treated in accordance with the provisions of Article 136 .

Correspondence addressed in care of a

7. Correspondence for seamen and other persons addressed in care of

Consul.

a Consul and returned by him to the post office as unclaimed shall be

treated as undeliverable . The amount of the charges collected on such correspondence shall be refunded .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3369

ARTICLE 139.

Withdrawal. Change of address. 1. Requests for withdrawal of correspondence or for change of

Form of request.

address give rise to the preparation, by the sender, of a form in conformity with Form C 7 hereto appended ; a single form may be used

Ante, p. 3256.

for several articles mailed simultaneously at the same office by the

same sender addressed to the same addressee . In submitting the

request to the post office, the sender shall prove his identity and pro-

duce the certificate of mailing, if necessary. After he has proved his

identity, for which the Administration of the country of origin assumes responsibility, the procedure is as follows :

Request by mail. (a) If the request is intended to be sent by mail, the form, ac-

companied by a perfect facsimile of the envelope or address of

the article, is sent directly, under registered cover, to the office of destination ;
Request by tele(b) If the request is to be made by telegraph, the form is turned over ggraph.
to the telegraph service, which is charged with transmitting the

terms thereof to the post office of destination . The telegram is worded in the French language.
2. On receipt of the Form C 7 or the telegram taking its place, the office of destination searches for the correspondence in question and

Searches. Ante, p. 3256.

takes the necessary action.

3. If the search is fruitless, if the article has already been delivered

to the addressee, or if the telegraphic request is not explicit enough to

permit the article to be surely recognized , the fact is reported at once

to the office of origin , which advises the applicant accordingly. The

same applies when the customs examination reveals an irregularity. 4. Any Administration may request, by a notification addressed to
the International Bureau, that the exchange of requests concerning it

Exchange of requests.

be effected through the intermediary of its central Administration or an office specially designated .

5. In the event that the exchange of requests is effected through the

intermediary of the central Administrations , account shall be taken of requests sent directly by the offices of origin to the offices of desti-

nation, to the extent that the correspondence in question is withheld

from delivery pending the arrival of the request from the central Administration.
6. Administrations which avail themselves of the option provided

Expenses.

for by Section 4 assume any expense which may be incurred by the transmission, in their domestic service, by mail or telegraph, of the

communications to be exchanged with the office of destination. Employment of the telegraph service is obligatory when the sender himself has made use of that service , and when the office of destina-

Telegraph service.

tion cannot be advised in time by mail .

3370

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 140.

Ante, p. 3258.

Inquiries. Ordinary articles.
1. Every inquiry relative to an ordinary article gives rise to the preparation of a form in conformity with Form C 8 hereto appended , which must be accompanied, whenever possible, by a facsimile of the envelope or of the address of the article .
2. The office which receives the inquiry sends that form directly, without letter of transmittal , in a sealed envelope , to the corresponding office. The latter, after having obtained the necessary information from the addressee or from the sender, as the case may be, returns the form in the same manner to the office which has prepared it.
3. If the inquiry is seen to be well founded , the latter office sends the form to its central Administration , for purposes of further investigation .
4. A single form may be used for several articles mailed simultaneously at the same office by the same sender addressed to the same addressee .
5. Any Administration may request, by a notification addressed to the International Bureau , that inquiries concerning its service be transmitted to its central Administration or an office specially designated .
6. Form C 8 shall be returned to the Administration of origin of the article inquired about in accordance with the provisions of Article 141 , Section 8 , hereafter.
ARTICLE 141.

Ante, p. 3260. C.O.D. articles. Single form. Procedure.

Inquiries. Registered articles.
1. Every inquiry relative to a registered article is made on a form in conformity with Form C 9 hereto appended , which shall be accompanied , as far as possible, by a facsimile of the envelope or address of the article.
2. If the inquiry concerns a C. O. D. article , it shall also be accompanied by a duplicate of the money order R 3 of the Agreement concerning collect-on-delivery articles, or by a transfer bulletin, as the case may be.
3. A single form may be used for several articles mailed simultaneously at the same office by the same sender addressed to the same addressee .
4. The inquiry is , as a general rule , sent directly by the office of origin to the office of destination ; such transmission takes place without letter of transmittal and in a sealed envelope . If the office of destination is in a position to furnish information as to the final disposal made of the article, it completes the form and returns it to the office of origin.
5. When the disposal of the article cannot be established by the office of destination, the latter states the fact on the form and returns it to the office of origin, attaching thereto, whenever possible , a

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3371

declaration of the addressee stating that he has not received the

article. In that case, the Administration of origin completes the

form by indicating thereon the particulars of dispatch to the first intermediate Administration. It then transmits it to the latter

Administration, which enters its observations thereon and transmits

it to the next Administration, if any. The inquiry thus passes from

one Administration to another until the disposal of the article in-

quired about is established . The Administration which has effected

delivery to the addressee, or which cannot prove either delivery or

regular transmission to another Administration , as the case may be, shows the fact on the form and returns it to the Administration of

origin . 6. However if the Administration of origin or of destination requests

it, the inquiry is transmitted from the very first from office to office, following the same route as the article. In that case, the investigations are continued from the Administration of origin as far as the Administration of destination , observing the procedure indicated in Section 5 .
7. Any Administration may request, by a notification addressed to the International Bureau , that inquiries concerning its service be

Transmittal of inquiries.

transmitted to its central Administration or an office specially

designated . 8. The Form C 9 and the papers attached thereto shall in all cases

Ante, p. 3260.

be returned to the Administration of origin of the article inquired

about within the shortest period possible, and at the latest within a

period of three months, counting from the date of the inquiry. That period is extended to six months in relations with distant countries .

9. The foregoing provisions do not apply to cases of rifling of mails, shortage of a dispatch or other similar cases which involve more extended correspondence between the Administrations.

ARTICLE 142 .

Requests for information. Requests for information concerning ordinary or registered articles are treated in accordance with the provisions fixed by Articles 140 and 141 , respectively.

ARTICLE 143.

Inquiries and requests for information concerning articles mailed in another country.
In the case contemplated by Article 56 , Section 5 , of the Convention , the forms C8 and C9 concerning inquiries or requests for information are transmitted to the Administration of origin . The Form C 9 shall be accompanied by the certificate of mailing .
2. The Administration of origin shall be put in possession of the form within the periods prescribed by Article 56 of the Convention.

Ante, p. 3328. Ante, pp. 3258, 3260.

3372

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

ARTICLE 144.

Employment ofpostage stamps presumed to be fraudulent or of counterfeit impressions of stamping machines or printed indicia.

1. Subject expressly to the provisions of the legislation of each country, the following procedure is followed for establishing the use, forthe prepayment of postage , of fraudulent postage stamps or counterfeit impressions of stamping machines or printed indicia :

Ante, p. 3262.

(a) When the presence on any article of a fraudulent stamp (counterfeit or already used) or of counterfeit impressions of stamping machines or printed indicia is detected upon dispatch, the stamp or impression is not altered in any way, and the article, accompanied by a form in conformity with Form C 10 hereto appended , is addressed under official registered cover to the office of destination . A copy of the form is transmitted to the Administrations of the countries of origin and destination , for their information .

(b) The article is not delivered to the addressee, who is summoned to establish the violation , unless he pays the postage due, makes

known the name and address of the sender, and places at the

disposal of the post office, after having taken note of the con-

tents, either the entire article, if it is inseparable from the

Report of proceedings.
Ante, p. 3263.

evidence of the violation, or the part of the article (envelope, wrapper, part of letter, etc.) which contains the address and the impression or stamp reported as fraudulent . The result of the summons is set forth in a report of proceedings conforming to Form C 11 hereto appended, signed by the postal agent and

the addressee . If the latter refuses, the fact is stated in that document .

Transmittal to country of origin.

2. The report is transmitted , with supporting papers, under official registration , to the Administration of the country of origin, which takes the necessary action thereon in accordance with its

legislation .

3. Administrations whose legislation does not permit the procedure

contemplated in Section 1 , letters (a) and (b) above shall give notice of the fact to the International Bureau for the information of the

other Administrations .

TITLE V.

Ante, p. 3264. Details required.

Exchange of Mails.
SOLE CHAPTER.
ARTICLE 145.
Letter bills .
1. The letter bills accompanying the dispatches are in conformity with Form C 12 hereto appended . They are placed in blue envelopes bearing in large characters the indication Feuille d'avis (letter bill).
2. The dispatching office fills in the letter bill with all the details called for by the text, observing the following provisions :

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3373

(a) Table I : The presence of ordinary articles to be specially delivered is indicated by a line underscoring the corresponding notation ;

(b) Table II : Barring contrary agreement, the dispatching offices number the letter bills according to an annual series for each office of destination , when the dispatches are not made up every day. In that case, each dispatch takes a separate number, even if it is a question of a supplementary dispatch taking the same route or the same ship as the ordinary dispatch . For the first dispatch of each year, the bill shall bear, in addition to the serial number of the dispatch, that of the last dispatch of the preceding year. The name of the ship which carries the dispatch is indicated when the dispatching office is in a position to know it;

(c) Table III : Use may be made of one or more special lists conforming to Form C 13 hereto appended , either to replace Table V or to serve as a supplementary letter bill. The exclusive use of special lists is obligatory if the Administration of destination so requests . The lists in question shall indicate the same serial number as the one mentioned on the letter bill of the corre-

Ante, p. 3265.

sponding dispatch . When more than one list is employed, they shall be numbered . The number of registered articles which may be entered in one and the same special list is limited to 60;

(d) Table IV : If occasion arises, the number of empty sacks belonging to an Administration other than the one to which the dispatch is addressed shall be mentioned separately, with indication of the Administration . The open letters on official business and the various communications or recommendations

of the dispatching office relative to the exchange service are also mentioned in Table IV ;

(e) Table V : This Table is set aside for the entry of the registered articles when exclusive use is not made of special lists . In the event that the corresponding Administrations have agreed upon the bulk billing of registered articles in the letter bills, the total number of such articles shall be indicated in figures and spelled out in full . When the dispatch does not contain any registered articles, the note Néant (nil) is entered in Table V.

Creation of addi 3. Administrations may come to an agreement to create other tables tional tables, etc.
or headings in the letter bill, when they deem it necessary. They

may, in particular, arrange Tables V and VI in accordance with their

requirements . 4. When an exchange office has no articles to deliver to a corre-

Negative letterbills.

sponding office, and when, in relations between the Administrations

concerned, the letter bills are not numbered, by application of Section

2 , letter (b) , that office merely sends a negative letter bill in the next dispatch.

3374 Closed mails.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
5. When closed mails must be sent by means of ships which the intermediate Administration to which they belong does not regularly utilize for the transportation of its own mails , the weight of the letters and other articles shall be indicated in the address of such mails when the Administration charged with assuring the embarkation so requests.
ARTICLE 146 .

Transmission of registered articles.

Separate packets for registered articles, etc. 1. Registered articles , and , if occasion arises, the special lists men-
tioned in Article 145 , Section 2 , are made up into one or more separate

packets or sacks , which shall be suitably wrapped or inclosed and

sealed with wax or lead in such a manner as to protect the contents.

The registered articles are arranged in each packet according to their

entry numbers. When several special lists are used , each of them is

tied up with the registered articles to which it relates , and placed after

Inclusion in enve-

lope bill.

containing

letter

the first article in the bundle. 2. Subject to agreement between the Administrations concerned,
and when the volume of registered articles permits it, such articles

may be included in the special envelope containing the letter bill. The envelope shall be sealed .

3. In no case may registered articles be mixed with ordinary corre-

spondence.

4. Subject to agreement between the Administrations, registered

"A. O." (articles other than letters and post cards) which are sent in

separate sacks may be accompanied by special lists upon which they are entered in bulk .

5. Whenever possible, not more than 600 registered articles shall

be placed in a single sack.

6. To the outside of the packet of registered articles is attached,

by means of a crossed string, the special envelope containing the letter

bill ; when the registered articles are contained in a sack, the said

Labeling of supplementary sacks.

envelope is tied to the neck of such sack. 7. If there is more than one packet or sack of registered articles,
each of the supplementary packets or sacks is provided with a label

indicating the nature of the contents.

ARTICLE 147.

Ordinary articles.

Transmission of special-delivery articles.
1. Ordinary special-delivery articles are tied together in a special bundle having a label bearing the note Exprès (special delivery) in large characters and inserted by the exchange offices in the envelope containing the letter bill which accompanies the dispatch.
2. However, if the envelope must be affixed to the neck of the sack of registered articles (Article 146 , Section 6) , the bundle of specialdelivery articles is placed in the outside sack . The presence in the dispatch of articles of that kind is then announced by a slip placed inside the envelope containing the letter bill. The same procedure is followed when it has not been possible to inclose the special-delivery articles with the letter bill because of their number, form or dimensions.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3375

3. Registered special-delivery articles are arranged in order among the other registered articles , and the note Exprès (special delivery) is placed in the Observations column of Table V of the letter bill or of the special lists , opposite the entry concerning each of them. In case of bulk billing, the presence of registered articles to be specially delivered is indicated simply by the note Exprès (special delivery) in Table V of the letter bill.

Registered articles. Ante, pp. 3264, 3373.

ARTICLE 148.

Preparation of dispatches. 1. As a general rule, articles are sorted and tied in bundles accord-

Sorting; bundles.

ing to the nature of the correspondence , letters and post cards being included in the same bundle, and newspapers and periodicals being

made up into packets , apart from those containing ordinary prints . The bundles are designated by labels bearing the indication of the

office of destination or redispatch of the articles contained in the bundles . Articles of correspondence capable of being tied in bundles shall be faced in the same direction . Prepaid articles are separated

from those which are unprepaid or shortpaid , and the labels of bundles

of articles which are unprepaid or shortpaid are marked with the

T-stamp . 2. Letters bearing traces of opening, deterioration or damage shall
be marked with a mention of the fact and be marked with the date

Damaged, etc., letters.

stamp of the office which has detected it. 3. Money orders sent uninclosed are tied in a separate bundle,
which shall be included in a packet or sack containing registered

Money orders.

articles and, should the occasion arise , in the packet or sack of insured articles. If the dispatch does not contain either registered or insured

articles , the orders are placed in the envelope containing the letter

bill or tied up with the latter.

4.

Dispatches

are

inclosed

in

sacks

suitably

closed ,

sealed

with

Closing , etc. , of sacks.

wax or lead, and labeled . When use is made of string, it shall be

passed twice around the neck of the sack before being tied . The

imprints on the wax or lead seals shall reproduce, in very legible Latin characters, the name of the office of origin or an indication sufficient to permit that office to be determined .
5. The labels of the dispatches shall be of cloth, strong cardboard , parchment, or paper pasted on a wooden block ; in relations between

Labels, etc.

adjacent offices , use may be made of labels of strong paper. The labels are made up in the following colors :

Color designations.

(a) In vermillion red , for sacks containing registered articles ;

(b) In white, for sacks containing only ordinary letters and post cards ;

(c) In light blue, for sacks containing only ordinary other articles; (d) In green, for sacks containing only empty sacks returned to origin.

6. Unless the Administration of transit or of destination advises to the contrary, it is also permissible to use white labels with an

3376

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

oblique stripe two centimeters wide on each side , whose color corresponds with the contents of the sack.
7. Sacks containing mixed ordinary correspondence (letters, post cards and other articles) shall bear the white label.

8. The use of vermillion red , white and light blue labels is obliga-

Label data.

tory ; on the other hand , green labels are used only if the Administration of destination so demands .
9. The labels bear the indication, printed in small Latin characters ,

of the name of the dispatching office, and, in heavy Latin characters ,

the name of the office of destination, preceded by the words de (from)

and pour (for) respectively. In exchanges between distant countries

not effected by direct maritime services , the indications are completed

by the mention of the date of dispatch, the number of the mail , and

the port of debarkation , if the Administration concerned so requests.

10. The sacks shall indicate legibly, in Latin characters, the office or country of origin, and shall bear the note Postes (posts) or some other

similar note characterizing them as postal dispatches .

11. Intermediate offices shall not place any serial number on labels

Small or negative dispatches.

of sacks or packets of closed mails in transit. 12. Barring contrary agreement, dispatches of small size or negative
dispatches are simply wrapped in strong paper in such a manner as to

avoid all harm to the contents , then tied and sealed with wax or lead.

In case of lead sealing , such dispatches shall be prepared in such a way

that the string cannot be detached . When they contain nothing but

ordinary correspondence, they may be fastened by means of gummed

seals bearing the printed indication of the dispatching office or Administration. The addresses of the packets shall comply, in regard to

the printed indications and the colors , with the provisions laid down

by Sections 4 to 11 for the labels of sacks of mail .

13. When the number or volume of the mails requires the employ-

ment of more than one sack, separate sacks shall be used , as far as

possible :

Registered articles. Ante, p. 3374.
Weight limit.

(a) For letters and post cards ; (b) For other articles ; if occasion arises , separate sacks shall also
be used for small packets ; the labels of these latter sacks bear the note Petits paquets (small packets) .
14. The packet or sack of registered articles, tied together with the letter bill in the manner prescribed by Article 146 , Section 6 , is placed in one of the letter sacks or in a separate sack ; the outside sack shall in any case bear the red label. When there is more than one sack of registered articles, the additional sacks furnished with the red label , may be sent uninclosed .
15. The label of the sack or packet containing the letter bill, even if the latter is negative, is always marked with the letter F, traced in a conspicuous manner.
16. In accordance with the provisions of Section 5 , a red label shall not be used unless the sack contains registered articles.
17. No sack shall exceed 30 kilograms in weight.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3377

18. As far as possible, the exchange offices insert in their own dispatches for a given office , all dispatches of small dimensions (packets or sacks) which reach them for that office.
19. Unless the Administration of destination advises to the contrary, all packages of prints for the same addressee and for the same. address may be placed in one or more special sacks . In this case, besides the regular indications, the label should indicate the addressee of the articles. When registered articles are involved , they should be entered on a special list C 13 and separated from the other articles included in the dispatch .

Ante, p . 3265.

ARTICLE 149 .

Delivery of dispatches .

1. The delivery of dispatches between two corresponding offices is effected in accordance with the conditions prescribed by the Administrations concerned .

2. Only the sacks and packets designated by red labels need , at the

time of delivery, be subjected to complete verification of their closing

and condition. As for the other sacks and packets , their verification

is optional and they are always delivered in bulk. 3. Dispatches shall be delivered in good condition. However, a
dispatch may not be refused because of damage. When a dispatch is

Damage d dispatches.

received in bad condition by an intermediate office, it shall be placed ,

just as it is , under new packing. The office which effects the repack-

ing shall enter the indications of the original label on the new label and

place on the latter an imprint of its date stamp, preceded by the

note Remballé à .

(repacked at .

.).

ARTICLE 150.

Verification of dispatches .
1. When an intermediate office must proceed to repack a dispatch, it verifies the contents thereof if it presumes that they have not remained intact . It makes up a bulletin of verification conforming to Form C 14 hereto appended, complying with the provisions of Sections 4 to 6 hereafter. The bulletin is sent to the exchange office from which the dispatch was received ; a copy thereof is addressed to the office of origin and another is inserted in the repacked dispatch .
2. The office of destination verifies whether the dispatch is intact, and whether the entries on the letter bill, and on the special lists of registered articles , if any, are correct. In case of shortage of a dispatch, or of one or more sacks forming part thereof, of registered articles, of a letter bill , of a special list of registered articles , or when it is a question of any other irregularity, the fact is established at once by two employees . The latter make the necessary corrections on the bills or lists, taking care to strike out the erroneous items in such a manner as to allow the original entries to be recognized . Except in case of obvious error , the corrections prevail over the original statement .

Intermediate office. Ante, p. 3266. Office of destination.

3378

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

3. When an office receives letter bills or special lists which are not intended for it, it sends those documents to the office of destination ,

or, if its domestic regulations so prescribe , certified copies thereof.

Bulletin of verifica-

tion .

4. The facts established are reported by means of a bulletin of

verification to the office of origin of the dispatch, and, in case of actual shortage, to the last intermediate office, by the first mail available

after complete verification of the dispatch . The indications of the

Duplicate of bulletin ofverification.

bulletin shall specify as exactly as possible what sack, packet or article is involved .
5. A duplicate of the bulletin of verification is sent, under the same

conditions as the original, to the Administration to which the office

of origin of the dispatch belongs , when that Administration so demands.

When it is a question of important irregularities giving rise to the presumption of loss or rifling, the envelope or sack as well as the

string and the wax or lead seal which fastens the packet or sack of

registered articles are, except in case of proven impossibility, attached to the bulletin of verification addressed to the office of origin. The

same applies to the outer envelope or sack, with its string, label and wax or lead seal . In the exchange with Administrations which

Telegraphic notices.

require the sending of a duplicate, the exhibits mentioned above are attached to the duplicate .
6. In the cases contemplated by Sections 1 to 3 , the office of origin,

and the last intermediate exchange office , if any , may also be advised by telegram at the expense of the Administration sending the telegram.

Telegraphic notice shall be given whenever the dispatch shows eviTraces of rifling, etc. dent traces of rifling, in order that the dispatching or intermediate

office may proceed without any delay to investigate the matter, and ,

if need be, recommend to the preceding Administration, likewise by

When bulletin is unnecessary .

telegram, that the investigation be continued . 7. When the absence of a dispatch is the result of a failure of mails
to connect, or when it is duly explained on the waybill, the prepara-

tion of a bulletin of verification is not necessary, unless the dispatch

does not reach the office of destination by the next mail .

8. The sending of the duplicate provided for by Section 5 may be

postponed if it is presumed that the shortage of the dispatch is due to delay or misdirection .
9. Upon receipt of a dispatch, the absence of which had been

reported to the office of origin, and to the last intermediate exchange office, if any, it is necessary to send a second bulletin of verification

to the said offices announcing the receipt of that mail.

Return of bulletin.

10. The offices to which the bulletins of verification are addressed

return them as promptly as possible after having examined them, and after having entered thereon their observations, if any. If the

bulletins are not returned to the Administration of origin within the period of two months , counting from the date of their issue, they are

considered , until the contrary is proved , as duly accepted by the offices to which they were addressed . The period is extended to four months in relations with distant countries .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3379

Presumption of cor11. When a receiving office upon which the verification of the dis- rectness.

patch was incumbent has not sent to the office of origin, and to the

last intermediate exchange office , if any, by the first mail available

after verification , a bulletin reporting any irregularities , it is consid-

ered, until the contrary is proved, as having received the dispatch

and its contents . The same presumption exists in the case of irregu-

larities which have not been mentioned , or which have been reported

in an incomplete manner, in the bulletin of verification ; and the same

applies when the provisions of this Article concerning the formalities to be observed have not been fulfilled .
12. The bulletins of verification and the duplicates are transmitted under registered cover.

Transmittal of bulletins.

ARTICLE 151 .

Return of empty sacks .

1. Barring contrary agreement between the corresponding Administrations, sacks shall be returned empty, by the next mail, in a direct dispatch for the country to which such sacks belong . The number of sacks returned by each mail shall be entered under the Service Information heading of the letter bill.
2. The return is effected between the exchange offices designated for that purpose.

3. The empty sacks shall be rolled up in suitable bundles ; the label blocks, as well as the labels of cloth, parchment or other strong mate-

rial, if any, shall be placed inside the sacks . The bundles shall be

provided with a label indicating the name of the exchange office from

which the sacks were received , whenever they are returned through

the intermediary of another exchange office .

4. If the empty sacks to be returned are not too numerous, they

may be placed inside the sacks containing the correspondence ; other-

wise, they shall be placed in separate sealed sacks labeled with the

names of the exchange offices . The labels shall bear the note Sacs vides (empty sacks) .
5. In the event that the check made by an Administration on the return of sacks belonging to it shows that 10 percent of the total

Reimbursement for unreturned sacks.

number of sacks used during a year for the preparation of dispatches

have not been returned before the end of that year, the Administra-

tion which cannot prove the return of the empty sacks is bound to

reimburse the dispatching Administration for the value of the missing

sacks . Reimbursement shall also be effected if the number of missing

sacks does not reach 10 percent but exceeds 50 sacks.

6. Each Administration fixes , periodically, and uniformly for all kinds of sacks which are used by its exchange offices , an average value

Average value.

in francs, and communicates it to the Administrations concerned

through the intermediary of the International Bureau .

68706-52- PT. III-- 49

3380

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. TITLE VI.

Provisions Concerning Transit Charges. CHAPTER I.

Statistical Operations.

ARTICLE 152 .

Transit statistics .

Computation of transit charges.

1. The transit charges collectible under Articles 67 and following

Ante, p. 3333.

of the Convention are computed on the basis of statistics taken once

every three years , and alternately during the first fourteen or twenty-

eight days of the month of May or during the first fourteen or twentyeight days following the 14th of October .

2. The statistics are taken during the second year of each triennial

period . 3. Dispatches made up on board ships are included in the statistics
when they are unloaded during the statistical period. 4. The payments of transit charges for the period from the month
of September 1939 to December 31 , 1948 , shall be made on the basis

of the actual weight of the mails conveyed according to the conditions

fixed by special Agreements concluded between the countries con-

cerned . The statistics of May 1949 shall apply to the years 1949 and

1950 ; those of October-November 1952 , to the years 1951 , 1952 , and

Provisional annual payments.

1953 . 5. The annual payments of transit charges to be made on the basis
of a set of statistics shall be continued provisionally, until the accounts

Post, p. 3385.

made up in accordance with the following statistics are approved or considered as automatically accepted (Article 161 hereafter) . The

Revision of transitcharge accounts.

adjustment of the payments made provisionally is undertaken at that time.
6. When an important modification takes place in the routing of correspondence from one country to another, and if such modification

affects a period or periods amounting to a total of at least twelve

months , any Administration concerned may request a revision of the transit-charge accounts. In that case, the sums to be paid by the

dispatching Administrations are determined in accordance with the intermediate services actually employed , but the total weights which

serve as the basis for the new accounts shall normally be the same as those of the dispatches sent during the statistical period mentioned in Sections 1 to 3. When an agreement as to the manner of

division cannot be reached , special statistics shall be taken in order

to adjust the apportionment of those weights among the various services employed . No modification in the routing of correspondence

for a given country is considered as important unless it affects the accounts between the Administration of origin and the intermediate Administration concerned by more than 5,000 francs a year. If the modification exceeds that amount it has its effect on the accounts of

the Administration of origin with the Administrations which have

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3381

performed the transit previously and the Administrations which perform it subsequent to the modification which has occurred, even when the reduction of the accounts does not attain the prescribed minimum for certain Administrations . The request for a revision of the accounts, and, if need be, for special statistics , may be made when the modification in the routing of the correspondence in question has lasted at least nine months . However, the results of those statistics are not taken into consideration unless the period of twelve months is actually completed .
Basis for charges in 7. If, when special statistics are taken, it is found that the total special cases. weights of the mails exchanged between two Administrations and transported by a third Administration have increased by 100 per cent or diminished by 50 per cent as compared with the results of the last statistical period , and that the account of the third Administration would undergo , for that reason, a modification of more than 5,000 francs a year, the new weights established shall serve as the basis for the transit charges due to that Administration .
Demand for new 8. Likewise , when an intermediate Administration establishes, statistics; condition. during the six months following the statistics , that a difference of 20 per cent at least in the total weights conveyed exists between the dispatches sent by another Administration during the statistical period and the normal traffic, the Administration concerned may demand the taking of new statistics , if the accounts between two Administrations are affected by a modification of more than 5,000 francs a year .
ARTICLE 153.

Preparation and designation of closed mails during the statistical period.
1. During each statistical period , the exchange of correspondence in closed mails across the territory or by means of the services of one or more intermediate Administrations gives rise to the employment of separate sacks for letters and post cards and for other articles.
2. The number of sacks utilized for the preparation of a dispatc.h must be reduced to the strict minimum .
3. The obligation of preparing separate sacks for letters and post cards and for other articles does not apply to dispatches whose total gross weight does not exceed 3 kg. , i . e. , the average weight considered in the accounts for light sacks by virtue of Article 161 hereafter. Each Administration therefore has the option, in such cases , of in'cluding all the articles in a single sack, which is then counted as an L. C. sack. It is understood , however, that such a dispatch may not contain any other sack giving rise to the payment of transit charges .
4. When the volume of the mails permits, the separate sacks of articles of all kinds (L. C. and A. O. ) for one and the same destination shall be inclosed in a single collective sack.
5. By exception to the provisions of Articles 146 and 147, every Administration has the option, during the statistical period , of including registered and special-delivery articles other than letters and post cards in one of the sacks intended for other articles , mentioning

Ante, p. 3374. Optional inclusions.

3382

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Ante, p. 3374. Statistical label.
Empty sacks, etc. Ante, p. 3334. Collective sack.

that fact on the letter bill ; but if, in accordance with Articles 146 and 147 , such articles are included in a sack of letters , they are considered as letters insofar as the statistics are concerned.
6. During the statistical period all dispatches exchanged in transit shall bear, in addition to the ordinary labels , a special label bearing in large letters the note Statistique (statistics) , followed by the indication 5 kilograms , 15 kilograms , or 30 kilograms , according to the division of weight (Article 154, Section 1 , hereafter) . The statistical label shall also bear the note L. C. or A. O. , as the case may be.
7. In regard to sacks which contain nothing but empty sacks , or correspondence exempt from all transit charges (Article 68 of the Convention) , the note Statistique is followed by the word Exempt.
8. When the sacks composing the dispatch are inclosed in a collective sack, the latter shall be provided with the special Statistique label , on which the note S. C. is added . The indications concerning the statistics which appear on the inside sacks are not repeated on the collective sack.

ARTICLE 154.

Ante, p. 3267.

Fixing the number of sacks and weight of closed mails .
1. For dispatches which give rise to the payment of transit charges , the dispatching exchange office makes use of a special letter bill conforming to Form C 15 hereto appended . It enters on that letter bill the number of sacks, dividing them , if occasion arises, into the following classes:

Description of the sacks 1

Number of sacks whose gross weight

does not exceed 5 kg. (light sacks)
2

exceeds 5 kg. exceeds 15

but not 15 kg. but not 30

kg. (medium kg. (heavy

sacks)

sacks)

3

4

L. C.

A. O.

Number of sacks exempt from transit charges

Number exempt

from transit charges.

2. The number of sacks exempt from transit charges shall be the.

total of those bearing the indication Statistique- Exempt in accordance

Verification .

with the provisions of Article 153 , Section 7 . 3. The entries in the letter bills are verified by the exchange office
of destination. If that office finds an error in the numbers entered , it

corrects the bill and immediately reports the error to the dispatching

Ante, p. 3268.

exchange office by means of a bulletin of verification conforming to Form C 16 hereto appended . However, in regard to the weight of a sack, the statement of the dispatching exchange office is considered as

valid unless the actual weight exceeds the maximum weight of the class in which that sack has been entered by more than 250 grams.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3383

ARTICLE 155.

Preparation of statements for closed mails.

1. As soon as possible after the close of statistical operations , the

offices of destination prepare, in as many copies as there are Adminis-

trations concerned , including that of the country of origin , statements conforming to Form C 17 hereto appended , and transmit such state-

Ante, p. 3269.

ments to the exchange offices of the dispatching Administration to be

indorsed with their acceptance. Such offices, after having accepted

the statements, transmit them to their central Administration, which

distributes them among the Administrations concerned. Procedure if forms
2. If the Forms C 17 have not reached the exchange offices of the notreceived, etc.
Administration of origin , or if they have not arrived there in sufficient

numbers, within a period of three months (four months in exchanges

with distant countries) , counting from the date of dispatch of the last mail to be included in the statistics, the offices themselves make

up the said forms in sufficient numbers in accordance with their own

records, and enter on each one of them the note : Les relevés C 17 du

bureau destinataire ne sont pas parvenus dans le délai réglementaire (The Forms C 17 from the office of destination did not arrive within

Ante, p. 3269.

the prescribed period) . They then transmit them to their central Administration, which distributes them among the Administrations concerned .

ARTICLE 156 .

List of closed mails exchanged in transit.
1. As soon as possible , and at the latest within a period of three months after each statistical period, except in cases where the route could not be determined within that period , the Administrations which have sent dispatches in transit send a list of such dispatches on a form conforming to Form C 18 hereto appended to the various Administrations whose intermediary they have employed .
2. If the list indicates dispatches in transit which, in accordance with the provisions of Article 153 , do not give rise to the preparation of a Form C 17, it shall bear an explanatory note, such as: Sacs vides (empty sacks), Correspondances exemptes (correspondence exempt from transit charges) .
ARTICLE 157 .

Exchange of lists.
Ante, p. 3270. Explanatory notes.

Closed mails exchanged with warships.
1. It is incumbent upon the Administrations of countries to which warships belong to make up the Forms C 17 relative to the mails dispatched or received by such vessels . Mails dispatched during the statistical period and destined for warships shall bear, on labels , the date of dispatch.
2. In case that such dispatches are forwarded , the forwarding Administration so advises the Administration of the country to which the vessel belongs .

Ante, p. 3269.

3384

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 158. Transit bulletin.

1. When the route to be followed and the transportation services

to be utilized for mails dispatched during the statistical period are unknown or uncertain, the Administration of origin shall, at the

Ante, p. 3271.

request of the Administration of destination , prepare for each dispatch a bulletin , green in color, conforming to Form C 19 hereto

appended. The Administration of origin may also send such bulletin

without a formal request from the Administration of destination, if

circumstances appear to require it.

2. The letter bills of the dispatches which give rise to the preparation of the said bulletin shall be marked at the top with the conspicuous

notation : Bulletin de transit (transit bulletin) . The same notation ,

Ante, p . 3381 . Sending ofbulletin.

underlined in red pencil, is entered on the special Statistique (statistical) labels mentioned in Article 153 .
3. The transit bulletin shall be sent in open mail, together with the

dispatches to which it relates , to the different services which partici-

pate in their transportation . In each country concerned , the ex-

change offices of entry and departure , to the exclusion of all other intermediate offices , enter on the bulletin the information concerning

the transit effected by them. The last intermediate exchange office sends the bulletin C 19 to the office of destination . The bulletin is

Ante, p. 3269.

then returned by that office to the office of origin in support of the Form C 17. When a transit bulletin whose issuance was requested or is announced at the top of the letter bill is missing, the office of destination is bound to make inquiry about it without any delay.

ARTICLE 159.

Ante, p. 3268 et seq.

Exceptions to Articles 154 , 155, and 158.
1. Each country has the option of notifying the other countries, through the intermediary of the International Bureau , that the bulletins of verification , Form C 16 , the statements , Form C 17 , and the transit bulletins , Form C 19, are to be addressed to its central Administration .
2. The latter, in that case, takes the place of the exchange offices for the preparation of the statements C 17 , in conformity with the provisions of Article 155 , Section 2.

ARTICLE 160.

Extraordinary services.
The service maintained for the accelerated land conveyance of the so-called India Mail, and the special motor services from Palestine or Syria to Iraq, are alone considered as extraordinary services giving rise to special transit charges .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3385

CHAPTER II.

Accounting. Adjustment of Accounts. ARTICLE 161 .

Transit-charge account.

1. For the preparation of transit accounts, the light, medium or heavy sacks , as defined by Article 154, are considered in the accounts

Ante, p. 3382.

as having their average weights of 3 , 12 or 24 kilograms respectively. Basis for individual
2. The total amounts of credit for the closed mails are multiplied accounts. by 26 or 13 , as the case may be, and the product serves as the basis for individual accounts showing, in francs, the annual payments due to each Administration.
3. In the event that the multiplier 26 or 13 does not correspond to the normal traffic, the Administrations concerned come to an agreement for the adoption of another multiplier which is valid for the years to which the statistics apply.
4. The duty of making up the accounts is incumbent upon the creditor Administration , which transmits them to the debtor Administration .

5. In order to take account of the weight of the sacks and packing,

as well as of the classes of correspondence exempt from all transit charges in accordance with the provisions of Article 68 of the Con-

Ante, p. 3334.

vention, the total amount of the account for closed mails is reduced

by 10 percent. 6. The individual accounts are prepared in duplicate on forms in
conformity with Form C 20 hereto appended , on the basis of the statements C 17. They are sent to the dispatching Administration

Accounts in duplicate.
Ante, p. 3272.
Ante, p. 3269.

as soon as possible, and at the latest within a period of ten months

following the expiration of the statistical period , accompanied by the relative statements C 17.
7. If the Administration which has sent the individual account

Automatic ance .

accept-

has not received any corrective observation within an interval of

four months, counting from the date of transmission, that account is considered as automatically accepted.

ARTICLE 162.

General annual account. Intervention of the International Bureau.
1. The general account covering transit charges is prepared annually by the International Bureau ; exceptionally, the Administrations may, should they deem it advisable , agree to settle their accounts directly between themselves .
2. As soon as the individual accounts between two Administrations are approved or considered as automatically accepted (Article 161 , Section 7) , each of the Administrations transmits without delay, to the International Bureau, an account conforming to Form C 21 hereto appended and indicating the total amounts of such accounts . At the same time, a copy of the account is addressed to the Administration concerned.

Transmission . Ante, p. 3273.

3386

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Ante, p. 3380.

3. Centimes are ignored in the balances. 4. In case of difference between the corresponding items furnished by two Administrations, the International Bureau invites them to come to an agreement and to communicate to it the sums definitely arrived at.
5. When only one of the Administrations has furnished the Form C 21 , the amounts indicated by that Administration are valid.
6. In the case provided for by Article 161 , Section 7 , the accounts shall bear the note : Aucune observation de l'Administration débitrice n'est parvenue dans le délai réglementaire (No observation received from the debtor Administration within the prescribed period ) .
7. If two Administrations agree to make a special settlement, their Forms C 21 bear the note : Compte réglé à part - à titre d'information (Account settled separately-for purposes of information) ; and are not included in the general annual account .
8. The International Bureau prepares, at the end of each year, on the basis of the forms which have reached it up to that time and which are considered as automatically accepted , a general annual account of transit charges. If occasion arises, it complies with the rule laid down by Article 152 , Section 5 , for annual payments .
9. The account indicates :

Transmission.

(a) The debit and credit of each Administration ; (b) The debit or credit balance of each Administration ; (c) The sums to be paid by the debtor Administrations ; (d) The sums to be received by the creditor Administrations. 10. The International Bureau proceeds by way of compensation in such a manner as to restrict to the minimum the number of payments to be made. 11. The general annual accounts shall be transmitted to the Administrations by the International Bureau as soon as possible, and at the latest before the expiration of the first quarter of the year following that of their preparation.

ARTICLE 163 .

Settlement of transit charges.

Ante, p. 3380.

1. The balance resulting from the general annual account of the International Bureau or from special settlements , including, if occasion arises , the adjustment provided for in Article 152 , Section 5 , is paid by the debtor Administration to the creditor Administration in one of the following manners :
(a) At the choice of the debtor Administration , in gold or by means of checks or drafts fulfilling the conditions prescribed by Section 2 hereafter and payable at sight in the capital or in a commercial city of the creditor country ; or
(b) Following agreement between the two Administrations , through the intermediary of a bank utilizing the transfer service of the Bank for International Settlements at Basel , or by any other means ;

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3387

(c) According to the provisions of special monetary agreements which may exist between the countries to which the Administrations in question belong.

2. In case of payment by means of checks or drafts, according to Section 1 (a) , such checks or drafts are issued in money of a country

Payment .

where the central bank of issue or other official issuing institution

buys and sells gold or gold currency for national money at fixed rates

determined by law or by virtue of an agreement with the Govern-

ment . If the moneys of several countries fulfill those conditions , it

is incumbent upon the creditor country to designate the money which

is convenient for it. Any losses or profits arising from an unforeseen

fall or rise in the gold parity of the currency in question occurring up

to and including the date of receipt of the check or draft are shared

equally by the two Administrations . However, in case of delay in

sending the check or draft issued , the debtor Administration is re-

sponsible for losses resulting from any unjustified lapse of time between

the issue by the bank and the mailing of the check or draft ; likewise

half the actual profits realized shall be credited to that Administration .

In all such cases , differences not exceeding 5 per cent are ignored ,

the conditions of payment fixed by the present Article apply to the

settlement of differences, and the periods allowed for settlement begin with the date when the check or draft is received .

3. When two countries have come to an agreement on the subject,

checks or drafts may also be issued in the money of the creditor country, even when such money does not meet the conditions set

forth in Section 2. In that case, the balance is converted at the gold par rate into the money of a country which meets the conditions set forth in Section 2. The result thus obtained is then converted into

the money of the debtor country and thence into the money of the creditor country according to the official buying and selling rates respectively prevailing in the debtor country on the day of purchase of the check or draft, or on the preceding day. The creditor country may also specify that the conversion of the balance expressed in gold shall be made in accordance with the gold value fixed for its currency

by the International Monetary Fund . When an important variation occurs in the par or market prices which were used as basis for the

conversion, the provisions set forth in Section 2 , third and following sentences, shall apply, except in case of a rise or fall due to a revaluation or devaluation of the money of the creditor country.

4. When the amount of the balance exceeds 5000 francs , the date

of sending of a check or draft , the date of its purchase and its amount

shall, if the creditor Administration so requests, be communicated to it by telegram at its own expense.
5. The expenses of payment are borne by the debtor Administration, with the exception of extraordinary expenses , such as the clearing fees, imposed by the creditor country.
6. The payment above mentioned shall be made as soon as possible , and at the latest before the expiration of a period of four months,

Expenses of payment.
Period of payment.

counting from the date of transmission of the account by the Inter68706-52- PT. III- -50

3388

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Arrearage.

national Bureau, or of the invitation to pay sent by the creditor Administration to the debtor Administration when it is a question of accounts settled separately. That period may be extended to five months in relations between distant countries . After those periods have expired, the sums due bear interest at the rate of 5 percent a year, counting from the date of expiration of the said periods.
7. If payment has not been effected one year after the expiration of the periods fixed by Section 6 , it is permissible for the creditor Administration, in the case of sums for which the account is made up by the International Bureau, to so advise the said Bureau, which invites the debtor Administration to pay within a period which shall not exceed four months .
8. If payment of the sums contemplated in Section 7 is not effected at the expiration of that new period , the International Bureau enters them in the following general annual account, to the credit of the creditor Administration . In this case, compound interest is due ; i . e., the interest is added to the principal at the end of each year, until the time of payment.
9. In the event of application of the provisions of Section 8 , the
general annual account in question and those for the four years following, shall not, insofar as possible, contain, in the balances shown on the compensation table, any amounts to be paid by the defaulting Administration to the creditor Administration concerned .

TITLE VII .

Various Provisions .

SOLE CHAPTER.

ARTICLE 164 .

Ante, p. 3274. Options.

International reply coupons.
1. International reply coupons conform to Form C 22 hereto appended. They are printed, on paper having in the watermark the letters UPU in large characters, through the good offices of the International Bureau , which furnishes them to the Administrations at cost.
2. Each Administration has the option :

(a) Of giving the coupons a distinctive perforation which does not interfere with the reading of the text and is not of such a nature as to hinder verification of the coupons ;

(b) Of modifying, by hand or by means of a printing process, the selling price indicated on the coupons.

Value.

3. In accounts between Administrations, the value of the coupons

is calculated at the rate of 28 centimes per unit. Annual settlement. 4. Barring contrary agreement, exchanged coupons are sent an-

nually, at the latest within a period of three months after the expira-

tion of the year, to the Administrations which have issued them, with

an indication of their total number and value on a statement in accord-

Ante, p. 3275.

ance with Form C 23 hereto appended .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3389

5. As soon as two Administrations have come to an agreement as to the number of coupons exchanged in their reciprocal relations, they each make up and transmit to the International Bureau a statement conforming to Form C 24 hereto appended , indicating the debit or credit balance, if such balance exceeds 25 francs and if special settlement has not been provided for between the two countries . At the same time, a copy of Form C 24 is sent to the Administration concerned . If no agreement is reached within a period of six months , the creditor Administration prepares its account and sends it to the International Bureau.
6. In the event that only one of the Administrations furnishes its statement, the indications of the latter are considered as valid .
7. The balance in which centimes are ignored, is included by the International Bureau in an annual account and payment takes place under the conditions prescribed by Article 163.
8. When the annual balance between two Administrations does not exceed 25 francs, the debtor Administration is released from all payment .
ARTICLE 165 .

Procedure. Ante, p. 3276.
Small balances.

Postal identity cards.

1. Each Administration designates the offices or services which issue postal identity cards .
2. Such cards are made up on forms in conformity with Form C 25
hereto appended. The forms are furnished at cost by the International Bureau.
3. At the time of application , the applicant submits his photograph and proves his identity. The Administrations fix the necessary requirements so that cards may not be issued until after careful investigation as to the identity of the applicant.
4. The employee enters the application in a register ; fills in with ink, and in Latin characters , by hand or typewriter and without erasures or writing over, all the information required to complete the card and affixes the photograph to it in the designated place ; applies , half on the photograph and half on the card , a postage stamp representing the charge collected ; and cancels that stamp by means of a very clear impression of the date stamp . He then also applies an impression of the stamp or his official seal in such a manner that it appears both on the upper part of the photograph and on the card , then reproduces that impression on the third page of the card , signs the latter, and delivers it to the party concerned after obtaining his signature.
5. When the appearance of the holder becomes changed to such an extent that it no longer agrees with the photograph or description , the card shall be renewed.
6. Each country reserves the right to issue cards for the international service in accordance with the rules applicable to cards used in its domestic service .

Ante, p. 3277. Requirements.

7. Administrations may attach a leaflet to Form C 25 to receive such special annotations as may be required in the domestic service .

3390

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

ARTICLE 166 .

Mails exchanged with warships .

1. Notice shall be given , as far as possible in advance, to the intermediate Administrations , of the establishment of an exchange of closed mails between a Postal Administration and naval divisions or

warships of the same nationality, or between one naval division or
warship and another naval division or warship of the same nationality. Wording of address,
2. The address of such dispatches is worded as follows:

From the office of the

division of

For at the
at

(nationality)

(nationality)

naval)

(name of division)

ship

(name of ship)

>(Country)

or

From the

naval)

division of

(nationality)

(name of division)

at From the

ship

(Country)

(nationality) at For the office of

(name of ship)

or

From the division of at From the at

(nationality)

naval)

(name of division)

(nationality)

ship

(name of ship)

(Country)

the
division of For
at the
at

(nationality)

naval

(name of division)

(nationality)

ship

(name of ship)

(Country)

Forwarding, etc.

3. Dispatches addressed to or coming from naval divisions or warships are forwarded , in the absence of any indication of a special route in the address , by the most rapid routes , and under the same conditions as dispatches exchanged between post offices.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3391

4. The captain of a mail steamer carrying mails addressed to a

naval division or warship holds them at the disposal of the com-

manding officer of the division or vessel of destination, in case the

latter should request their delivery en route . 5. If the ships are not at the place of destination when the dis-

Retention, etc.

patches addressed to them arrive there, such dispatches are held at

the post office until they are withdrawn by the addressee or forwarded

to another point . Redirection may be requested either by the Postal

Administration of origin or by the commanding officer of the naval

division or vessel of destination ; or, finally, by a Consul of the same

nationality . 6. Those of the dispatches in question which bear the note: Aux soins du Consul d ------ (in care of the Consul of

Dispatches in care of Consul.
---- )

are delivered to the Consulate indicated . Later on, they may, at the

request of the Consul, be turned back to the postal service and

returned to the place of origin or forwarded to another destination . 7. Dispatches addressed to a warship are considered as being in drDesissepdatotcahwearsshaidp-.

transit up to their delivery to the commanding officer of the ship ,

even if they were originally addressed in care of a post office or to a

Consul charged with serving as intermediate forwarding agent ; they are not, therefore, considered as having arrived at their address as

long as they have not been delivered to the warship of destination .

ARTICLE 167.

Prepayment bulletins . Accounting for customs charges, etc.

1. The accounting for customs charges, etc. , paid out by each

Administration on behalf of another, is effected by means of individual monthly accounts conforming to Form C 26 hereto appended ,

Ante, p. 3278.

which are made up by the debtor Administration in currency of the

creditor country. The prepayment bulletins are entered in the alpha-

betical order of the offices which have advanced the charges , and in

the numerical order which has been given them . 2. If the two Administrations concerned also assure the parcel- mIanclliuscioen .ofregular-

post service in their reciprocal relations, they may, in the absence

of contrary notification , include in the accounts of prepayment bulle-

tins relative to the latter service those relative to the regular-mail service .
3. The individual account, accompanied by the prepayment bulle-

Transmission of accounts .

tins, is transmitted to the creditor Administration , at the latest by

the end of the month following the one to which it relates . No

negative accounts are prepared . 4. Verification of the accounts takes place under the conditions

Verification.

fixed by the Regulations of the Agreement concerning money orders. 5. The accounts give rise to a special settlement . Each Admin-
istration may, however, request that such accounts be appended either to the money-order accounts or to the parcel-post accounts CP 16 or the collect-on-delivery accounts R 5.

Settlement.

3392

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ARTICLE 168.

Ante, p. 3319. Ante, p. 3251 et seq.

Forms for the use of the public.
In view of the application of the provisions of Article 33 , Section 2 , of the Convention , the following Forms are considered as forms for the use of the public:
C 1 (customs label) , C 2 (customs declaration) , C 3 (prepayment bulletin) , C 5 (return receipt) , C 6 (forwarding envelope) , C 7 (request for return , change of address , or modification of C. O. D.
charge) , C 8 (inquiry about an ordinary article not received) , C 9 (inquiry about a registered article , etc.) , C22 (international reply coupon) , C25 (postal identity card) .

ARTICLE 169 .
Period for retention of documents. The records of the international service shall be kept for a minimum period of two years, counting from the day following the date to which such documents refer.
ARTICLE 170.
Telegraphic address . 1. Administrations make use, for telegraphic communications which they exchange among themselves, of the telegraphic address Postgen, followed by the name of the city in which the central Administration is located. 2. For communications addressed to offices other than the Central Administration in the country of destination , the telegraphic address shall be Postbur, followed by the name of the city to which the telegram is addressed.
TITLE VIII.

International Bureau.
SOLE CHAPTER.
ARTICLE 171 .
Congresses and Conferences. 1. The International Bureau prepares the agenda for Congresses and Conferences . It provides for the printing and distribution of the necessary documents . Director of Bureau; 2. The director of the Bureau attends the sessions of Congresses and Conferences and takes part in the discussions , without the power of voting.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3393

ARTICLE 172.

Information . Requests for modification ofthe Acts. 1. The International Bureau shall hold itself at all times at the disposal of the Executive and Liaison Committee and of the members of the Union, to furnish them, on questions relative to the service , such information as they may require . 2. It examines requests for modification or interpretation of the provisions governing the Union, and makes known the results of consultations.
ARTICLE 173.

Publications .

1. The International Bureau publishes , with the aid of the docu- Special journal.

ments which are placed at its disposal, a special journal in the

English, Arabic, Chinese, Spanish, French, and Russian languages . 2. It publishes , in accordance with the information furnished under
the provisions of Article 181 hereafter, an official digest of all informa-

Official digest of information.
Post, p. 3396.

tion of general interest concerning the execution of the Convention

and its Regulations in each country.

3. Similar digests concerning the execution of the Agreements are

published at the request of the Administrations participating in the Agreements .
4. The International Bureau also publishes , with the aid of the

Other publications.

information furnished by the Administrations :

(a) A digest of information concerning the organization of the Administrations of the Union and their domestic services ;

(b) A digest of the rates applied by the Administrations in their domestic services ;

(c) A list of prohibited articles ; (d) A list of steamship lines ; (e) A list of distances in kilometers on land routes;

(f) A list of distant countries and countries assimilated thereto ;

(g) A table of equivalents .

5. Any modifications made in the various documents enumerated in Sections 2 to 4 are communicated by circular, bulletin or any suitable means .
6. The documents published by the International Bureau are distributed among the Administrations in proportion to the number

Communication of modifications.
Distribution of documents.

of contributive units assigned to each of them by application of Article 27 of the Convention . Additional copies of the documents

Ante, p. 3317.

requested by Administrations are paid for separately, at cost price. 7. The International Bureau is charged with publishing an alpha- Postal gazetteer of world .
betical gazeteer of all the post offices in the world, supplemented by general information printed in the languages listed in Section 1 and
mentioning, among other items , the services in which each country

3394

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

1

participates . The gazeteer is kept up to date by means of supplements, or in any other manner which the International Bureau deems
convenient. The gazeteer is distributed among the Administrations at the rate of 10 copies for each contributive unit assigned to each of them by application of Article 27 of the Convention . Additional copies requested by Administrations are paid for separately, at cost price.
8. The gazeteer may be sold to the public by the International Bureau, at a commercial price to be established by the latter.

ARTICLE 174.
Annual report. The International Bureau makes an annual report of its operations, which it forwards to the Executive and Liaison Committee , to be sent by the latter to all the Administrations .
ARTICLE 175.
Official language of the International Bureau. The official language of the International Bureau is the French language.
ARTICLE 176.

International reply coupons . Postal identity cards. The International Bureau is charged with arranging for the manufacture of international reply coupons and postal identity cards, and with supplying them to the Administrations on request .
ARTICLE 177.

Balancing and settlement of accounts.

1. The International Bureau is charged with effecting the balancing

and settlement of accounts of all kinds relating to the international

postal service between Administrations which express their desire to

Telegraphic accounts.

use its intermediary. The latter come to an agreement to that effect between themselves and with the Bureau.
2. At the request of the Administrations concerned , telegraphic accounts may also be transmitted to the International Bureau, to be

Special accounts.

included in the striking of balances. 3. Each Administration reserves the right to make up , at its option,

special accounts for various branches of the service , and to settle them, at its convenience, with its correspondents , without employing
the intermediary of the International Bureau , to which it merely
gives notice of those branches of the service and the countries for which it requests its offices. Use ofintermediary.
4. Administrations which employ the intermediary of the International Bureau in balancing and settling accounts may cease to use

that intermediary three months after having given notice thereof.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3395

ARTICLE 178.

Preparation of accounts.
1. When the individual accounts have been examined and agreed upon, the debtor Administrations transmit to the creditor Adminis-

Transmission of acknowledgment of bal-
ance.

trations, for each class of operations , an acknowledgment , stated in francs and centimes , of the amount of the balance of the two detailed

accounts, with indication of the subject of the credit and the period to which it relates .
2. Barring contrary agreement, an Administration which desires, for its own accounting purposes, to have general accounts, shall make them up itself, and submit them to the corresponding Administration for acceptance.
3. Administrations may agree to apply another system in their relations .
4. Each Administration addresses to the International Bureau

General accounts. Credit tables.

monthly, or quarterly, if special circumstances render it desirable, a

table indicating its credit resulting from the detailed accounts, as well

as the total of the sums due to it by each of the contracting Adminis-

trations ; each credit figuring in the table shall be justified by an

acknowledgment from the debtor Administration .

5. The table shall reach the International Bureau by the 19th of

each month or of the first month of each quarter at the latest . Other-

wise, it is included only in the settlement of the following month or

quarter. 6. The International Bureau ascertains, by comparing
acknowledgments, whether the tables are correct. Notice of necessary correction is given to the Administrations concerned.

the any

Examination by Bureau.

7. The debit of each Administration to another is carried over to a

recapitulatory table ; the sum of the amounts entered in the various columns of the table constitutes the total debit balance of each Administration .

ARTICLE 179.

General balance sheet.

1. The International Bureau assembles the tables and recapitulations into a general balance sheet indicating :
(a) The total debit and credit of each Administration ; (b) The debit or credit balance of each Administration ; (c) The sums to be paid by the debtor Administrations, and the
distribution of those sums among the creditor Administrations.
2. As far as possible, it sees that each Administration does not have to make more than one or two separate payments in order to settle its obligations.
3. However, an Administration which habitually finds a sum exceeding 50,000 francs due to it by another Administration has the right to claim payments on account.

3396

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

4. Such remittances are entered , by both the creditor and the

Classification of ac knowledgments.

debtor Administrations, at the bottom of the tables which they address to the International Bureau.
5. The acknowledgments transmitted to the International Bureau with the tables are classified according to Administrations. They serve as the basis for settlement of the accounts of each of the Administrations concerned . In the balance sheet shall appear:

(a) The sums relative to the special accounts concerning the various exchanges ;

(b) The total of the sums resulting from all the special accounts relating to each of the Administrations concerned ;
(c) The totals of the sums due to all the creditor Administrations for each branch of the service , as well as their grand total. The latter must be equal to the debit appearing in the recapitulation.

6. At the bottom of the balance sheet , the balance is struck between the debit and the credit resulting from the tables addressed by the Administrations to the International Bureau. The net amount of the debit or credit must be equal to the debit or credit balance carried into the general balance sheet. Moreover, the sheet indicates the Administrations in favor of which the payment is to be effected by the debtor Administration.
7. The balance sheets shall be sent to the Administrations concerned by the International Bureau by the 22d of each month at the latest.
ARTICLE 180.

Ante, p. 3386. Small balances.

Payment.
1. Payment of the sums due, by virtue of a settlement, by one Administration to another Administration , shall be made as soon as possible, and at the latest fifteen days after receipt of the balance sheet by the debtor Administration . The provisions of Article 163 , Section 1 , are applicable in regard to the other conditions of payment. The provisions of Section 6 of the said Article govern in case of nonpayment of the balance within the period fixed .
2. Debit or credit balances not exceeding 500 francs may be carried over to the settlement for the following month ; provided the Administrations concerned are in monthly communication with the International Bureau. Mention is made of such carrying over in the recapitulations and in the settlement accounts for the creditor and debtor Administrations . The debtor Administration , should occasion arise, sends the creditor Administration an acknowledgment of the sum due , to be carried over to the next table.
ARTICLE 181.
Communications to be addressed to the International Bureau .
1. Administrations shall communicate to one another, through the intermediary of the International Bureau , a triplicate collection of their postage stamps and specimen impressions of their stamping

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3397

machines, with indication of the date from which postage stamps of previous issues cease to be valid.
2. They shall also communicate to the International Bureau:

(a) The annotation which they have adopted , by application of Article 106 , Section 4 , as the equivalent of the expression Taxe perçue or Port payé;

Ante, p. 3352.

(b) The reduced rates which they have adopted by virtue of Article 6 of the Convention , and an indication of the relations to which such rates are applicable ;

Ante, p. 3310.

(c) An indication of the surcharges which they collect as extraordinary transportation charges by virtue of Articles 39 and 69 of the Convention, as well as a list of the countries to which such surcharges apply, and , if necessary, a designation of the services which give rise to their collection ;
(d) All necessary information concerning their customs or other regulations , as well as the prohibitions or restrictions concerning the importation and transit of mail articles in their services ;

Ante, pp. 3322, 3334.

(e) The number of customs declarations , if any , required for articles subject to customs examination addressed to their countries , and the languages in which such declarations may be worded ;

(f) Information as to whether or not they admit, in articles prepaid at the letter or sample rate, articles liable to customs duty ;

(g) A list of distances in kilometers on land routes followed in their countries by dispatches in transit ;

(h) A list of the steamship lines whose ships leave their ports and are used for the conveyance of mails, with indication of the routes , distances , transit times between the port of embarkation

and each of the subsequent ports of call, frequency of the service, and the countries to which the maritime transit charges are to be paid if use is made of the steamships ;

(i) Their list of distant countries and countries assimilated thereto ;

(j) Their decision in regard to the option of applying or not applying certain general provisions of the Convention and Regulations ;

(k) Pertinent information concerning their organization and domestic services ;

(1) Their domestic postage rates.

3. Notice of any modification in the information contemplated in Notice of change.

Section 2 shall be given without delay. 4. Administrations shall furnish the International Bureau with two
copies of the documents which they publish, in regard to both the

Documents to be furnished Bureau.

domestic and the international services.

ARTICLE 182 .

Postal statistics.
1. On the basis of information collected by means of questionnaires which are transmitted to the Administrations at least four months

3398

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

before the beginning of the year to which they relate, the International Bureau publishes :

(a) Every three years :

(1) A "Complete Postal Service Statistics" consisting of five parts : I. General ; II . Organization of the Postal Service ; III . Traffic ; IV. Undeliverable Correspondence ; and V. Financial Statement ;

(2) A "Statistics of Dispatches in the International Postal Service" ;

(b) Every intermediate year , when the publications mentioned under

(a) do not appear : An " Abridged Postal Statistics," dealing only

with Part III. Traffic, and Part V. Financial Statement.

Periodical state-

ments .

2. Service operations which give rise to recording form the subject

of periodical statements based on the actual records .
Counting ofarticles. 3. For all other operations , a count is made each year of articles of

all kinds, without distinction between letters , post cards, commercial papers , prints , samples of merchandise, and small packets ; and, at

least once every three years , a count is made of the different classes

of correspondence . Each Administration itself fixes the time and

duration of such counts .

Intermediate esti-

mate.

4. In the interval which elapses between special statistics, the num-

bers of the different classes are estimated in accordance with propor-

Questionnaires .

tional figures taken from the preceding special statistics . 5. The International Bureau prepares and distributes the statistical
questionnaires to be filled in by each Administration . It furnishes , to Administrations which so request, all necessary information concerning the rules to be followed in order to assure uniformity in statistical operations.

ARTICLE 183 .

Limitation. Supervision.
Repayments.

Expenses ofthe International Bureau. 1. The ordinary expenses of the International Bureau shall not exceed the sum of 500,000 francs a year. 2. The Swiss Postal Administration supervises the expenses of the International Bureau , makes the necessary advances, and makes up the annual account which is communicated to the other Administrations .
3. The sums advanced by the Swiss Postal Administration in accordance with Section 2 shall be repaid by the debtor Administrations as soon as possible, and at the latest before the 31st of December of the

year in which the account is sent out . After that period , the sums due bear interest , payable to the said Administration , at the rate of 5 per cent a year, counting from the date of expiration of the said

period .

Classification of

countries.

4. The countries of the Union are classified as follows , in view of the

distribution of the expenses:

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3399

1st class : Union of South Africa , Germany, United States of America, Argentine Republic, Commonwealth of Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Spain, France , United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , India , Italy, Japan , New Zealand , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ;
2d class: 3d class: Whole of the Possessions of the United States of America; Belgium, Egypt, Algeria, Indochina , Whole of the other Overseas Territories of the French Republic and Territories administered as such, Whole of the British Overseas Territories, including the Colonies , the Protectorates and the Territories under Mandate or under Trusteeship exercised by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , Mexico, Netherlands, Netherlands Indies , Poland, Rumania, Sweden, Swiss Confederation , Czechoslovakia, Turkey, Soviet Socialist Republic of Ukraine, People's Federative Republic of Yugoslavia ; 4th class : Korea , Denmark, Finland, Hungary, Ireland , Norway, Portugal, Portuguese Colonies in West Africa, Portuguese Colonies in East Africa, Asia and Oceania ; 5th class : Austria, Soviet Socialist Republic of Byelorussia, People's Republic of Bulgaria, Chile , Republic of Colombia, Greece, Iran, Morocco (except the Spanish Zone) , Morocco (Spanish Zone) , Peru , Tunisia ;
6th class : Afghanistan , People's Republic of Albania, Bolivia, Republic of Costa Rica, Republic of Cuba, Dominican Republic , Republic of El Salvador, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Republic of Haiti , Republic of Honduras, Luxembourg, Nicaragua, Republic of Panama, Paraguay, Curaçao and Surinam, Siam , Oriental Republic of Uruguay, United States of Venezuela;
7th class : Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Colony of the Belgian Congo , Whole of the Spanish Colonies, Iraq, Republic of Iceland, Lebanon, Republic of Liberia, Republic of the Philippines, Republic of San Marino , Syria, Hashimite Kingdom of Transjordan , Vatican City State, Yemen .
Final Provisions.

ARTICLE 184 .

Effective date and duration of the Regulations. 1. The present Regulations will be in force from the effective date of the Universal Postal Convention. 2. They will have the same duration as the Convention , unless they are renewed by mutual agreement between the parties concerned .
Done at Paris, July 5, 1947 . Signatures
[ For signatures, see French text, p. 3188 ; for romanization , see p . 3416. ]

Ante, p. 3336.

3400

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Table of the Articles of the
PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE TRANSPORTATION OF REGULAR MAILS BY AIR
1. AIR-MAIL PROVISIONS OF THE CONVENTION .
CHAPTER I.
General provisions. Art. 1. Articles of correspondence admitted to air transportation.
2. Freedom of transit. 3. Dispatch of air-mail correspondence. 4. Air transportation over part of the route only. 5. Rates and general conditions for acceptance of air-mail correspondence. 6. Unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid air-mail correspondence. 7. Delivery of air-mail correspondence. 8. Redirection and return of air-mail correspondence.
CHAPTER II.
Registered or insured articles. Art. 9. Registered articles.
10. Return receipt. 11. Responsibility. 12. Insured articles.
CHAPTER III.
Allocation of air-transportation surcharges . Transportation charges. Art. 13. Allocation of surcharges.
14. Air-transportation charges for closed mails. 15. Transportation charges for air-mail correspondence in open mail .
CHAPTER IV.
International Bureau. Art. 16. Communications to be addressed to the International Bureau and to
the Administrations.
CHAPTER V.
Accounting. Settlement of accounts. Art. 17. Accounting statistics.
18. Preparation of ordinary or air-mail dispatches during the statistical periods for air-mail transportation charges.
19. Fixing the weight of air-mail dispatches and correspondence. 20. List of closed air mails. 21. Account of air-transportation charges settled on the basis of statistics. 22. Air-transportation account. 23. General account.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

CHAPTER VI.

Miscellaneous provisions.
Art. 24. Designation of air-mail correspondence. 25. Designation of air-mail dispatches. 26. Method of dispatching air-mail correspondence. 27. Waybills and delivery lists of dispatches. 28. Transfer of air-mail dispatches. 29. Annotations to be made on the letter bills, insured bills and labels of air-mail dispatches. 30. Customs clearance of dutiable correspondence. 31. Return of empty air-mail sacks. 32. Application of the provisions of the Convention and Agreements. 33. Effective date and duration of the Provisions adopted.

2. FINAL PROTOCOL OF THE AIR-MAIL PROVISIONS OF THE CONVENTION.

I. Air-transportation charges for closed mails. II. Option of reducing the weight unit for air-mail correspondence. III. Exceptional surcharges.

Forms AV 1 to AV 7.[']

APPENDIX.

' See French text, pp. 3293-3299.

3401

3402

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE TRANSPORTATION OF REGULAR MAILS BY AIR

CHAPTER I.

General Provisions.

ARTICLE 1 .

Articles of correspondence admitted to air transportation.

Ante, p. 3319. Registration, etc.

1. There are admitted to air transportation, over all or part of the route, all the articles designated in Article 35 of the Convention , as well as money orders , collection orders , and subscriptions by mail. Such articles which, in that case, are known as air-mail correspondence, are divided into articles for which a special air-transportation surcharge is collected (surcharged articles) , and those for which such a charge is not due (unsurcharged articles) .
2. The articles mentioned in Article 35 of the Convention may be

Insured letters and boxes.

submitted to the formality of registration and be sent C. O. D. 3. Insured letters and boxes may also be transported by air in
relations between countries which agree to exchange articles of that

Marking.

kind by that route. 4. Surcharged air-mail articles shall be marked very clearly on the
front with the words "Par Avion" or a similar indication in the lan-

guage of the country of origin.

ARTICLE 2.

Ante. p. 3318.

Freedom of transit . The freedom of transit provided for in Article 28 of the Convention is guaranteed to air-mail correspondence throughout the territory of the Union, whether or not the intermediate Administrations take part in the forwarding of the correspondence.
ARTICLE 3.

Forwarding of air-mail correspondence .

1. Administrations which make use of communications by air for

the transportation of their own surcharged air-mail correspondence

are bound to forward by those same routes the surcharged air-mail correspondence received by them from other Administrations . The

same applies to unsurcharged air-mail correspondence, provided the

available capacity of the planes permits it.

Administrations

without air service.

2. Administrations having no air service forward air-mail corre-

spondence by the most rapid means utilized by the mails. The same

applies if, for any reason, forwarding by such other means offers advantages over an existing air route.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3403

3. If occasion arises, account is taken of the indications of routing placed on surcharged air-mail articles by the senders , provided the routing asked for is normally utilized for the transportation of mails on the stretch concerned , and that dispatch by such route does not result in considerable delay in the arrival of the articles at destination .
4. Closed air-mail dispatches shall be sent by the route requested by the Administration of the country of origin, provided that such route is utilized by the Administration of the transit country for the transmission of its own dispatches .
5. In order to establish the most suitable route, the office of origin may send to the office of destination of the dispatch a trial bulletin in accordance with Form AV 1 hereto appended ; the bulletin must be included in the dispatch and attached to the letter bill . The trial bulletin, duly filled out, shall be returned to the office of origin by the first available air mail .
6. When, as the result of an accident occurring en route, a plane can not continue its trip and deliver the mail at the stops scheduled , the personnel on board shall deliver the dispatches to the post office nearest to the place of the accident or the one best qualified to reforward the mails . If the personnel is prevented from doing this , the post office concerned, after being informed of the accident, shall make every possible effort without delay to take delivery of the mail. The dispatches must be forwarded to the offices of destination by the most rapid means after determining the condition of the correspondence and reconditioning it if damaged .
7. The circumstances of the accident and the facts determined shall be reported by bulletin of verification to the offices of destination of the dispatches involved ; a copy of the bulletin shall be sent to the office of origin of the dispatches . In addition , the Administration of the country to which the air line belongs shall advise the Administrations concerned by telegram of all the particulars of the disposal of the mail.
ARTICLE 4.

Routing. Accidents.

Air transportation over part of the route only.

1. Unless practical difficulties would result therefrom , the sender

may request that his surcharged correspondence be dispatched by air

over only a part of the route .

2. When he exercises this option, the sender shall indicate on his

surcharged correspondence in the language of the country of origin and

in French: "Par avion de

à

" (By air mail

from

to

...). At the end of the air transmission,

the "Par Avion " labels mentioned in Article 24 hereafter, as well as

the special notations, shall be crossed out by means of two heavy transverse lines.

ARTICLE 5.

Post, p. 3412.

Rates and general conditions for acceptance of air-mail correspondence. 1. Surcharged air-mail articles are liable, in addition to the regular
postage rates , to a special surcharge for air transportation, the amount

Aerial surcharges.

3404
Ante, p. 3326. Post, p. 3407.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

of which shall be fixed by the Administration of the country of origin. Subject to the provisions of Section 7 , the aerial surcharge is also due for air-mail articles which enjoy the franking privilege by virtue of Article 52 , Sections 2 to 4 of the Convention .
2. In relations considered as services of class A (Article 14 , Section 9, hereafter) , letters and post cards , with or without registration or C. O. D. charges , as well as money orders and collection orders , are transported by air without collection of air surcharges if the route to be traversed does not exceed 2,000 kilometers and if their delivery will be advantageously accelerated by air dispatch . The Administrations shall advise one another of the countries for which the dispatches mentioned are sent by air .
3. In relations between countries of Europe, in appropriate cases, the surcharge amounts to 7½½ centimes per 20 grams at most regardless of the distance.
4. The maximum amounts of air-transportation surcharges due for each unit of weight of 20 grams and for each air distance of 1,000 kilometers are shown below:

Distances 1

Letters, post cards, money orders and collection orders
2

Other articles of correspondence not mentioned in Column 2
3

CLASS A AIR-MAIL SERVICE

Up to 2,000 kilometers .. Over 2,000 kilometers ..

7½ centimes

CLASS B AIR-MAIL SERVICE

All distances .--

15 centimes

7½ centimes 7½ centimes
15 centimes

5. The surcharges fixed according to Section 4 shall be uniform for

all the territory of a country of destination , regardless of the route

Articles other than letters, etc.

used . 6. For articles other than letters , post cards, money orders and
collection orders , the surcharges collected by application of Sections 2

Optional collection of surcharge.

to 5 may be reduced to a minimum of one-fifth. 7. Administrations have the option of not collecting any surcharge
for air transportation, on condition that they inform the country of

destination and that a previous agreement has been made with the

transit countries .

Prepayment.

8. The surcharges shall be prepaid at the time of mailing.

9. The surcharge for a reply post card is collected separately for

each half at the place of mailing of each of those halves .

Ante, p. 3325.

10. Air-mail correspondence is prepaid under the conditions fixed by Articles 50 and 51 of the Convention . However , regardless of the

nature of such correspondence , the prepayment may be represented by

a handwritten notation, in figures, of the sum collected , expressed in

money of the country of origin, in the following form, for example:

"Taxe perçue (postage collected) :

Dollars

cents "

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3405

That notation may appear either in a special hand-stamp impression or on a special adhesive stamp or label, or, even , it may be simply indicated on the address side of the article by any process whatever. In all cases, the notation shall be supported by the date stamp of the office of origin.
ARTICLE 6.

Unprepaid or insufficiently prepaid air-mail correspondence .
1. In case of total lack of prepayment, air-mail correspondence is treated in accordance with the provisions of Articles 37 and 38 of the Convention. Articles whose prepayment at the time of mailing is not obligatory are sent by the ordinary means .
2. In case of insufficient prepayment, surcharged air-mail correspondence is sent by air when the postage paid represents at least the amount of the air-mail surcharge . The Administrations of origin have the option of sending such correspondence by air when the postage paid represents at least 25 percent of the amount of the air surcharge .
3. The provisions of Article 38 of the Convention are applicable in regard to the collection of charges not paid at the time of mailing.
4. When surcharged articles mentioned in Section 2 are sent by ordinary means , the office of mailing or the exchange office shall cross out by means of two heavy transverse lines the Par Avion label and all notations relative to the air transportation , and indicate briefly the reason for transmission by the ordinary means.

Ante, p. 3322

ARTICLE 7.

Delivery of air-mail correspondence.

1. Air-mail correspondence is delivered as rapidly as possible , and

shall at least be included in the first delivery following its arrival at the office of destination.

2. Senders have the option of requesting delivery at the addressee's residence by special carrier immediately after arrival, by paying the special-delivery fee provided for by Article 47 of the Convention.

icSpecial-carrier serv- e. Ante, p. 3324.

That option exists only in relations between countries which have

organized the special-delivery service in their reciprocal relations.

3. When the regulations of the country of destination permit,

addressees may ask the office charged with the delivery to have air-

mail correspondence addressed to them delivered to them upon arrival.

In that case, the Administrations of destination are authorized to

collect , at the time of delivery, a special fee which may not be higher

than the special-delivery fee provided for by Article 47 of the Convention.
4. For additional compensation, Administrations may, after agree-

Special means.

ment, undertake delivery at the residence of the addressee by special means ; for example, by the use of pneumatic tubes.

3406

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
ARTICLE 8 .
Redirection and return of air-mail correspondence . 1. Air-mail correspondence addressed to persons who have changed their residence is forwarded to the new destination by means ordinarily employed, unless the addressee has expressly requested redirection by air mail and has paid the forwarding office the aerial surcharge for the new route in advance. Undeliverable correspondence is returned to origin by means ordinarily employed . 2. If redirection or return of surcharged correspondence is effected by the ordinary means, the Par avion label and all notations relative to transmission by the air route shall be crossed out by means of two heavy transverse lines .
CHAPTER II.
Registered or Insured Articles.
ARTICLE 9.
Registered articles. Registered articles for which a special surcharge for air conveyance has been collected are subject to the postage rates and general conditions for acceptance provided for by the Convention . They are also liable to the same air surcharges as ordinary articles .
ARTICLE 10.
Return receipt.
Each Administration is authorized to consider the weight of the return receipt form in computing the air surcharge .
ARTICLE 11 .
Responsibility. Administrations assume, in regard to registered articles sent by the air route, the same responsibility as for other registered articles.
ARTICLE 12.
Insured articles .
1. Administrations which accept insured articles for transportation by air mail are authorized to collect, on account of such articles, a special insurance fee, the amount of which they are to fix. The sum of the ordinary insurance fee and the special fee shall not exceed double the limit fixed by Article 3 , letter (c) , of the Agreement concerning insured letters and boxes .
2. As for insured articles passing in transit in closed mails through the territory of countries not adhering to the aforesaid Agreement , or passing in transit through air services for which the countries concerned do not accept responsibility for insured articles , the responsibility of those countries is limited to that provided for registered articles .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3407

CHAPTER III.

Allocation of Air Surcharges. Transportation Charges.
ARTICLE 13 .
Allocation of surcharges. Each Administration retains the whole of the air surcharges which it has collected .
ARTICLE 14 .

Air-transportation charges for closed mails. 1. The provisions of Article 67 of the Convention concerning transit

Ante, p. 3333.

charges apply to air-mail correspondence only for its transmission ,

if any, by land or sea .

2. The air-transportation charges for air-mail articles sent in closed

dispatches are collectible from the Administration of the country
of origin. Intermediate Ad-
3. Every Administration which assures the transportation of air- ministrations; trans-
mail correspondence by the air route, as intermediate Administra- portation charges.

tion, is entitled , on that account, to payment of transportation

charges. Such charges are computed in accordance with the actual length of the routes over which the dispatch or the articles have been

carried. If the plane stops at several airports, the payment is due
as far as the airport where the unloading takes place . Internal transporta-
4. Transportation charges must also be paid for transportation tion charges.
within the country of destination . The payments must be uniform for all the routes traversed in the domestic service ; they are computed

in accordance with the average length of all the routes traversed in the domestic service and their importance for the international service .
5. The transportation charges relative to one and the same air route are uniform for all Administrations using that service without

Uniform charges.

participating in the operating costs.

Administration to

6. With the exceptions provided for in Sections 7 and 8 following, which charges arepay

able.

the air-transportation charges are payable to the Postal Administra-

tion of the country in which the airport where the dispatches have

been taken in charge by the air service is located . 7. An Administration which delivers to an air-transport enterprise

Direct settlements.

mails intended for conveyance by several separate air services in succession may, if it has so agreed with the intermediate Administrations, settle directly with that enterprise for the transportation charges for the whole route . The intermediate Administrations , for their part, have the right to request the application pure and simple of the provisions of Section 6 .

8. By exception to the provisions of Sections 6 and 7 , every

Administration maintaining an air service is entitled to collect directly from each Administration utilizing such service the transportation

charges for the whole route. 9. The basic rates to be applied in the settlement of accounts
between Administrations for air transportation are fixed per gross

Basic rates.

kilogram and per kilometer as follows:

3408

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

(a) European air services and other services whose operating costs are similar (class A) : 3 thousandths of a franc at most;

(b) Services whose maintenance requires higher costs (class B) : 6 thousandths of a franc at most.

Domestic - service rates.

10. The transportation rates specified in Section 9 are applied

proportionally to fractions of a kilogram. The dispatches or articles conveyed by the domestic service of the countries of destination are

subject to the rate applicable to class A services, unless the corre-

sponding countries agree not to collect any payment for such trans-

Charges for articles exempt from transit charges.

portation. 11. The transportation charges mentioned are also payable for
articles which are exempt from transit charges . Misdirected or

missent dispatches or articles are considered , for purposes of payment of transportation charges , as having followed their normal route.

However, for the conveyance of dispatches to be forwarded by services

of class B, the intermediate Administration may require reimburse-

ment of the transportation charges. The accounting for the air-

transportation charges then takes place according to Article 21 ,

Post, p. 3411 .

Sections 1 and 3 , of the Provisions .

No payment to countries flown over.

12. Administrations of countries flown over have no right to any

compensation for dispatches transported by air over their territory.

ARTICLE 15.

Transportation charges for air-mail correspondence in open mail.
1. The transportation charges for air-mail correspondence exchanged in open mail between two Administrations shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of Article 14 , Sections 1 to 5 and 9 to 11. However, when the territory of the country of destination of such correspondence is served by an air route making several stops on that territory, the transportation charges are calculated on the basis of an average rate proportionate to the tonnage of mail unloaded at each stop.
2. In order to determine the transportation charges, the net weight of such articles is increased by 10 per cent .
3. An Administration which delivers air-mail correspondence in transit in open mail to another Administration shall pay it the entire amount of the transportation charges calculated for all the subsequent air distance.
CHAPTER IV.

International Bureau. ARTICLE 16.

Communications to be addressed to the International Bureau and to the Administrations.

Operation information .

1. The Administrations shall communicate to the International

Bureau, on the forms sent to them by the latter, the necessary infor-

mation concerning the operation of the air-mail service. This infor-

mation includes particularly :

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3409

(a) The listing of domestic and international lines which are at the disposal of other Administrations for the conveyance of air-mail articles in closed or open mails (number and route, length in kilometers, the average distance based on Article 14, Section 4 for the domestic lines, class A or B services, company, etc.) ;

Ante, p. 3407.

(b) Transportation charges per kilogram due from the Administrations making use of such lines ;

(c) Air surcharges collected by each Administration for the various classes of air-mail correspondence and for the various countries ;

(d) The decisions of each Administration relative to the option

whether or not certain of the Air Mail Provisions should be applied .

2. The

International

Bureau publishes

once

a year, in

June ,

a

General informa. tion list.

general list of information concerning the air-mail services from

the facts thus collected , which is distributed among the Administra-

tions . Any modifications to be made in the information furnished or in the general list shall be communicated to the International Bureau by air mail without delay.
3. The International Bureau is also charged with the preparation

Maps.

and distribution of maps showing the lines of domestic and inter-

national air-mail communications of all countries, as well as a list

showing the schedules of each country's domestic and international

air lines and the deadline by which the planes should arrive at the

airports to permit mail to be delivered that day. 4. Any modifications in the publications mentioned in Sections

Supplements.

2 and 3 are communicated to the Administrations by means of Supplements .
5. Regardless of the foregoing, the Administrations may agree to

Schedules, etc.

advise each other directly, in advance of each schedule period , as to the facts and schedules concerning the air lines which particularly

interest them, as provisional information .

6. Administrations which utilize air-mail communications for the

transportation of their own ordinary mails shall so inform the other

Administrations of the Union through the intermediary of the International Bureau , advising them at the same time of the effective date when use of such communications is inaugurated, the connections thus made available , as well as all changes made therein .

CHAPTER V.

Accounting. Settlement of Accounts.

ARTICLE 17.

Accounting statistics.
1. Unless exception is made due to circumstances, the general accounting for air-transportation charges is effected in accordance with statistical tables prepared during the seven days following the 14th of May and the 14th of November of each year. The results of the May statistics form the basis for the payments due for the months from May to October ; those of November are used for the months from November to April.

Method , etc.

3410 Special cases. Class B services.
Ante, p. 3295.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
2. Statistics concerning services which do not operate during the regular statistical periods are prepared after agreement between the Administrations concerned.
3. As concerns services of class B, the Administration charged with the transportation by air has the option of requesting that the settlement of accounts be made monthly or quarterly , on the basis of the gross weight of the dispatches , or the net weight increased by 10 percent of the articles in open mail , actually transported during the period in question . In such a case, the provisions of Articles 19, 21 and 22 hereafter are applied to the ascertainment of weight and preparation of accounts , with the understanding that the statements A V 3 and A V 4 are to be made up monthly for all air transportation effected , taking account of the date of dispatch indicated by the office
of origin. ARTICLE 18.

Ante, p. 3381.

Preparation of ordinary or air-mail dispatches during the statistical periods for air-mail transportation charges .
The provisions of Article 153 of the Regulations of Execution of the Convention do not apply to the semiannual statistics for the fixing of air-transportation charges . However, during such statistical periods , the labels or addresses of dispatches containing air-mail correspondence shall bear the conspicuous notation Statistique-avion (air-mail statistics) .
ARTICLE 19.

Fixing the weight of air-mail dispatches and correspondence.

Date and weight indication .

1. During the statistical periods, the date of dispatch, the gross

weight and the number of the mail are indicated on the label or outside

address of the dispatch. The inclusion of air-mail dispatches in another dispatch of the same kind is prohibited .

2. If the letters and post cards, as well as the other articles, are

combined in a dispatch carried by routes for which a reduced trans-

portation charge is applied to A. O. , the weight of each of the two classes

must be shown in addition to the total weight on the label or outer

address of the dispatch . In such case , the weight of the outer wrap-

ping (sack or package) is added to the weight of the other articles.

If a collector sack is used , its weight is ignored. Redispatched mail. 3. In the event that open-mail correspondence intended to be redis-

patched by the air route is included in an ordinary or air-mail dispatch, such correspondence , made up into a special bundle labeled

Ante, p. 3294.

Par avion (by air mail) , is accompanied by bills conforming to Form A V 2 hereto appended , one for the ordinary articles and another for

the registered articles . The weight of the correspondence in transit

in open mail is indicated separately for each country of destination

or for groups of countries for which the transportation charges are

uniform . In relations between countries which have agreed not to collect any payment for redispatch by their domestic air service, the

weight of the articles in open mail for the country of destination itself is not indicated . The letter bill is marked "Bordereau A V 2".

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

3411

Transit countries have the option of requesting the use of special bills A V 2 showing the most important countries and air lines in a fixed order. When the accounts for the air transport charges are not prepared on the basis of the statistical statements (services of class B, exceptional circumstances ) , the bills A V 2 shall be numbered. specially in a continuous annual series .
4. The entries are verified by the exchange office of destination . If that office finds that the actual weight of the dispatches differs by more than 100 grams, and that of the open mail articles by more than 20 grams, from the weight announced , it corrects the label or the bill A V 2 and immediately reports the error to the dispatching exchange office by bulletin of verification . When it is a question of closed mails, a copy of the bulletin is addressed to each intermediate Administration . If the differences in weight detected remain within the limits above mentioned, the entries of the dispatching office are considered valid .
5. The absence of bill A V 2 does not authorize the transit country to redispatch the air-mail articles by surface means. Retransmission by air must be assured . If necessary, the bill A V 2 is prepared and the irregularity is reported by a bulletin C 14 drawn against the office of origin .
ARTICLE 20 .

Verification. Ante, p. 3266.

List of closed air mails.
As soon as possible, and in any case within a period of one month after each statistical period , the Administrations which have dispatched closed air mails send a list of such dispatches , on an appropriate Form C 18 , to the different Administrations whose air services they have used , including that of destination , if occasion arises.

Ante, p. 3270.

ARTICLE 21 .

Account of air-transportation charges settled on the basis of statistics.

1. During the statistical periods, the intermediate Administrations take note , on a form conforming to Form A V 3 hereto appended , of

Ante, p. 3295.

the weights indicated on the labels or outside addresses of the air-mail

dispatches which they have forwarded by the air route, either within

the limits of their domestic network or beyond the frontiers of their

countries . As concerns air-mail articles in open mail which reach

them from other Administrations and which they forward by air, a statement conforming to Form A V 4 hereto appended is prepared in accordance with the indications appearing on the bills A V 2. Air-

Ante, p. 3296. Ante, p. 3294.

mail articles contained in ordinary dispatches are subjected to the

same procedure. Separate statements are prepared for each dispatch-

ing exchange office of air dispatches or air-mail articles in open mail.

2. The Administrations of destination which assure the forwarding

of air dispatches or of air-mail articles by air in their domestic services proceed in the same manner.
3. As soon as possible, and at the latest three weeks after the close of statistical operations, the statements A V 3 and A V 4 are sent in
68706-52-PT. III- 51

Forwarding ofstatements.

3412

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

duplicate to the dispatching exchange offices for acceptance. The offices, after accepting the statements, send them in turn to their

Presumption of acceptance.

central Administration, which forwards a copy to the central Administration of the creditor country.
4. If the creditor Administration has not received any statement of

differences within an interval of two months, counting from the date

of transmittal, the statements are considered as automatically ac-

cepted . In relations between distant countries, the period is extended to three months .

ARTICLE 22 .

Basis for accounts.

Air-transportation account. 1. The gross weights of the dispatches , and the net weights increased

by 10 per cent of the articles in open mail , shown in the statements

AV 3 or AV 4, are multiplied by a figure determined by the frequency

of the summer and winter services ; the products thus obtained serve

Ante, p. 3297.

as the basis for individual accounts prepared on a form in accordance with Form A V 5 hereto appended and showing, in francs, the trans-

Preparation and transmission .

portation charges due to each Administration for the current sixmonth period.
2. The duty of preparing the accounts is incumbent upon the

creditor Administration , which transmits them to the debtor Admin-

Presumption of acceptance .

istration . 3. The individual accounts are made up in duplicate and transmitted
as soon as possible to the debtor Administration . If the creditor

Administration has not received any statement of differences within an

interval of two months , counting from the date of transmittal, such

accounts are considered as automatically accepted . In relations between distant countries , this period is extended to three months.

ARTICLE 23.

General account.

In the absence of contrary agreement between the Administrations concerned , the general account of air-transportation charges is prepared twice a year by the International Bureau , in accordance with the rules fixed for the transit-charge account.

CHAPTER VI.

Miscellaneous Provisions.
ARTICLE 24.
Designation of air-mail correspondence . Surcharged air-mail correspondence is provided , at the time of mailing, with a special blue label or imprint bearing the words Par avion (by air mail) , with an optional translation into the language of the country of origin.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3413

ARTICLE 25.

Designation of air-mail dispatches.
1. When the air-mail articles give rise to the formation of separate dispatches, the latter shall be made up with blue paper or by means of sacks either entirely blue or bearing wide blue stripes .
2. The Administrations concerned agree as to the special notation to be placed on the sack labels of the closed mails containing unsurcharged air-mail articles .
ARTICLE 26 .

Method of dispatching air-mail correspondence.
Ordinary dis1. The provisions of Articles 145, Section 2 , letter (a) , and 147 of patches.
Ante, pp. 3373, 3374. the Regulations of Execution of the Convention are applied, by

analogy, to air-mail correspondence included in ordinary dispatches .

The labels of the bundles shall bear the notation Par avion (by air mail) .
2. In case of inclusion of registered air-mail articles in ordinary

Registered articles.

dispatches, the note Par avion shall be entered in the place prescribed

by Section 3 of the aforesaid Article 147 for the note Exprès (special

delivery) . 3. If it is a question of insured air-mail articles included in ordinary
dispatches, the note Par avion is entered in the Observations column

Insured articles.

of the insured bills, opposite the entry of each of them. 4. Air-mail articles sent in transit in open mail in an air-mail or

Forwarded articles.

ordinary dispatch, which are to be forwarded by the air route by the

country of destination of the dispatch, are tied in a special bundle
labeled Par avion.
Formation of sepa5. The transit country may request the formation of separate rate bundles.

bundles by countries of destination . In that case, each bundle is

provided with a label bearing the note : Par avion pour

(by air mail for

--- ) .

ARTICLE 27.

Waybills and delivery lists of dispatches .
1. Dispatches to be delivered to the airport shall be accompanied by a yellow waybill and a white delivery list, in accordance with Forms A V 6 and A V 7 hereto appended .
2. One copy of the waybill signed by the representative of the air company is kept by the dispatching office ; a second copy, delivered to the pilot, accompanies the dispatches .
3. A delivery list, prepared for each stop on the route, is placed in a folder with compartments, the first compartment being reserved for the postal waybill and the others for the delivery lists, one for each stop in their proper sequence.

Ante, pp. 3298, 3299.

ARTICLE 28.

Transfer of air-mail dispatches. Barring contrary agreement between the Administrations concerned, the transfer en route, in one and the same airport , of mails

3414

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

which employ several separate air services in succession, is effected through the intermediary of the Administration of the country where the transshipment takes place. The rule does not apply when the transfer is made between aircraft covering the successive sections of one and the same service .
ARTICLE 29.

Ante, p. 3412.

Notations to be made on the letter bills , insured bills , and labels of airmail dispatches.
The letter bills and insured bills accompanying air-mail dispatches shall be provided , in their headings , with the Par avion label or the imprint mentioned in Article 24. The same label or imprint is affixed to the labels or addresses of such dispatches . The number of the dispatches shall be shown on the labels or addresses of such dispatches.
ARTICLE 30 .
Customs clearance of dutiable correspondence. The Administrations take steps to accelerate, as far as possible, the customs clearance of dutiable air-mail correspondence .
ARTICLE 31.

Labels. Ante, p. 3379.

Return of empty air-mail sacks.
1. Air-mail sacks shall be returned empty to the Administration of origin by surface means . When there are as many as ten at least, special dispatches thereof shall be prepared between air-mail exchange offices designated for that purpose ; such dispatches shall be labeled "Sacs vides" (Empty sacks) and numbered according to an annual series . The letter bill shows the number of sacks returned to the country of origin .
2. The provisions of Sections 5 and 6 of Article 151 of the Regulations of the Convention shall apply to empty air-mail sacks.
ARTICLE 32.

Application of the provisions of the Convention and Agreements.
The provisions of the Convention and Agreements , as well as of their Regulations, with the exception of the Parcel Post Agreement and its Regulations , are applicable as regards everything which is not expressly regulated by the foregoing Articles .
ARTICLE 33 .

Ante, p. 3336.

Effective date and duration of the Provisions adopted. 1. The present Provisions will be put into force from the effective date of the Convention . 2. They will have the same duration as the Convention , unless they are renewed by mutual agreement between the parties concerned . Done at Paris, July 5, 1947 .
Signatures. [For signature, see French text, p. 3188 ; for romanization, see p. 3416. ]

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

3415

FINAL PROTOCOL OF THE PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE TRANSPORTATION OF REGULAR MAILS BY AIR

I.

Air-transportation charges for closed mails. Exceptionally, the Administrations have the option of applying the rates of Class B for each segment of their domestic air-mail network, provided that the Administrations concerned are informed thereof.
II.

Option of reducing the weight unit for air-mail correspondence. Administrations whose system of weights permits it have the option of adopting units of weight lower than that of 20 grams provided for in Article 5. In that case, the surcharge is fixed in accordance with the unit of weight adopted .
III.

Ante, p. 3403.

Exceptional surcharges .
1. Exceptionally, the Administrations have the option of applying to the air correspondence mentioned in Article 5 , Section 2, a special air surcharge which may not exceed 7½% centimes per 20 grams and per 1,000 kilometers .
2. European Administrations which take advantage of the option provided in Section 1 and which, due to the geographical position of their countries, find it difficult to adopt a uniform surcharge for all of Europe, are authorized to collect surcharges in proportion to the distances, in accordance with the provisions of Article 5, Section 4 .
3. That option is also granted to other European countries for their relations with the countries mentioned in Section 2.
4. In consideration of the special geographical position of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , the Administration of that country reserves the right to apply a uniform surcharge over the entire territory of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , for all the countries of the world. The surcharge shall not exceed the actual costs occasioned by the transportation of the correspondence by air.
Done at Paris , July 5, 1947 . Signatures.
[ For signatures, see French text, p . 3188 ; for romanization , see p. 3416.]

Ante, p. 3404.

3416

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Ante, p, 3188.

Note by the Department of State

The following list of persons who signed the Universal Postal Convention at Paris July 5, 1947 , has been furnished by the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs : ¹

Pays Afghanistan

Signataires M. M. ISLAM BAY KHAN
ABDUL KAYOUM KHAN

Afrique du Sud

LEONARD CECIL Burke

Albanie

KAHREMAN YLLI

Amérique (Etats-Unis)
Ensemble des Possessions des Etats - Unis d'Amérique

JOHN J. GILLEN Pour FRANK PACE, JR .:
JOHN J. GILLEN EDWARD J. MAHONEY FREDERICK E. BATRUS
d°

Arabie Saoudite

S. E. El Sheikh HAFIZ WAHBA

Argentine (Rép .)

Pour OSCAR L. NICOLINI : D. B. CANALLE.
M. M. DOMINGO B. CANALLE ROQUE DE ZERBI

Australie

L. B. FANNING Le Colonel W. G. WRIGHT

Autriche

Le Dr RUDOLF KUHN

Belgique

A. H. A. J. STAPPAERTA O. J. SCHOCKAERT A. J. J. J. CARÊME

Congo belge Biélorussie

L. WERY W. A. Kossov

Bolivie

S. E. le Dr ADOLFO COSTA DU RELS

1 In this printing minor changes have been made in the French list.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

Pays Brésil

Signataires M. M. le Colonel RAUL DE ALBUQUERQUE
CARLOS LUIS TAVEIRA MOACYR RIBEIRO BRIGGA JULIO SANCHEZ PEREZ

Bulgarie

ASSENE GHEORGHIEFF AVRAM COHENOV

Canada

W. J. TURNBULL E. J. UNDERWOOD LUDOVIC GERMAIN

Chili

EYZAGUIRRE

Chine Colombie

S. E. Le Dr. TSIEN TAI
M. M. LEOPOLD BORDA ROLDAN ROBERTO ARCINIEGAS -SCHLEISINGER JORGE PÉREZ JIMENO

Cuba

SERGIO I. CLARK DIAZ EVELIO C. JUNOSA PUJOL JESÚS LAGO LUNAR

Danemark

Le Dr ARNE KROG Le Dr J. E. T. ANDERSEN

Dominicaine (Rép .)

S. E. Le Dr MANUEL PASTORIZA VALVERDE
M. M. SALVADOR E. PARADAS .

Egypte

AHMED MAMDOUH MOUSI BEY MOAWAD KHALIL BISHAI Le Dr ANOUAR BAKIR

El Salvador

RAMON ARTURO BUSTAMANTE A. SOLER-SERRA

Equateur Ethiopie Finlande

S. E. ANTONIO PARRA VELASCO
S. E. ATO TESFAIE TEGUEGN
M. M. JOHAN HELO URHO AATTO TALVITIE TAUNO AARRE PUOLANNE

3417

3418

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Pays France

Signataires M. M. JOSEPH JEAN LE MOUEL
ALBERT LAMARLE MARIUS VICTOR USCLAT ERNEST GABRIEL BERNARD MICHEL JEAN RENÉ DESMARAIS MARCEL DROUET GEORGES ANDRÉ JOSEPH BOURTHO-
MIEUX

Algérie

ANDRÉ LABROUSSE HENRI GRAS

Indochine Ensemble des autres ter-
ritoires d'Outre-Mer de la République française et des territoires administrés comme tels

EDMOND SKINAZI EDMOND SKINAZI

Grande-Bretagne et Irlande du Nord
Ensemble des territoires britanniques d'Outre-Mer
Grèce
Guatemala Haïti

D. J. LIDBURY W. H. WEIGHTMAN R. H. LOCKE A. L. WILLIAMS E. P. BELL A. WOLSTENCROFT Mêmes signatures pour la Grande-
Bretagne
DEMETRE VERNARDOS THEODORE BREDIMAS
S. E. ENRIQUE MUNOZ MEANY
S. E. PLACIDE DAVID

Honduras (représen- M. M. RAMON ARTURO BUSTAMANTE

té par la Déléga-

A. SOLER-SERRA

tion salvadorienne)

Hongrie Inde

ELEMER MODOS
KRISHNA PRASADA C. V. CUNNINGHAM Le Lieutenant CEL S. A. SIDDIQI S. N. DAS GUPTA RAI SAHIB N. CHANDRA

Iran

M. M. HASSAN HEDJAZI ISSA PARSA

Iraq

SAYED JAMIL HAMDI SAYED BAHER FAIK

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION- JULY 5, 1947

Pays Irlande

Signataires S. S. PUIRSEAL S. O. HEIRAMHOIN

Islande

MAGNUS JOCHUMSSON

Italie

Le Dr GIOVANNI MUSUMECI Le Dr ANTONIO PANNETTA PAOLO NOVI

Liban

GEMIL NAMMOUR

Luxembourg
Maroc (à l'exclusion de la zone espagnole)
Mexique

Le Dr EMILE RAUS LOUIS PERNOT MAURICE HUMBERTCLAUDE
EDUARDO VILLASENOR LAURO F. RAMIREZ UMANA

Norvège

STEN HAUG INGVALD LID HÅKON ERIKSEN

Nouvelle -Zélande

P. N. CRYER

Panama

C. ARROCHA GRAELL ELIGIO OCAÑA VIETO

Paraguay (représenté par la délégation argentine)

Pour OSCAR L. NICOLINI : D. B. CANALLE
DOMINGO B. CANALLE ROQUE DE ZERBI .

Pays-Bas

W. R. VAN GOOR F. A. HOFMAN

Curaçao et Surinam

W. R. VAN GOOR F. A. HOFMAN

Indes Néerlandaises

M. M. P. DIFKWEL C. C. VAN DILLEWIJN

Pérou

Pour ARTURO GARCIA Salazar : CARLOS MACKEHENIE CARLOS MACKEHENIE ERNESTO CACERES

Philippines

FELIPE CUADERNO BELARMINO P. NAVARRO

68706--52- PT. III- 52

3419

3420

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Pays Pologne
Portugal
Colonies portugaises de l'Afrique Occidentale
Colonies portugaises de l'Afrique Orientale de l'Asie & de l'Océanie .
Roumanie
Saint-Marin Siam Suède

Signataires BRONISLAW BLAZEK TADEUSZ JARO MAKSYMILIAN HERWICH
DUARTE PINTO BASTO DE GUSMÃO CALHEIROS
JORGE BRAGA A. M. BASTOS GAVIÃO J. C. QUADRIO MORÃO DOMINGOS ANTONIO DA PIEDA-
DE BARRETO JOAQUIM ARNALDO ROGADO QUIN-
TINO DOMINGOS ANTONIO DA PIEDA-
DE BARRETO LUIS CANDIDO TAVEIRA
RENÉ BOSCA IOAN NICOLAU
EUDATON RIZZIERI-FACCHIN
NAI YIM PHUNG PHRAKHUM
G. F. E. LAGER G. A. HULTMAN T. S. NYLUND

Suisse

FRITZ HESS VICENTE TUASON PHILIPPE ZUTTER CHARLES SHAPPUIS HANS GRAF

Syrie Tchécoslovaquie

M. M. ADIB DAOUDI
STANISLAV KONECNY FRANTISEK HOFNER MIROSLAV SOUKUP Le Dr FRANTISEK NORMAN

Tunisie Turquie Ukraine

PAUL MACHABEY IBRAHIM BESEN N. D. STASS

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- UNIVERSAL POSTAL UNION-JULY 5, 1947

Pays U. R. S. S.

Signataires P. A. SARATOVKINE N. D. STASS N. K. BOUCHOUEF D. D. ERIGUINE

Uruguay

Le Dr MIGUEL AGUERRE ARISTEGUY

Vatican

Mgr. EGIDIO VAGNOZZI M. ADIEN SELME

Vénézuela

M. M. Le Dr PABLO CASTRO BECERRA Le Dr FRANCISCO VELEZ SALAS

Yougoslavie

VLADIMIR SENK .

3421

3422

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

September 11 , 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1851]

Agreement and supplement thereto between the United States of America and Korea respecting an initial financial and property settlement. Signed at Seoul September 11 , 1948 ; entered into force September 20 ,

1948.
INITIAL FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA

    )   , 
  

Preamble

The Government

the United

States of America and the Government

of the Republic of Korea, in view of

the note of August 9 , 1948 [ ' ] from the

Fresident of the Republic of Korea to the Commanding General , United States

Army Forces in Korea , the note of August 11,1948 ,[ ] from the Commending General , United States Army Forces in

Korea to the Pres' ent of the Govern-

ment of the Republic of Korea, and in

view of the desirability of concluding

an initial financial and property settlement between the Government

      

       

   ) 

 ---    

 ()    





    ( 1)

    

 + -

  

 ,   , 

    

),    ) 

    

the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea . the undersigned, being duly authorized

 

F    ,  



   

Transfer by U.S.of property, equipment, etc.

by their respective Governments for

that purpose , agree as follows : ARTICLE I
The Government of the United States of America hereby transfers to the Government of the Republic of Korea all right , title , and interest

       
  ,   )  ,     -  ,           ()     )

held by the United States of America to all property classified as national

   )    ,        , 

property in the land and bulldinge ledger ,  

  

and rap books of the district tax offices    ,      

and the land and buildings registers

  2)  ,

1Not printed .

62 STAT. ] KOREA- FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 11, 1948

3423

of the courts , together with all improve-

ments on and additions to such property,

all cash and bank deposits of the United

States Army Military Government in Korea and of the South Korean Interin

Government , all equipment , supplies ,

and other property held by the depart-

ments , offices and agencies

the

United States Army Military Govern-

ment in Korea and of the South Korean

Interim Government , including all TO-

lief and rehabilitation supplies heretofore furnished to the Korean economy

by the Government of the United States of America. Military property of the Government of the United States of

America furnished to the Korean Constabulary, Police . or Coast Guard will be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Korea from

 





1

 ,





  

,

    



  ) 

        ,      

     

 ) ,



     

    

    , 

         

z,



, 

    

Military property.

time to time as authority for such transfer is given by the Government of the United States of America to its representative in Korea. Such transfers of military property shall be accomplished through the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner of the United States Department of State and in accordance with separate agreements to be entered into between said Foreign Liquidation

              )   , 

     

 





Foreign Liquidation Commissioner .





 , 





        

            

3424

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

Commissioner and the Government of the Republic of Korea. The Government of the Republic of Korea agrees that

 ,  

 )  



  

property retained for use by or under the control of the United States Army Forces in Korea during the period of troop withdrawal shall be made available for the use of the Government of the United States of America and maintained without charge to the Government of the United States of America
during the period of troop withdrawal . The Government of the Republic of Korea agrees that properties speci-

  

 

               

  



     

   

      

      ,    

Post, p. 3446.

fied in Exhibit A shall be made available for the temporary use of the Government of the United States under free leaseholds , and further agrees that it will bear all costs in

 ,   ,            )  
   

Liability for obligations and future
claims, etc.

Korean currency for the repair and maintenance of such properties . The Government of the Republic of Korea hereby assumes and relieves the Government of the United States of

            ,         
      

America of all liability for the South Korean Interim Government Overdraft account at the Bank of Chosun . commitments under loans guaranteed by the United States Army Military

-  ,                         

Government in Korea, its agencies and

     

instrumentalities , and by the South

   

62 STAT. ] KOREA -FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 11, 1948

3425

Korean Interim Government , and all other obligations incurred by the United States Army Military Government in Korea and by the South Korean Interim Government , including present and future claims of every kind and description.
This section shall be effective until an agreement comes into effect between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea on aid to the Government of the Republic of Korea. To the extent that relief and rehabilitation

     )   :

 )  -   )

   z )  , )

        ,

      



           ),   )  ,    ·) TK at ~) 5) con »? x ), et
          

Relief and rehabilitation supplies.

supplies still on hand or hereafter TOceived are transferred to the Government of the Republic of Korea by the Govern-

            

ment of the United Stetes of America, ouch        transfer shall be made in a progressive

and orderly manner , and the Government of      

the Republic of Korea shall assume responsibility for the receipt , allocation,

 " ,          

dietribution and accounting for American- :        

financed supplies . Net won proceeds and

accounts receivable derived from the sales of relief and rehabilitation sup-

      

plies by the United States Military

Government in Korea or by the South Korean Interim Government , shall be turned over

          

3426

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

to the Government of the Republic of Korea.    

 

The Government of the Republic of Korea

agrees to deposit these proceeds in a special account in its name in the Bank of Chosun, The Government of the Republic of Korea further agrees to deposit in this special account the proceeds of all sales of relief and rehabilitation supplies which have been or may be transferred by the Government of the United States of America to the Government
of the Republic of Korea. Disbursement from this special account will be

                )      
        ,    
         1e )  ,

62 STAT. ] KOREA-FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 11, 1948

3427

made.only for such purposes as are agreed upon between the senior representative of the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea.
Net proceeds in Korean currency and accounts receivable derived from sales of certain property declared surplus to the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner of the United States Department of State and heretofore furnished to the Korean economy are hereby transferred to the Government of the Republic of Korea.
ARTICLE II The Government of the United States of America agrees to effect settlement for all imports from Japan for the Korean economy delivered between September 9 , 1945 , and the effective date of this agreement ,
less the value of Korean exports shipped to Japan during such period.
ARTICLE III The Government of the United States of America hereby transfers from its custody to the custody of the Government of the Republic of Korea any property in Korea which may have been owned or controlled , directly or indirectly, in whole or in part , on or since August 9 , 1945 ,

        ()                    ,       , 

   )                ,

      

 

    

         )   ) ,  

Korean trade with Japan.

    ,   

      

 ,        )             


  ,   

   ,

 ,

German owned property.

    ,



  ,  ,        

    ,        ,       

3428

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

by Germany; or by any German nationals ,

corporations , societies , associations ,

Consultation with France and U. K.

or any other German organization , The Government of the Republic of Korea

agrees to take all necessary measures

to facilitate such transfers of German

assets in Korea as may be determined by the United States of America consultation with the Republic of France and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Korean Foreign Exchange Bank.

ARTICLE IV The Government of the United States of America hereby transfers

to the Government of the Republic of

Korea the Korean Foreign Exchange Bank

shares presently owned and held by the

United States Army Military Government in Korea, together with all the assets

Consultation with U.S. senior represent. ative.

and liabilities of said Bank. The Government of the United States of

America hereby transfers to the Govern-

ment of the Republic of Korea the net

residual balances of foreign exchange

now standing to the credit of the

South Korean Interim Government in

said Bank, subject to allocation and use only after consultation with and

concurrence of the senior representative in Korea of the Government of

Foreign exchange the United States of America. Pending controls .

                     ,        

     1 )     

     

    , 

  



      ,

   

 

 

    ,    , 

,    ,  



  

             

 ,     

    

    ,   

 ,    my ok.



   , 



62 STAT. ] KOREA-FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 11, 1948

3429

further agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea, existing foreign exchange con-

 

 

, 

 

    , 

trols shall be retained by the Government of the Republic of Korea.
ARTICLE V The Government of the Republic of Korea recognizes and ratifies such disposition of former Japanese public and private property vested under Ordinance Number 33 of the United States Army Military Government in Korea as has already been effected by the United States Army Military Government in Korea. Except for the reservations in respect to the acquisition and use of property by the Government of the United States of America contained in Articles I and IX of this agreement , the remaining vested but unsold property , the net unexpended proceeds from rentals and sales of

2)    

     
   ,          )    

Former Japanese property .

           ,    

 ,

   

      

     

  ,  

     

     

 

, 

   15 ÷ 

Ante, p.3422; post, p.3435.

vested property, together with all accounts receivable and sales contracts , shall be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Korea in the following way:
(a) All cash , bank deposits or other liquid assets are hereby transferred as of the effective date of this agreement ;

   1x )     ,  -  )           ,  ,     ,         ( )  )  ,  ,
   ,  ),         

3430

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

(b ) All other vested property that is to be transferred , together with all available inventories , maps , deeds , Or other evidences of ownership , will be

( 4)- )    )     ,  ) 1-     ,  ,       ,     ,   

turned over progressively to the Government of the Republic of Korea , supported by balance sheets , operating statenents , and other financial records

 ,  OK     ,   ,    ,   ),  

relating to vested property , as rapidly as an orderly transfer can be effected . The Government of the Republic of Korea agrees to establish a separate governmental agency to receive and administer for the benefit of the Korean people the property , heretofore vested under

  ,    ,    ,   ()     ,             1/30      )    ,       

Ordinance No. 33 , which is or will be

 ),  ),  

transferred to the Government of the

     )

Republic of Korea under the provisions

  ,   ,   ,  

of this Article . The Government of the Republic of

Korea will respect , preserve and protect the rights and interests , direct or indirect , of nationals of countries at

war with Japan,

former Jepanese

property in Korea acquired by the Govern-

ment of the Republic of Korea in accordance with this Article provided such

        ,                  ()         ,    ,  :  )           ,         

rights and interests were legally ac-

     

quired by bona fide transfer prior to the effective date of Ordinance No. 33 .



   ,  

     

The Government of the Republic of

    

62 STAT. ] KOREA- FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 11, 1948

3431

Korea hereby relieves the United States of America of all liability, including all current and future claims arising out of the vesting , administration and disposal of the property referred to in this article .
ARTICLE VI Property in Korea of United Nations nationals , which was seized , confiscated or sequestered by the Imperial Japanese Government under its wartime regulations , together with property in Korea of other persons which was treated by the Imperial Japanese Government as enemy property, and which is transferred to the Government of the Republic of Korea under the provisions of Article V, will be protected and preserved by the Government of the Republic of Korea pending its return to its rightful owners , provided such owners request the return of the property within a reasonable period . The Government of the Republic of Korea undertakes to return all such identifiable property , if not otherwise provided for by mutual agreement between the owner and the Government of the Republic of Korea. Continuing the policy initiated by the United States Army Military Government in Korea , the Government of

   ,                ,  

    ,      ,         ,      

     )      , ,            ,            )   

Property seized by Imperial Japanese Government .

   ,   

    ,          )        , 

Ante, p.3429.

  ,     

   ,     

       ,     

   ,     - 

 

      



   ,

      )

   

 ,    

3432

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

the Republic of Korea undertakes to com-

pensate the owners for damage or loss to

such property during the period that it was not under the control of such owners ,

to the same degree as compensation is

paid by the Government of the Republic of

Korea for loss or damage to Korean property seized , confiscated or seques-

tered for war purposes by the Imperial Japanese Government , its agencies , instrumentalities , or its nationals . The

Government of the Republic of Korea hereby relieves the Government of the United

States of America from liability for any claim arising out of the administration of property referred to

this Article prior to the effective

date of this agreement.

ARTICLE VII

U.S. liquidation of
debt for power furnished by Soviet authorities .

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea agree to

collaborate in arranging a satisfactory

settlement of any unpaid debt owing to the Soviet authorities in Korea for

          ),                       ),     ,    2    ,  2.    , ,  ,      ,           ,  ,             .   ,  
    )               ,    ,  ,  
        ,        ),       1 )                

power furnished for the Korean economy from September 9 , 1945 , to the effective date of this Agreement . The Government of the United States of America further agrees to liquidate this debt , whenever a fair value of the unpaid debt has been

  

 

     

   

      ,



62 STAT. ] KOREA- FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT-SEPT. 11 , 1948

3433

agreed upon by the representatives of the Soviet and United States authori-

ties:

ARTICLE VIII The Government of the United States of America, through the United States Army Military Government in Korea, has reimbursed Korea at a fair dollar value for all goods , services and facilities provided for and to

the United States Army Forces in Korea from the Korean economy for the period from September 9 , 1945 , through June 30, 1948, inclusive ; and for all claims of every kind and description

against the Government of the United

States

America, its officials ,

employees , or agencies and instrumentali-

ties , raised or which may be raised by

the Government of the Republic of Korea,

its nationals , or other individuals and

organizations , as & result of the oc-

cupation of Korea by the United States

Army Forces in Korea during such period.

The Government of the Republic of Korea agrees that this payment constitutes full , final and complete settlement for all goods and services used by or provided to the United States Army Forces in korea during the aforementioned period, and for all claims of every kind

      

     ,        ,        )  )   ,     ,      )     ,   ,           ,        ,      ,    

Claims resulting
from occupation by U.S. troops.

   ,     ,      ,  .2 
  ,  ,  ) ,      )   )   ,      ,       ,  ,  )        ,      ,   ,)      ,    . -  )       ,   , -               7)  )  ,

3434

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

and description against the Government of the United States of America , ite of-

 ,         

ficials , employees , or agencies and instrumentalities , raised or which may be raised by the Government of the Republic of Korea , its instrumentalities , nationals , or other individuals or organizations as a result of the occupation of Korea by the United States Army Forces for the period from September 9 , 1945 , through June 30 , 1948 . The Government
of the Republic of Korea further discharges and agrees to save harmless , the Government of the United States of

       ,   ,   ,       ,        ,      .   
o )     

  



    

    , 

America, its officials , employees , or agencies and instrumentalities , its nationals or other individuals and

organizations , from all claims of every

kind and description arising as a result

of the occupation of Korea by the United

States Army Forces in Korea during the period prior to July 1 , 1948 . The

Government of the Republic of Forea

hereby recognizes and ratifies the agreement under which the abovementioned payment to Korea WEB ef-

fected .

Bank of Chosun , funding account .

The Government of the Republic of Korea also assumes and relieves the

Government of the United States of America of all liability for funds used

            ,  ,   ,  ,   ,               , 
         , 

  )         , 

     







      

62 STAT. ] KOREA- FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT-SEPT. 11, 1948

3435

from the overdraft account at the Bank
of Chosun entitled "United States Army Military Government in Korea Funding Account . " The Government of the Republic
1 of Korea agrees that the Commanding General , United States Army Forces in Korea shall continue to draw won from the overdraft account at the Bank of
Chosun presently entitled "United States Army Military Government in Korea Funding hccount No. 2" and the Government of the United States of America hereby agrees to pay to the Government of the Republic of Korea in dollars or other United States assets .

()   , -        

     ,  

     ,  

 

 

  ,      ,   

    

    

,  ,  

~      

     ,



the fair dollar value of all goods and services procured in the Kacen economy with won drawn from such account .
ARTICLE IX a. In consideration for certain property heretofore furnished to the Korean economy by the Government of the United States of America through the Office of the Foreign

             

£ ons,

on fås do .

 (37)    ,       

Payment for U.S. furnished property.
Post, p. 3443.

      

Liquidation Commissioner of the United States Department of State and the United States Army Military Government in Korea , including the

              


net proceeds in Korean currency arising from the sale of such property ,

   ,        ,

3436

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

the Government of the Republic of Korea

agrees to pay to the Government

the

United States of America in the man-

ner provided in the terms of this Article ,

the fair value of said property , not to exceed the equivalent of $25,000,000 as

      
    )     1    ,           ()     

shown on the records of said Foreign Liquidation Commissioner , covering the transfer of such property to the United States Army Military Government in Korea.

       · t 5. 1. 2. 5. II,     

Interest shall accrue at the rate of

-     , 

2-3/8 per centum per annum from July 1 , 1948 , on the unpaid balance of the total fair value of said property, and shall be due and payable in Korean currency on July 1 , of each year , the first payment
to be made on July 1 , 1949 . b. At such times and in such amounts
as shall be specified by the Government of the United States of America . the Government of the Republic of Korea shall pay in Korean currency all or part of the balance then due under the indebtedness set forth in this Article , including interest due and unpaid, if any , less any credits
made for property as provided in paragraph d of this Article , and the Government of the United States of

   ,       ,  

            , -         (4).)       .2   





 () 

    , 

         ,   

     ,  ( )   )   



    ,

   ,   

America shall credit the balance due under such indebtedness with the

     

 

  

62 STAT. ] KOREA- FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 11, 1948

3437

United States dollar equivalent of such currency . Any currency so received by the Government of the United States of America shall be used in accordance with the provisions set fortb in paragraph cof this article .
C. The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea agree that the Korean currency to be received by the Government of the United States of America as provided in paragraph b of this Article, as well as the Korean currency to be received by the Government of the United States of America as interest provided in paragraph a of this Article , shall be expended in Korea and may be used for the payment of any or all expenditures in Korea of the Government of the United States of America, including expenditures for:
(1) Such educational programs as may be mutually agreed upon by the two Governments, and
(2) the acquisition of property located in Korea , elther real or personal , tangible or intangible , including inprovements to any property in which the Government of the United States of America has an interest . Such property

  

4) .



  

   ),    

 -  ,  (  )

  ()   ,

 ,  

( 57- )               (4 )  )   ok ,      

    (  )  )     

        ,    

  

 ,

     

 

  ,

     



 ,     

 

  

Korean currency payments expendable in Korea.
Ante, p. 3435.

( )

  

    

()     
 ,      
     , 

     



 

3438

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Post, p. 3443.

shall include initially the property listed in the Supplement to this Agree-
ment . d. At the request of the Govern-

    ,

 

 

      

(27-)

 

ment of the United States of America , the Government of the Republic of Korea

    

shall deliver title to such property as may, by mutual agreement , be acquired by



  

the Government of the United States of America in accordance with the terms of this Article . Upon the delivery of title to such property by the Government of the Republic of Korea to the Government of the United States of America,
the Government of the United States of America shall credit the account of the Government of the Republic of Korea under this Article with the agreed-upon fair-dollar value of such property.
g. Except as may be provided by special agreement between the two Governments , the Government of the United States of America shall not request the Government of the Republic of Korea to make payment in Korean currency or to deliver title to property located in Forea, as provided in paragraphs b and d
of this Article , the CoLbined total

 ,     



 

   (2 ) 



,  

   (2 )  

   

# 2.     

 



     (012)    ) 
         )    ,      (121)
11/13 (47) J13 ( 21 ) = (x)

    ,   2)       ,              

amount of which exceeds in any single fiscal year beginning July 1 , the equivalent value of $ 5,000,000 plus

 -)    ,



62 STAT. ] KOREA-FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 11, 1948

3439

interest due and payable as provided in paragraph a of this Article.
1. The won equivalent of the dollar obligations assumed by the Government of the Republic of Korea under the terms of this Agreement shall be calculated by mutual agreement between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Government of the United States of America, such calculations to be made immediately prior to each payment. The won equivalent in any case shall be no less favorable to the Government of the United States of America than the conversion rate legally available to any third party at the time of each transaction.
ARTICLE I The Government of the Republic of Korea hereby agrees that it will not permit the re-export or diversion of equipment , supplies and other property furnished to it by the Government of the United States of America under the terms of this Agreement unless such reexport or diversion is approved by a duly authorized representative of the Government of the United States of America.

1.  ( ) ) 

( )      ,   

        , 

     

    

64 )  ,  

)

2.  ,    )    

      2. ,

     ,  

      ,   

   



    

 



Prohibition of re-
export of supplies, etc., furnished by

   ,     ,    

   ,   

         )



  

3440

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Continuation of existing laws.

ARTICLE XI The Government of the Republic of Korea agrees to continue in full force and effect all existing laws , ordinances , public acts , and regulations of the United States Army Military Government

     , 

  

 



,  -  

 ,  

       

in Korea and/or of the South Korean

    :

Interim Government until repealed or amended by the Government of the Republic

of Korea.

ARTICLE XII

Rights and privileges of U.N.nation-
als and firms.

Pending negotiation of mutually satisfactory treaties of amity and com-

merce , it is agreed by the contracting

parties that the rights and privileges now enjoyed by United Nations nationals

and firms engaged in lawful pursuits in

Korea shall be respected and affirmed .

,
          
           
·    ,             )     ,  ,     

Time limit for transfer of control.

ARTICLE XIII Administrative control over the accounts , properties , and operating facilities transferred to the Government of

the Republic of Korea under the terms of this Agreement shall be turned over

in a progressive and orderly manner to the authorized officials of the Govern-

ment of the Republic of Korea within 30 days from the effective date of this Agreement , or as rapidly as the Govern-

ment of the Republic of Korea is pre-

     

,

       ,     2)     ,  

     ),  , 

   ,        )  



 ,   

 , ,      

pared to assume such operations and

      .

62 STAT. ] KOREA- FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT- SEPT. 11, 1948

3441

responsibilities , except that adminis,rative control over vested properties and over relief and rehabilitation supplies shall be turned over not later than 90 days from the effective date of this Agreement , or as rapidly as the Government of the Republic of Korea is prepared to assume such operations and responsibilities .
ARTICLE XIV Until such time as the United States Army Forces in Korea are withdrawn from Korea , the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea agree that they shall be bound by, and shall respect all agreements previously made between the United States Army Forces in Korea and the several Departments of the United States Army Kilitary Government in Korea concerning the use of certain transportation , com munication, and other facilities and services by the United States Army Forces in Korea.

     



   ,

     

    ,   ,

  

      

   ),    

·

"    

 ,   



   ,

 ,   









   

          0 ) )  - 

Transportation , etc. , for U.S. Army.





1305

The present Agreement shall become effective with the formal notification to the Government of the United States of America that the Korean National Assembly has consented to this Agreement. [1]

   

Effective date.

 

 

,    

  

1By note of Sept. 20, 1948, the Korean Minister of Foreign Affairs notified the American Ambassador at Seoul that ". . . the agreement which has been signed
between our two delegates was duly rectified [ ratified ] by the National Assembly of Korea on the 18th of September 1948. "

3442

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Prevailing text.

Done in duplicate , in the English and Korean languages at Seoul , Korea, this 11th day of September 1948 . The English and the Korean texts shall have equal force , but in the case of divergence, the English text shall prevail .
For the Government of the United States of America:
[]1

   
    H                       ,     ,     
 

For the Government of the Republic of Korea:

 

Lee,kumsuk. (3) [SEAL]

J.S.Chan Chang "

3  4 10 

[SEAL]

' John J. Muccio. 'Lee, Bumsuk. ' T. S. Chang.

62 STAT. ] KOREA FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT --SEPT. 11 , 1948

3443

SUPPLEMENT TO THE INITIAL FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT
This Agreement between the Government of the United States of America, bereinafter called " United States , " and the Government of the Republic of Korea, hereinafter called " Korea" is supplementel to the "Initial Financial and Property Settlement , " Article IX, this date , and covers the transfer of real property in return for surplus property furnished Zorca .
Witnesseth : Whereas , the " Initial Financial and Property Settlement " between Korea and the United States provides in Article IX that at the request of the United States , Korea skall deliver title to such property located in Korea in which the United States has an interest , and Whereas , Korea has agreed in Section d of the Article of the Agreement above referred to , to make available property desired by the United States at prices to be agreed upon by the Governments , and Whereas , the United States has already selected certain properties which it desires to receive under the terms of the Agreement referred to above , Kow, therefore , it is agreed:

      
   (  " " ()     )     (   "    )   )  
   16      ()   
"  
 0-1)     )

Ante, p. 3435.

     ) "         

(14)

         ,

A (21)

Herod, #

 ,        

     

     

Ante, p.3438.

  , )      ,   ,   )  

68706-52- PT. III- -53

3444

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Transfer of proper. ties.

1. That Korea transfer , on or bout the sixtieth day from the effective

date of this Agreement , to the United

States , at prices to be specified in

dollars and to be determined by three

recognized appraisere , one of whom

shall be nominated by Korea , one by the

United States , and the Chairman by the

()              , 
      )          )                   ,      ,         

two appraisers first chosen , properties including but not limited to the follow-
ing :
(A) Dependent House & Lot No. 10 1-39 Chong Dong 1,362 Pyung

  ,  .   
     ,   
5) 2107-405 .
(1)             

( B) Russian No. 1 1-39 Chong Dong 720 Pying
(C ) Vacant lot west of present U. S. Consulate 1-9 Chong Dong 1,414 Pyung

(2 )      
  (4)  
     

( D ) Vacant lots south of present U. S. Coneulate ; part of the road now running beside the U.S. Consulate leading to the property of the Seoul Club 8-1, 8-3, 8-4 , 8-5 , 8-6 , 6-7 , 8-8 , 8-9 , 8-10 , and 8-17 Chong Dong 535.40 Pyung

( )    
     ,   )  ,  ) ,  , ,  ) ,  ) 


(E) Triangular lot directly east of DH No. 10 and Russian No. 1 . together with one warehouse , three houses and other buildings thereon 1-39 Chong Dong Sawdai Moon Koo
1.675 Pyung

(072)      

      ÷   
    )     

 

( F ) All of former Military Government Area #2 , consisting of approximately 43 houses , miscellaneous other buildings ,

(  )         
   ,     ID.

62 STAT.] KOREA-FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY SETTLEMENT -SEPT. 11 , 1948

3445

and the land on which situated . This is intended to include all property owned by the Siksan Bank in this area. All of 49-1 Song Hyun Dong , and all of 96 , 97-2 , 98 , 99 , 102 , 103-1 , 104-1 and 104-2 of Sakan Dong together with all buildings thereon . 9,915 Pyung , more or less .
( G ) Banto Hotel and adjacent parking lot to East 180-2 Ulch1 - Ro Chongno Koo 1,944 Pyung

,  20   
   
   )   ,   ,      ,  9.
()    ,   ( 7)                 .    .

In witness whereof the undersigned ,

    ,    

duly authorized by their respective governments , have signed the present agreement in the English and Korean languages at Seoul , Korea , on the 11th day of September 1948 .

%      



-  

     H  1 

    

(4)  :

The English and Korean texts shall

    

have equal force , but in case of divergence .    )  ,   

Prevailing text.

the English text shall prevail . For the Government of the United
States of America :

   ,    .  ,

The Mucus

[ ']
! @ @

For the Government of the Republic of Korea :
[2] Lee,Bumsuk
[SEAL ]

  

[ 3]
  ' John J. Muccio. ' Lee, Bumsuk. 'T. S. Chang.

3446

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

EXHIBIT A

Properties for temporary U.S. use.

Properties to be made available

by the Government of the Republic of

Korea for the temporary use of the

Government of the United States under

free leaseholds , will include but will

not be limited to the following :
(A) Specified 51 houses and lots in the three military areas #1 , #2 and #7.

(B) DH 9 , DH #109 , DH #143 , DH #218 , DH #221 , Billet #5, Billet #10 and Billet #11 in scattered areas .

(C ) Mitsui Building and lot opposite Banto Hotel .

(D) OCI Information Center end lot (former Metropolitan Police building ) .

(E) Special Troops area.

(F) 216th Quartermaster con- crete warehouse in area
near South Gate .

(G) 56 houses and lots in 7th Division area (Camp Sobingo) .

(H) 57 housing units in Capitol grounds area .

( I ) Billet #32 (Kookje Hotel ) und Billet $24 ( Suão Hotel ) .

(J) Billet #23 ( Nai Ja Apartments ) comprising three buildings .
(K) Billet $38 (Plaza Hotel )

(L) Yong Dong, Po dependent housing area #1 , consisting of 8 usable houses
and 15 apartments .

 

  





   

      

   , 



2)

( )       

(  )     
.        (Cr)      
1(227 )       (   )
():)       ()     )   
    
(4 )      (   )

(01 )      ( )   
( )       ( )    (    )
44   

(7 )            #a¥ 2) ·  - S .

62 STAT. ] PARAGUAY- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- JUNE 30 , 1948

3447

Agreement between the United States of America and Paraguay respecting a cooperative educational program in Paraguay, extending the agreement of March 8, 1948, between Paraguay and the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Asunción June 30, 1948; entered into force August 2, 1948.

June 30, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1856)

The American Ambassador to the Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship

No. 60

ASUNCIÓN, June 30, 1948.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs dated March 8, 1848 which provided for the continuation of the coopera-

Ante, p. 2827.

tive education program in Paraguay theretofore undertaken by the

Government of Paraguay and the Inter-American Educational Foun-

dation, Inc., the predecessor of The Institute of Inter-American
Extension of agreeAffairs. I also refer to the telegram dated June 14, 1948 from His ment.

Excellency the Provisional President of Paraguay, Dr. Juan Manuel

Frutos, to President Harry S. Truman, suggesting the consideration

by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Basic

Agreement. As Your Excellency knows, the agreement of March 8, 1948, pro-

Ante, p. 2827.

vides that the cooperative education program will terminate on June

30, 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with

the Government of Paraguay that an extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1948, through June 30, 1949. It would be

Duration. Additional funds.

understood that, during such period of extension , the Institute would

make a contribution of $26,224 U. S. Cy. to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute

to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of 220,680 . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make

available an amount not exceeding $61,557 U. S. Cy. to be retained by

the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio , for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Education Division Field Staff, who are maintained by the Institute

in Paraguay. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the

program .

3448

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Entry into force.

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government , I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the
extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Education and The Institute of Inter- American Affairs.
The Government of the United States of America will consider
the present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which will come into force on the date of signature [1] of an agreement by the Minister of Education of Paraguay and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above mentioned technical details.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my most distinguished consideration .
FLETCHER WARREN American Ambassador
His Excellency VÍCTOR MORÍNIGO, Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship, Asunción .

The Paraguayan Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

D. P. y D.No. 667.-
SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

ASUNCIÓN, 30 de Junio de 1948.-

Tengo el honor de dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia , acusando recibo de la nota Nº 60, fechada el día de hoy, en la que al hacer referencia al Acuerdo Básico celebrado entre la República del Paraguay y el InIstituto de Asuntos Interamericanos fechado el 8 de Marzo de 1948,

en el cual se dispuso la continuación del programa de educación en el Paraguay y la Fundación Interamericana de Educación, Inc., pre-

decesora del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos y al telegrama fechado el 14 de Junio de 1948 de Su Excelencia, el Presidente Provisional del Paraguay, Dr. Juan Manuel Frutos, al Presidente Harry S. Truman, sugiriendo la deliberación por nuestros Gobiernos respectivos de una prórroga adicional de ese Acuerdo Básico, Vuestra Excelencia expresa que considerando los beneficios mútuos que ambos gobiernos obtienen del programa , su Gobierno acuerda con el Gobierno

del Paraguay que una prórroga de tal programa sería deseable. Al respecto, me es grato llevar a conocimiento de Vuestra Excelencia

¹ Aug. 2 , 1948.

62 STAT. ] PARAGUAY-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JUNE 30, 1948
que transmitida la citada nota al Ministerio de Educación , esa Secretaría de Estado ha comunicado a esta Cancillería, que está conforme en prorrogar el citado Acuerdo Básico. -
Aprovecho la oportunidad para saludar a Vuestra Excelencia con mi consideración distinguida. -
VÍCTOR MORÍNIGO A Su Excelencia
El Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Honor. FLETCHER WARREN Presente. -

3449

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS AND WORSHIP
D. P. y D.No. 667.

ASUNCIÓN, June 30, 1948.-

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to address Your Excellency in order to acknowledge receipt of Note No. 60 , of this date, in which, with reference to the Basic Agreement concluded between the Republic of Paraguay and the Institute of Inter- American Affairs, dated March 8, 1948 , in

which Agreement provisions were made for the continuation of the

educational program in Paraguay and the Inter-American Educa-

tional Foundation , Inc., the predecessor of the Institute of Inter-

American Affairs, and in referring to the telegram, dated June 14 ,

1948, from His Excellency Juan Manuel Frutos, Provisional Presi-

dent of Paraguay, to President Harry S. Truman, suggesting the

consideration by our respective Governments of an additional exten-

sion of that Basic Agreement, Your Excellency states that, in view of the mutual benefits which both Governments are obtaining from

that program , your Government agrees with the Government of

Paraguay that an extension of that program would be desirable.

With reference thereto, I take pleasure in informing Your Excel-

lency that when the above-mentioned note had been transmitted to

the Ministry of Education, that Ministry informed this Chancelry

that it is agreeable to an extension of the above-mentioned Basic Agreement.

I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the

assurances of my distinguished consideration.

VÍCTOR MORÍNIGO

His Excellency FLETCHER WARREN,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of The United States of America, City. -

Ante, p. 3447. Ante, p. 2827.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- OCT. 8, 1948 3451

Agreement between the United States of America and Belgium and Luxembourg respecting a United States Educational Foundation in Belgium. Signed at Brussels October 8, 1948; entered into force October 8, 1948.

October 8, 1948 (T. I. A. S. 1860]

ACCORD POUR LE FINANCEMENT D'UN PROGRAMME
CULTUREL ET EDUCATIF ENTRE LES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE ,
D'UNE PART, ET LA BELGIQUE ET LE GRAND-DUCHE
DE LUXEMBOURG , D'AUTRE PART,
SIGNE A BRUXELLES, LE 8 OCTOBRE 1948 .

AGREEMENT FOR THE FINANCING OF A CULTURAL
AND EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMME BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ,
ON THE ONE HAND, AND BELGIUM AND THE GRAND DUCHY
OF LUXEMBOURG , ON THE OTHER HAND , SIGNED IN BRUSSELS ON OCTOBER 8th 1948.
68706-52-- PT. III-- -54

3452

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ACCORD ENTRE LE GOU- AGREEMENT BETWEEN VERNEMENT DES ETATS- THE GOVERNMENT OF

UNIS D'AMERIQUE D'UNE PART ET LES GOUVERNEMENTS BELGE ET LUXEM-

THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ON THE ONE HAND AND THE GOVERN-

BOURGEOIS D'AUTRE  POUR L'UTILISA-

MENTS OF BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG ON THE

TION DES FONDS RENDUS DISPONIBLES AUX TER-

OTHER HAND FOR THE USE OF FUNDS MADE

MES DU PARAGRAPHE 2A AVAILABLE IN ACCORD-

(2) DE LA CONVENTION SUR LE REGLEMENT DE PRET-BAIL , AIDE RECIPROQUE, PLAN A, STOCKS EXCEDENTAIRES ET RE-

ANCE WITH PARAGRAPH 2A (2) OF THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING SETTLEMENT FOR LEND LEASE ,

Post, p. 3985.

CLAMATIONS, DU 24 SEPTEMBRE 1946 .
Le Gouvernement des Etats-

RECIPROCAL AID, PLAN A, SURPLUS PROPERTY, AND CLAIMS OF SEPTEMBER 24, 1946 . The Government of the United

Unis d'Amérique d'une part et les States of America on the one hand

Gouvernements belge et luxem- and the Governments of Belgium

bourgeois, d'autre part:

and Luxembourg on the other hand :

Désirant favoriser davantage Desiring to promote further

encore l'entente entre les peuples mutual understanding between the

des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de la peoples of the United States of

Belgique, du Congo Belge et du America and Belgium, the Bel-

Luxembourg par un échange plus gian Congo, and Luxembourg by

étendu de connaissances et de a wider exchange of knowledge

compétences professionnelles dans and professional talents in the

les domaines éducatifs ;

field of education ;

Considérant que la section 32 (b) Considering that Section 32 (b)

de la loi de 1944 sur les stocks of the United States Surplus

6500St.at. 375.4.c. app. § 1641 (b).

excédentaires américains , amendée Property Act of 1944 , as amended par la "Public Law" n° 584, 79e by Public Law No 584, 79th
Congrès, prévoit que le Secrétaire Congress , provides that the Secre-

d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique tary of State of the United States

peut conclure des accords avec des of America may enter into an Gouvernements étrangers pour agreement with any foreign govl'utilisation de fonds ou de crédits ernment for the use of currencies,

libellés en la monnaie de ces or credits for currencies, of such

Gouvernements étrangers, acquis foreign government, acquired as a

à la suite de la liquidation de result of surplus property dis-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-OCT. 8, 1948

3453

stocks excédentaires, à de cer- posals, for certain educational taines activités d'ordre éducatif ; et activities ; and

Considérant qu'en vertu des Considering that under the pro-

dispositions de la Convention visions of the Memorandum of

conclue entre le Gouvernement Understanding between the Gov-

des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le ernment of the United States of

Gouvernement belge sur le régle- America and the Government of

ment de prêt-bail, aide réciproque, Belgium regarding settlement for Plan A, stocks excédentaires et Lend Lease, Reciprocal Aid, Plan

réclamations, signée à Washing- A, Surplus Property, and claims, ton le 24 septembre 1946 , lorsque signed at Washington on Septemle Gouvernement des Etats-Unis ber 24, 1946 , it is provided that

en fera la demande, le Gouverne- as and when requested by the

ment belge réservera des francs United States Government, the

belges jusqu'à concurrence d'une Belgian Government will provide valeur de $3.000.000 , qui seront Belgian francs up to an aggregate utilisés exclusivement à la réalisa- value of $3,000,000, which will be

tion de programmes d'ordre cul- used exclusively to carry out

turel et éducatif ,

cultural and educational programs,

Sont convenus de ce qui suit :

Have agreed as follows:

Post, p. 3984.

Article 1.

Article 1 .

Il sera créé une fondation ap-

There shall be established a United States Educational Foundation

pelée "United States Educational foundation to be known as the in Belgium.

Foundation in Belgium" (appelée United States Educational Foun-

dans le présent accord , la "Foun- dation in Belgium (hereinafter desdation") qui sera reconnue par le ignated "the Foundation") which Gouvernement des Etats-Unis shall be recognized by the Govern-

d'Amérique et par les Gouverne- ment of the United States of ments belge et luxembourgeois America and the Governments of

comme une organisation créée et Belgium and Luxembourg as an établie en vue de faciliter l'exécu- organization created and estabtion du programme d'éducation à lished to facilitate the administra-

financer au moyen de fonds fournis tion of the Educational program par le Gouvernement belge aux to be financed by funds made termes du présent accord . Sous available by the Government of

réserve des dispositions de l'article Belgium under the terms of the 3 du présent accord , la Fondation present agreement. Except as ne sera pas soumise à la législation provided in Article 3 hereof the

Post, p. 3456.

nationale et locale des Etats-Unis Foundation shall be exempt from d'Amérique et des Gouvernements the domestic and local laws of the

belge et luxembourgeois en ce qui United States of America and the concerne l'utilisation des fonds et Governments of Belgium and Lux-

crédits aux fins prévues par le embourg as they relate to the use présent accord. Tous les fonds and expenditures of currencies, fournis par le Gouvernement belge, and credits for currencies, for the dans les conditions et limites purposes set forth in the present
spécifiées ci-après , seront utilisés agreement. All of the funds made par la Fondation ou tout autre available by the Government of

Use offunds.

organisme dont conviendraient le Belgium, within the conditions

3454

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Gouvernement des Etats-Unis and limitations hereinafter set

d'Amérique et le Gouvernement forth, shall be used by the Founbelge, aux fins suivantes, ainsi dation or such other instrumental-

qu'il est prévu à la section 32 (b) ity as may be agreed upon by the de la loi des Etats-Unis sur les Government of the United States

stocks excédentaires , de 1944 , of America and the Government

amendée :

of Belgium for the purpose, as set

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app.
§ 1641 (b).

forth in Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended, of

(1 ) Financement d'études, de re- ( 1 ) financing studies, research, in-

cherches , d'enseignement et

struction, and other educa-

autres activités d'ordre édu-

tional activities of or for

catif, de citoyens des EtatsUnis dans des écoles et in-

citizens of the United States of America in schools and

stituts supérieurs situés en

institutions of higher learning

Belgique, au Congo Belge et au Luxembourg, ou de nationaux de Belgique, du Congo Belge et du Luxembourg dans des écoles et instituts supérieurs américains situés en dehors des Etats-Unis continentaux, des Iles Hawaï, de

located in Belgium , the Belgian Congo, and Luxembourg or of the nationals of Belgium, the Belgian Congo , and Luxembourg in United States schools and institutions of higher learning located outside the continental United

l'Alaska (y compris les Iles Aléoutiennes ), de Porto Rico et des Iles Vierges , y compris le payement des frais de trans-
port, des frais d'enseignement , de l'entretien et autres frais inhérents à l'activité scolaire ; ou

States, Hawaii, Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands) , Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, including payment for transportation, tuition, maintenance, and other expenses incident to scholastic activities ; or

(2) transport des nationaux de (2) furnishing transportation for

Belgique, du Congo Belge et

nationals of Belgium, the Bel-

du Luxembourg qui désirent

gian Congo, and Luxembourg

fréquenter des écoles et in-

who desire to attend United

stituts supérieurs des EtatsUnis situés dans les Etats-

States schools and institutions of higher learning in the

Unis continentaux, les Iles

continental United States,

Hawaï, l'Alaska (y compris les Iles Aléoutiennes), Porto

Hawaii , Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands) , Puerto

Rico et les Iles Vierges et dont l'admission , dans ces écoles et instituts ne privera pas des citoyens des Etats-
Unis d'Amérique de la possibilité d'y être admis euxmêmes .

Rico, and the Virgin Islands and whose attendance will not deprive citizens of the United States of America of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- OCT. 8, 1948 3455

Article 2.

Article 2.

Pour atteindre les objectifs dont

In furtherance of the afore- Powers of Founda tion.

il est question plus haut, la Fonda- mentioned purpose, the Founda-

tion peut, sous réserve des disposi- tion may, subject to the provisions tions de l'article 10 du présent ac- of Article 10 of the present agre-

Post, p. 3459.

cord, exercer tous les pouvoirs né- ment, exercise all powers necescessaires à la réalisation des fins sary to the carrying out of the

du présent accord et notamment : purposes of the present agreement

including the following:

(1 ) recevoir des fonds ;

(1) Receive funds.

(2) ouvrir et utiliser, au nom de la Fondation, des comptes auprès d'une ou de plusieurs banques à désigner par le Secrétaire d'Etat des EtatsUnis d'Amérique ;

(2) Open and operate bank accounts in the name of the Foundation in a depository
or depositories to be designated by the Secretary of State of the United States of

America ;

(3) débourser des fonds et ac- (3) Disburse funds and make

corder des subventions et

grants and advances of funds

avances de fonds aux fins

for the authorized purposes

autorisées de la Fondation ;

of the Foundation .

(4) acquérir, détenir et disposer (4) Acquire, hold , and dispose of

de biens au nom de la Fonda-

property in the name of the

tion lorsque le Conseil d'administration de la Fondation

Foundation as the Board of Directors of the Foundation

le juge nécessaire ou désirable, à la condition, cependant, que l'acquisition de biens immobiliers soit préalablement approuvée par le Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis ;

may consider necessary or desirable, provided however, that the acquisition of any
property shall be subject to the prior approval of the Secretary of State of the

United States of America.

(5) élaborer, adopter et exécuter (5) Plan, adopt, and carry out

des programmes en conformi-

programs in accordance with

té avec les buts visés à la section 32 (b) de la loi des EtatsUnis sur les stocks excédentaires , 1944 , amendée, et avec les buts du présent accord ;

the purposes of Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as 60 Stat. 754.
50 U. S. C. app. amended, and the purposes of § 1641 (b).
the present agreement.

(6) recommander auprès du (6) Recommend to the Board of

"Board of Foreign Scholarships " prévu à la loi des EtatsUnis sur les stocks excédentaires , 1944 , amendée, des

Foreign Scholarships provided

for in the United States Sur-

plus Property Act of 1944 , as

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app.

amended, students, professors, § 1641 (b).

étudiants , des professeurs , des savants se livrant à des re-

research scholars , resident in Belgium, the Belgian Congo,

cherches scientifiques résidant en Belgique, au Congo Belge,

and Luxembourg, and institutions of Belgium, the Belgian

au Luxembourg, ainsi que des

Congo, and Luxembourg qual-

3456

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

institutions de Belgique, du Congo Belge et du Luxembourg qui ont les qualités re-

ified to participate in the programs in accordance with aforesaid Act.

quises pour participer à l'exécution des programmes con-

formément à la loi précitée ;

(7) recommander au "Board of (7) Recommend to the aforesaid

Foreign Scholarships " désigné

Board of Foreign Scholarships

ci-dessus, en vue du choix des personnes appelées à participer à l'exécution des programmes, les titres que la Fondation

such qualifications for the selection of participants in the programs as it may deem necessary for achieving the

jugera nécessaires aux fins et objectifs de la Fondation ;

purpose and objectives of the Foundation .

(8) veiller à la vérification pério- (8 ) Provide for periodic audits of

dique des comptes de la Fon-

the accounts of the Founda-

dation selon les instructions

tion as directed by the audi-

des vérificateurs désignés par

tors selected by the Secretary

le Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-

of State of the United States

Unis d'Amérique ;

of America.

(9) engager le personnel admi- (9) Engage administrative and

nistratif, fixer ses émoluments

clerical staff and fix and pay

et les payer.

the salaries and wages thereof.

Annual budget.

Article 8.

Article 3.

Toutes les dépenses de la Fonda- All expenditures by the Foundation seront imputées à un budget tion shall be made pursuant to an annuel à approuver par le Secré- annual budget to be approved by taire d'Etat des Etats-Unis the Secretary of State of the
d'Amérique, conformément aux United States of America pursuant instructions qu'il pourra prescrire. to such regulations as he may
prescribe .

Article 4.

Article 4.

La Fondation ne souscrira aucun The Foundation shall not enter

engagement et ne contractera au- into any commitment or create cune obligation qui engageraient any obligation which shall bind la Fondation au delà des fonds the Foundation in excess of the réellement disponibles et elle n'ac- funds actually on hand nor ac-

querra, détiendra ou disposera de quire, hold , or dispose of property

biens qu'aux seules fins autorisées except for the purposes authorized

par le présent accord .

in the present agreement.

Board of Directors.

Article 5.

Article 5.

L'administration et la direction The management and direction des affaires de la Fondation seront of the affairs of the Foundation assurées par un Conseil d'adminis- shall be vested in a Board of

tration composé de huit adminis- Directors consisting of eight di-

trateurs (appelé "Conseil" dans la rectors (hereinafter designated the

suite du présent accord) .

"Board").

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- OCT. 8, 1948 3457

Honorary ChairLe membre principal en fonc- The principal officer in charge man.

tions de la Mission Diplomatique of the Diplomatic Mission of the

des Etats-Unis en Belgique (appelé United States of America to Bel"Chef de Mission" dans la suite gium (hereinafter designated de l'accord ) sera Président Hono- "Chief of Mission ") shall be

raire du Conseil. Il pourra nom- Honorary Chairman of the Board.

mer et démettre les membres du He shall have the power of ap-

Conseil, sous réserve qu'aucun pointment and removal of mem-

autre membre que les citoyens bers of the Board, except that américains faisant partie du Con- no members , other than the United seil, ne pourra être démis sans States citizens on the Board , shall

consultation préalable du Ministre be removed without prior conbelge de l'Instruction Publique. sultation with the Belgian Min-
ister of Education . Les membres du Conseil seront The members of the Board

Members of Board.

les suivants: (a) trois membres du shall be as follows : (a) Three

personnel de l'Ambassade, dont members of the Embassy staff,

un sera président et dont un sera one of whom shall serve as Chair-

trésorier ; (b) deux citoyens des man, and one of whom shall serve

Etats-Unis d'Amérique dont l'un as Treasurer ; (b) two citizens of

représentera le monde américain the United States of America,

des affaires en Belgique et l'autre one representative of American

les intérêts américains en matière business interests in Belgium , and

d'éducation en Belgique ; et (c) one representative of American

trois citoyens belges ou luxem- educational interests in Belgium ,

bourgeois dont l'un sera une per- and (c) three citizens of Belgium,

sonalité éminente en matière d'en- or of Luxembourg, one of whom

seignement .

shall be prominent in the field of

education .

Les cinq membres désignés sous The five members specified in

(b) et (c) du dernier paragraphe (b) and (c) of the last preceding précédent résideront en Belgique paragraph shall be resident in Belou au Luxembourg et exerceront gium or Luxembourg and shall

leurs fonctions depuis la date de serve from the time of their apleur nomination jusqu'au 31 dé- pointment until the succeeding cembre suivant cette nomination. December 31 next following such Leur mandat pourra être renou- appointment. They shall be elivelé. Les membres américains se- gible for reappointment . The ront nommés par le Chef de la United States members shall be

Mission ; les membres belges ou designated by the Chief of Misluxembourgeois seront choisis par sion ; the Belgian or Luxembourg le Chef de la Mission parmi les members by the Chief of Mission

personnalités figurant sur une liste from a list of names submitted by présentée par le Gouvernement the Government of Belgium. Vabelge. Il sera pourvu selon les cancies by reason of resignations, modalités précitées aux vacances transfers of residence outside of résultant de démission, de trans- Belgium or Luxembourg, expira-

fert de résidence en dehors de la tion of term of service, or other-

Belgique ou du Luxembourg, d'ex- wise shall be filled in accordance

3458

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

piration du mandat ou d'une autre with this procedure. raison.
Les administrateurs ne seront The Directors shall serve with-
pas rétribués , mais la Fondation out compensation , but the Founest autorisée à rembourser les dé- dation is authorized to pay the necpenses occasionnées aux adminis- essary expenses of the Directors in trateurs par leur présence aux ré- attending meetings of the Board . unions du Conseil.

By-laws, etc.

Article 6.

Article 6.

Le Conseil prescrira tels régle- The Board shall adopt such by-

ments et nommera telles commis- laws and appoint such committees

sions qui pourraient être jugés as it shall deem necessary for the

nécessaires pour l'administration conduct of the affairs of the

de la Fondation .

Foundation .

Article 7.

Article 7.

Reports.

Les rapports sur l'activité de la Reports as directed by the Sec-

Fondation prescrits par le Secré- retary of State of the United States taire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'A- of America shall be made annually

mérique seront adressés chaque on the activities of the Foundation

année au Secrétaire d'Etat des to the Secretary of State of the

Etats-Unis d'Amérique et aux United States of America and the

Gouvernements belge et luxem- Governments of Belgium and Lux-

bourgeois.

embourg .

Article 8.

Article 8.

Principal office, etc.

Le bureau principal de la Fonda- The principal office of the Foun-

tion sera établi a Bruxelles, mais dation shall be in Brussels , but

les réunions du Conseil et de ses meetings of the Board and any of

Commissions pourront avoir lieu its committees may be held in such

en d'autres villes que désignera le other places as the Board may Conseil, et l'activité de l'un ou de from time to time determine, and

l'autre agent ou employé de la the activities of any of the Foun-

Fondation pourra , avec le con- dation's officers or staff may be

sentement du Conseil, être exercée carried on at such places as may

en n'importe quelle localité.

be approved by the Board.

Executive Officer.

Article 9 .

Article 9.

Le Conseil pourra nommer un The Board may appoint an agent d'exécution et fixer ses Execative Officer and determine appointements et la durée de son his salary and term of service, mandat, sous réserve , toutefois, provided however, that in the que si le Conseil se trouve dans event it is found to be impracl'impossibilité de désigner un titu- ticable for the Board to secure an laire ayant l'agrément du Prési- appointee acceptable to the Chairdent, le Gouvernement des Etats- man, the Governement of the Unis d'Amérique pourra nommer United States of America may un agent d'exécution et des ad- provide an Executive Officer and joints en nombre nécessaire pour such assistants as may be deemed

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION - OCT. 8, 1948 3459

assurer la bonne exécution du necessary to ensure the effective

programme. L'agent d'exécution operation of the program. The sera responsable de la direction et Executive Officer shall be re-

de la surveillance des programmes sponsible for the direction and et activités du Conseil conformé- supervision of the Board's pro-

ment aux résolutions et directives grams and activities in accordance du Conseil. En cas d'absence ou de with the Board's resolutions and

maladie de l'agent d'exécution , le directives . In his absence or dis-

Conseil peut désigner un rempla- ability, the Board may appoint

çant pour telle durée qui sera substitute for such time as it

estimée nécessaire ou désirable .

deems necessary or desirable .

Article 10.

Article 10.

Review of Board deLe Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats- The décisions of the Board in cisions.

Unis d'Amérique peut, à son gré, all matters may, in the discretion

procéder à l'examen des décisions of the Secretary of State of the

du Conseil en toutes matières .

United States of America, be

subject to his review.

Article 11.

Article 11 .

Le Gouvernement belge mettra The Government of Belgium

à la disposition de la Trésorerie des shall deposit with the Treasury of Etats-Unis, sur demande du Gou- the United States, upon demand vernement des Etats-Unis, des of the United States Government, montants en monnaie belge n'excé- amounts of Belgium currency not dant pas l'équivalent de 150.000 to exceed the equivalent of $ 150.dollars (monnaie des Etats-Unis) , 000 (United States Currency ) dur-

pour chaque année civile, et jus- ing any calendar year, and in the

qu'à concurrence d'un montant aggregate totalling the equivalent

équivalent à 3.000.000 de dollars of $3.000.000 (United States cur-

(monnaie des Etats-Unis) .

rency) .

Le cours du change entre la The rate of exchange between

monnaie belge et celle des Etats- currency of the Government of

Unis à appliquer pour la détermi- Belgium and United States curnaison du montant à deposer en rency to be used in determining

monnaie belge aux époques fixées , the amount of currency of the sera établi conformément au para- Government of Belgium to be de-

graphe 2A (3 ) du of Understanding.

Mémorandum posited from time to time hereunder, shall be determined in accordance with paragraph 2A (3) of the Memorandum of Under-

standing. Le Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats- The Secretary of State of the

Unis mettra à la disposition de la United States of America will Fondations les montants en mon- make available for expenditure by naie belge qui seront requis par la the Foundation currency of the Fondation pour couvrir ses dé- Government of Belgium in such penses, mais, en aucun cas, ces amounts as may be required by the montants ne pourront excéder les Foundation but in no event in limites budgétaires établies con- excess of the budgetary limitation

Deposits. Post, p. 3985.

3460 Ante, p. 3456.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

formément à l'article 3 du présent established pursuant to Article 3

accord.

of the present agreement.

Article 12.

Article 12.

"Secretary of State of the United States of America."

Le terme "Secrétaire d'Etat des Wherever, in the present agreeEtats-Unis d'Amérique" , où qu'il ment, the term "Secretary of State apparaisse dans le présent accord, of the United States of America"

signifie le Secrétaire d'Etat des is used , it shall be understood to Etats des Etats-Unis d'Amérique mean the Secretary of State of the ou tout fonctionnaire ou agent du United States of America or any Gouvernement des Etats-Unis officer or employee of the Govern-

d'Amérique désigné par lui pour ment of the United States of

agir en son nom.

America designated by him to act in his behalf.

Article 13.

Article 18.

Amendment of agreement.

Le présent accord pourra être The present agreement may be amendé par l'échange de notes amended by the exchange of dipdiplomatiques entre les Gouverne- lomatic notes between the Govments des Etats-Unis, de la Bel- ernments of the United States of

gique et du Luxembourg.

America, Belgium, and Luxembourg.

Article 14.

Article 14.

Entry into force.

Le présent accord entrera en The present agreement shall

vigueur à la date de sa signature. come into force upon the date of

signature. En foi de quoi , les soussignés, In witness whereof the under-

dûment autorisés par leurs Gou- signed , being duly authorized

vernements respectifs ont signé le thereto by their respective Gov-

présent accord .

ernments, have signed the present

agreement .

Fait à Bruxelles, en langues Done at Brussels , in the Eng-

anglaise et française, ce 8 octobre lish and French languages this

1948 .

8th day of October , 1948.

POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE :

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:

ALAN G. KIRK.

POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT BELGE :

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF BELGIUM :

CAM. HUYSMANS .

POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT LUXEMBOURGEOIS :

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF LUXEMBOURG :

J. KREMER.

62 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES-PATENTS- Feb. 12, 1948 Aug. 4, 23, 1948

3461

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of
the Philippines respecting certain rights of priority in filing applications for patents . Effected by exchange of notes dated at Washington February 12, August 4 and 23, 1948; entered into force August 23, 1948.

February 12, and August 4, 23, 1948
(T. L. A. S. 1861]

The Secretary of State to the Philippine Ambassador

The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency

the Ambassador of the Philippines and has the honor to refer to the

problem of the application to United States citizens of certain rights

of priority in the filing of patent applications under the Philippine Patent Law.

The United States Patent Law, R.S. 4887 (title 15 , [ '] USC Sec . 32) , contains a clause similar to one found in Section 15 of the Philippine

Patent Law, Republic Act 165. In both cases the law provides that

the right of priority is accorded to "..

a foreign country which,

by treaty, convention, or law, affords similar privileges

." It

is felt that the presence of similar provisions in the patent laws of the

United States and the Philippines satisfies the requirement of reci-

procity. A statement by the appropriate Philippine officials to the

effect that Section 15 of the Philippine Patent Law applies to United States citizens will be considered sufficient for the United States to

recognize that Section 32 of the United States Patent Law is applicable to citizens of the Philippines .

Assuming that the procedure outlined above is satisfactory, the

question of the war-caused delay in the use of the right of priority

arises . Section 76 of the Philippine Patent Law extends the right of

priority for the filing of patents which accrued during the war period

on a reciprocal basis with countries according substantially the same

privileges to citizens of the Philippines. The Boykin Act (United States Public Law 690, 79th Congress) contains substantially the same provisions and, upon a statement by the appropriate Philippine

60 Stat. 940.
35 U. S. C. §§ 101114; Supp. I, §§ 101. 103; 113 tes

officials indicating that Section 76 of the Philippine Patent Law is

applicable to citizens of the United States, the United States Patent

Office could apply Section 1 of the Boykin Act to citizens of the

Philippines. It should be noted, however, that the present expira-

tion date of the extension of the right of priority under the Boykin

Act is February 29, 1948. Unless a further extension of time is

provided for by Congressional action, benefits of the Act will apply only to cases filed before February 29 , 1948 . DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, February 12 1948

RV

1 The reference should be to "title 35".

3462

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

35 U.S. O. §32.

The Secretary of State to the Philippine Ambassador

The Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency the Ambassador of the Philippines and has the honor to refer to the Department's note of February 12 , 1948 concerning the application to United States citizens of certain rights of priority in the filing of patent applications under the Philippine Patent Law.
This problem has again been brought to the attention of the Department of State by nationals of the United States seeking to obtain patents in the Philippines based upon original filings in the United States. In attempting to secure a filing date for the Philippine application equivalent to the United States filing date, these United States nationals have been informed that the right of priority in filing patent

applications can be extended to them only when proof of reciprocity in the United States for Philippine nationals has been communicated to the Philippine Government.
As stated in the Department's note of February 12 , the United States Patent Law, R. S. 4887 (title 15 , USC Sec. 32) , contains a

clause similar to one embodied in Section 15 of the Philippine Patent

Law, Republic Act 165. In each instance the respective laws provide

66

that the right of priority is accorded to

.. a foreign country

""

which, by treaty, convention , or law, affords similar privileges .

It is the view of this Government that the presence of similar provisions

in the patent laws of the United States and the Philippines satisfies the requirement of reciprocity. A statement by the appropriate officer of the Philippines to the effect that Section 15 of the Philippine Patent Law applies to United States citizens will be considered

sufficient to enable the United States to recognize that Section 32 of the United States Patent Law is applicable to citizens of the Philippines.

This Government is of the further view that the course of action

suggested above will work to the mutual advantage of both nations by eliminating the burdensome requirement of proof of reciprocity in the case of each individual patent application. Accordingly, this Government trusts that the course of action suggested will meet with the approval of the Government of the Philippines.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington , August 4 , 1948.

RP T

The Philippine Ambassador to the Secretary of State

EMBASSY OF THE PHILIPPINES

WASHINGTON

EXCELLENCY :

August 23, 1948

I have the honor to refer to the notes of the Department of State dated February 12 and August 4, 1948 concerning the application to United States citizens of certain rights of priority in the filing of patent applications under the Philippine Patent Law.

62 STAT. ]

PHILIPPINES-PATENTS- Feb. 12, 1948 Aug. 4, 23, 1948

3463

It is stated in the Department's note of February 12 , 1948 and reiterated in its note of August 4, 1948 , that the United States Patent Law, R.S. 4887 (title 15 , USC Sec. 32) contains a clause similar to one found in Section 15 of the Philippine Patent Law, Republic Act 165 , that in both cases the law provides that the right of priority is accorded to "xxx a foreign country which, by treaty, convention, or law affords similar privileges x x x," and that it is felt that the presence of similar provisions in the patent laws of the United States and the Philippines satisfies the requirement of reciprocity.
It is further stated in the notes under reference that it is the view of the United States Government that a statement by the appropriate Philippine officials to the effect that Section 15 of the Philippine Patent Law applies to United States citizens would be considered sufficient for the United States to recognize that Section 32 of the United States Patent Law is applicable to the citizens of the Philippines .
I am pleased to inform Your Excellency that my Government has instructed me to convey to your Government that the following text of the 3rd indorsement of the Director of the Philippines Patent Office, dated May 26 , 1948 and concurred in by the Department of Commerce and Industry of my Government, represents the official position of the Philippine Government on the matter :

35 U. S. C. 32.

Respectfully returned , thru the Honorable, the Secretary of Commerce and Industry, to the Honorable , the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Manila.
In view of the statement of the Honorable, the Secretary of State of the United States that, under the U. S. Patent Law, R. S. 4887 (Title 15, USC Sec. 32) , the Government of the United States

35 U. S. C. § 32.

accords to citizens of the Philippines the same privileges as those which Section 15 of the Philippine Patent Law (Rep . Act No. 165 , approved June 20 , 1947) accords to foreigners, the Philippines Patent Office will consider the said Section 15 of the Philippine Patent Law applicable to citizens of the United States effective as of June 20, 1947 .

In view of the statement of the Honorable, the Secretary of State

of the United States that the U. S. Patent Office could consider the

United States Boykin Act (which grants to foreigners substantially

60 Stat. 940. 35 U. S. C. §§ 101-

the same patent prior rights as those which Section 76 of the Philip- 111034;, 1S1u3ppno. tIe,s. 101, pine Patent Law accords to foreigners) applicable to citizens of

the Philippines up to February 29 , 1948, the Philippines Patent

Office will likewise regard Section 76 of the Philippine Patent Law

(Rep. Act No. 165) applicable to citizens of the United States

whose patent applications were received at the Philippines Patent Office between June 20 , 1947 and February 29 , 1948 , both dates inclusive .

It is the understanding of my Government that the aforesaid note of February 12 , 1948 of the Department of State, as reiterated by its note of August 4, 1948 , and this note signifying my Government's assent thereto shall constitute an agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and the United States on patents .

Ante, p. 3461. Ante, p. 3462.

3464

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Accept , Excellency, the tinguished consideration .

renewed

assurances

of my most disJ M ELIZALDE

His Excellency GEORGE C. MARSHALL Secretary of State

62 STAT. ] ITALY-CULTURAL EXCHANGE- DEC. 18, 1948

3465

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting C an American Commission for Cultural Exchange with Italy. Signed
at Rome December 18, 1948 ; entered into force December 18, 1948.

December 18, 1948 (T. I. A. S. 1864]

AGREEMENT between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Italian Republic for financing
certain educational exchange programs

ACCORDO fra il Governo della Repubblica Italiana ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America per finanziare alcuni programmi di
scambi culturali

3466

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

AGREEMENT between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Italian Republic for financing certain educational exchange programs.

Deposits.

The GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA and the GOVERNMENT OF THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC
Desiring to promote further mutual understanding between the peoples of the United States of America and of Italy by a wider exchange of knowledge and professional talents ;
Considering that the Secretary of State of the United States of America may enter into an agreement for financing certain educational exchange programs from currencies or credits for currencies acquired pursuant to the Memorandum of Agreement dated September 9, 1946, ['] or any supplement or modification thereof (hereinafter collectively referred to as the Memorandum) .
Have agreed as follows :
Article 1
The Government of the Italian Republic shall deposit , subsequent to 30 days from December 18th 1948 , with the Treasurer of the United States of America on such dates as the Government of the United States of America shall specify, amounts of Italian currency until an aggregate amount of Italian currency equivalent to $ 5.000.000 (United States currency) shall have been so deposited , provided, however, that in no event shall a total amount of Italian currency in excess of the equivalent of $ 1.000.000 (United States currency) be deposited during any single calendar year. The amount of currency so deposited shall reduce the amount that would otherwise be payable in dollars by the Government of the Italian Republic to the Government of the United States of America in accordance with the Memorandum.
The rate of exchange between Italian currency and United States currency to be used in determining the amount of Italian currency to be deposited from time to time pursuant to this agreement shall be determined in accordance with the Memorandum, or ay supplement or modification thereof.
¹Not printed.

62 STAT. ] ITALY-CULTURAL EXCHANGE- DEC. 18, 1948

3467

ACCORDO
fra il Governo della Repubblica Italiana ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America per finanziare alcuni programmi di scambi culturali.
II GOVERNO DELLA REPUBBLICA ITALIANA ed il GOVERNO DEGLI STATI UNITI D'AMERICA,
Desiderosi di promuovere un più largo sviluppo dello spirito di comprensione reciproca fra i popoli dell'Italia e degli Stati Uniti d'America mediante l'incremento degli scambi di conoscenze scientifiche, tecniche e professionali ;
Considerando che il Segretario di Stato degli Stati Uniti d'America ha facoltà di stipulare un accordo per finanziare alcuni programmi di scambi culturali mediante fondi o crediti derivanti dalle disposizioni del Memorandum of Agreement del 9 settembre 1946 e successive modificazioni ( d'ora innanzi citati complessivamente come Memorandum).
Hanno convenuto quanto segue :
Art. 1
Il Governo della Repubblica Italiana depositerà, successivamente al decorso di 30 giorni dal 18 dicembre 1948 presso il Tesoriere degli Stati Uniti d'America, alle date indicate dal Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, somme in valuta italiana fino a che sia stato in tal modo depositato un ammontare complessivo di valuta italiana equivalente a $ 5.000.000 (valuta statunitense) . Tuttavia l'ammontare complessivo di valuta italiana da depositarsi entro un singolo anno solare non sarà in alcun caso superiore all'equivalente di $ 1.000.000. Le somme in valuta così depositate ridurranno l'ammontare complessivo che sarebbe altrimenti pagabile in dollari dal Governo della Repubblica Italiana al Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America, in conformità con il Memorandum.
Il tasso di cambio tra la valuta italiana e quella statunitense, che dovrà essere adottato nel fissare la quantità di valuta italiana da depositarsi di volta in volta a norma del presente accordo , sarà stabilito secondo le disposizioni del Memorandum, integrazioni o modificazioni del medesimo.

3468

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 2

Use offunds.

The amounts thus made available to the Treasurer of the United States of America shall not be subject to the domestic and local laws of the United States of America as they relate to the use and expenditure of currencies and credits for currencies for the purposes set forth in the present agreement, and shall be considered as property constituted pursuant to a transaction entered into in accordance with the Memorandum and are therefore not subject in the Italian Republic to any tax, duty, or other assessment under paragraph 8 of the Memorandum. Such amounts shall be used for the purposes of :
1. Financing studies , research, instruction and other educational activities of or for citizens of the United States of America in schools and institu tions of higher learning located in the Italian Republic or of citizens of the Italian Republic in United States schools and institutions of higher learning located outside the continental United States, Hawaii, Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands ) , Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, including payment for transportation, maintenance, tuition and other expenses , incident to scholastic activities ; or
2. Furnishing transportation for citizens of the Italian Republic who desire to attend United States schools and institutions of higher learning in the continental United States, Hawaii, Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands), Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and whose attendance will not deprive citizens of the United States of America of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions .
Article 3

American Commission for Cultural Exchange with Italy.

In order to promote the integrated development of the educational program, there shall be established a joint Commission, to be known as the American Commission for Cultural Exchange with Italy (hereinafter designated « the Commission »>) which will receive funds made available to the Government of the United States of America under the Memorandum . The funds so made available shall be placed at the disposal of the Commission by deposit in the Italian Republic in the name of the Treasurer of the Commission .

Article 4

Powers of the Commission.
60 Stat. 754. 50 U. 8. C. app. $ 1641 (b).

The Commission shall exercise all powers necessary for carrying out the educational program, including the following :
(a) authorize the disbursement of the funds and the making of grants and advances therefrom ;
(b) plan, adopt and carry out programs which, in the territory of the Italian Republic, shall be executed in collaboration with the Government of the Italian Republic ;
(c) recommend to the Board of Foreign Scholarships , provided for in the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended, students, teachers professors, research scholars , resident in the Italian Republic, and institutions situated in the Italian Republic, qualified in the opinion of the Commission to participate in the programs in accordance with the aforesaid Act ;

62 STAT. ] ITALY- CULTURAL EXCHANGE- DEC. 18, 1948
Art. 2
Le somme messe in tal modo a disposizione del Tesoriere degli Stati Uniti d'America non saranno soggette alle leggi nazionali e locali degli Stati Uniti d'America in quanto queste si riferiscono all'impiego di somme e crediti per i fini stabiliti nel presente accordo ; esse saranno considerate come beni costituiti in conseguenza di un accordo stipulato in relazione al Memorandum, e non saranno perciò assoggettate nella Repubblica Italiana ad alcuna imposta, tassa o ad alcun altro contributo, a norma del paragrafo 8 dello stesso Memorandum. Tali somme saranno impiegate per gli scopi qui appresso indicati :
1º finanziare studi e ricerche nonchè l'istruzione ed altre attività di carattere culturale a favore di cittadini statunitensi presso scuole ed istituti di istruzione superiore situati nella Repubblica Italiana, oppure a favore di cittadini italiani in scuole ed istituti di istruzione superiore statunitensi situati fuori degli Stati Uniti continentali, Hawai, Alaska (comprese le Isole Aleutine), Porto Rico ed Isole Vergini, ivi incluso il pagamento del trasporto, del mantenimento, dell'insegnamento e delle altre spese inerenti all'attività scolastica ; oppure
2º provvedere al trasporto di cittadini italiani i quali desiderino frequentare o visitare scuole ed istituti di istruzione superiore statunitensi negli Stati Uniti continentali, Hawai, Alaska (comprese le isole Alcutine), Porto Rico ed Isole Vergini, purchè la frequenza da parte dei cittadini suddetti non pregiudichi ai cittadini statunitensi la possibilità di frequentare tali scuole ed istituti.
Art. 3
Allo scopo di promuovere un completo sviluppo del programma culturale sarà crcata una Commissione mista che prenderà il nome di Commissione Americana per gli Scambi Culturali con l'Italia (d'ora innanzi indicata come « la Commissione »), la quale riceverà i fondi posti a disposizione del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America secondo il Memorandum. I fondi stanziati saranno messi a disposizione della Commissione mediante un deposito costituito nella Repubblica Italiana a nome del Tesoriere della Commissione.
Art. 4
La Commissione eserciterà tutti i poteri necessari per l'attuazione del programma culturale, ivi compresi i seguenti :
a) autorizzare il pagamento dei fondi , l'assegnazione di sovvenzioni e dei relativi anticipi ;
b ) progettare, adottare e attuare programmi, i quali, nel territorio della Repubblica Italiana, saranno attuati in collaborazione col Governo Italiano ;
c) proporre al Consiglio delle Borse di Studio all'estero (previsto nell'United States Surplus Property Act del 1944 e successive modificazioni) studenti, insegnanti, professori, esperti in ricerche residenti nella Repubblica Italiana ed istituti situati nella Repubblica Italiana, che siano in possesso dei requisiti richiesti a giudizio della Commissione per partecipare ai programmi a norma della legge su citata ;

3469

3470 Expenditures.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(d) recommend to the aforesaid Board of Foreign Scholarships such qualifications for the selection of participants in the programs as it may deen necessary ;
(e) provide for periodic audits of the accounts of the Commission as directed by auditors selected by the Secretary of State of the United States of America ;
(f) engage an executive officer, administrative and clerical staff and fix and authorize the payment of salaries and wages thereof out of the funds made available.
Article 5
All expenditures authorized by the Commission shall be made in accordance with budgets to be approved by the Sccretary of State of the United States of America pursuant to such regulations he may prescribe, and the Commission shall not authorize any commitments or create any obligation in excess of the part of the funds actually placed at its disposal at the time of the authorization.

Article 6

Membership.

The Commission shall consist of twelve members, six of whom shall be

citizens of the United States of America, six of whom shall be citizens of the Italian Republic.

Of the citizens of the United States of America , a minimum of three shall

be officers of the United States Foreign Service Establishments in the Italian

Republic ; one of them shall serve as Treasurer. The principal officer in charge

of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States of America in the Italian Republic

shall be Honorary Chairman of the Commission. He shall have the power of

appointment and removal of the United States citizens on the Commission, and deciding vote in case of tie. The citizens of the Italian Republic on the Com-

mission shall be appointed and may be removed by the Government of the

Italian Republic. A Chairman with voting power shall be elected by the Com-

mission from among its members.

The members shall serve from the time of their appointment until one year

from the following December 31st, and shall be eligible for reappointment.

Vacancies by reason of resignation, transfer of residence outside the territory of

the Italian Republic, expiration of term of service or otherwise, shall be filled in accordance with the above procedure. The members shall serve without

compensation, but the Commission may authorize the payment of the necessary

Rules and committees.

expenses of the members in attending the meetings of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt such rules and appoint such committees as it
deems necessary for the conduct of its affairs.

Reports.

Article 7
Reports shall be made annually on the activities of the Commission to the Secretary of State of the United States of America and the Government of the Italian Republic. Such reports shall be submitted in such form and detail as may be required by the Secretary of State.

62 STAT. ] ITALY-CULTURAL EXCHANGE-DEC. 18, 1948
d) proporre al suddetto Consiglio delle Borse di Studio all'estero i requisiti necessari per la scelta dei partecipanti ai programmi stabiliti ;
e) provvedere a controlli periodici dei conti della Commissione nel modo disposto da agenti di controllo designati dal Segretario di Stato degli Stati Uniti d'America ;
f) assumere un funzionario con funzioni direttive e personale con funzioni amministrative e d'ordine ; fissare l'ammontare ed autorizzare il pagamento dei relativi stipendi e paghe da prelevarsi dai fondi messi a disposizione.
Art. 5
Tutte le spese autorizzate dalla Commissione dovranno essere fatte in conformità di bilanci da sottoporre all'approvazione del Segretario di Stato degli Stati Uniti d'America in ottemperanza a quelle disposizioni che egli potrà emanare ; la Commissione non autorizzerà qualsiasi impegno e non assumerà qualsiasi obbligazione che possa eccedere la parte dei fondi effettivamente posti a sua disposizione al momento dell'autorizzazione.
Art. 6
La Commissione sarà composta di dodici membri, sei dei quali cittadini degli Stati Uniti d'America e sei cittadini della Repubblica Italiana.
Tra i membri cittadini statunitensi almeno tre dovranno essere funzionari appartenenti alla Rappresentanza Diplomatica od ai Consolati degli Stati Uniti nella Repubblica Italiana . Uno di essi sarà il Tesoriere della Commissione. Il funzionario più elevato in grado della Missione Diplomatica degli Stati Uniti in Italia sarà il Presidente onorario della Commissione. Egli avrà il potere di nominare e revocare i membri della Commissione che siano cittadini statunitensi ed avrà voto prevalente in caso di parità di voti. I membri della Commissione cittadini italiani saranno nominati e revocati dal Governo della Repubblica Italiana. La Commissione eleggerà un presidente scelto tra i propri membri, il quale avrà voto alla pari degli altri membri.
I membri rimarranno in carica per la durata di un anno a partire dal 31 dicembre successivo alla loro nomina e potranno essere confermati. I posti che si rendessero vacanti a causa di dimissioni, trasferimenti di residenza fuori del territorio della Repubblica Italiana, scadenza del periodo di carica od altra causa, saranno ricoperti adottando la procedura sopra indicata. I membri presteranno servizio senza emolumenti ; la Commissione potrà tuttavia autorizzare il pagamento delle spese incontrate dai membri per partecipare alle sedute della Commissione.
La Commissione adotterà quei regolamenti e designerà quei comitati che riterrà necessari per l'espletamento della sua attività .
Art. 7
Ogni anno saranno presentati al Segretario di Stato degli Stati Uniti d'America ed al Governo della Repubblica Italiana dei rapporti sulle attività della Commissione. Detti rapporti saranno redatti nella forma e con le modalità che potranno essere disposte dal Segretario di Stato.

3471

3472

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Principal office , etc.

Article 8
The principal office of the Commission shall be in Rome, but meetings of the Commission and any of its committees may be held in such other places as the Commission may from time to time determine, and the activities of any of the Commission officers or staff may be carried on at such places as may be approved by the Commission, within the limit of any rules, regulations and restrictions in force in territories under the authority of the Italian Republic.

Article 9

"Secretary of State ofthe United States of America."

Wherever in the present agreement, the term « Secretary of State of the United States of America » is used , it shall be understood to mean the Secretary of State of the United States of America or any officer or employee of the Government of the United States of America designated by him to act on his behalf.

Article 10

Exchange of persons programs.

The Government of the United States of America and the Government ofthe Italian Republic shall make every effort to facilitate the exchange of persons programs authorized in this agreement and to resolve problems which may arise in the operation thereof.
Article 11

Entry into force.

The present agreement shall enter into force on the date of its signature. It shall be reviewed at the expiration of a period of three years. It may also be reviewed at any prior time at the instance of one or the other Government.

Authentic texts.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned , being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present agreement.
DONE in Rome, this 18th day of December 1948 in duplicate in the English and Italian languages both equally authentic.

For the Government of the United States
of America

For the Italian Government

James ChmanDam



62 STAT. ] ITALY-CULTURAL EXCHANGE- DEC. 18, 1948
Art. 8
La sede principale della Commissione sarà stabilità in Roma, tuttavia potranno tenersi riunioni della Commissione e di qualsiasi sotto-commissione in qualunque altro luogo fissato dalla Commissione. L'attività di qualsiasi funzionario o dipendente della Commissione potrà svolgersi in ogni luogo designato da qnesta nei limiti previsti dalle leggi e dai regolamenti vigenti nei territori sotto l'autorità della Repubblica Italiana.
Art. 9
Ogni volta che nella presente Convenzione è usata l'espressione <« Segretario di Stato degli Stati Uniti d'America » si intenderà che essa indica il Segretario di Stato degli Stati Uniti o qualsiasi funzionario o impiegato del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America da lui designato per agire in suo nome.
Art. 10
Il Governo della Repubblica Italiana ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America faciliteranno in ogni modo l'attuazione dei programmi di scambio di persone autorizzati dalla presente Convenzione nonchè la risoluzione di qualsiasi problema relativo a detti programmi.
Art. 11
Il presente Accordo entrerà in vigore alla data della sua firma e sarà riveduto alla scadenza di un periodo di tre anni. Esso potrà anche essere riveduto in qualsiasi momento prima di detta data su richiesta dell'uno o dell'altro Governo.
IN FEDE DI CHE i sottoscritti, debitamente autorizzati dai rispettivi Governi, hanno firmato il presente Accordo.
FATTO a Roma il 18 dicembre 1948, in duplice originale, in lingua italiana ed inglese, facenti entrambe ugualmente fede.

Per il Governo Italiano

Per il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America



3473

3474

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ApMrairlc2h1 ,1179,4J2u,naen1d, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1866]

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting an agricultural experiment station at Tingo Maria. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima March 17 and June 1 , 1948; entered into force June 1 , 1948. And memorandum of agreement between the United States Department of Agriculture and Peru, signed at Washington April 21 , 1942 ; entered into force April 21 , 1942.

Post, p. 3477. Post, p. 3478.

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 912

LIMA, March 17, 1948.

EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to refer to the Memorandum of Agreement for
cooperation between my Government and the Government of the Republic of Perú in the establishment and operation of an agricultural experiment station at Tingo María. The Agreement was drafted in the English language and signed on April 21 , 1942 at Washington, D. C., by Claude R. Wickard , Secretary of Agriculture, on behalf of my Government, and by David Dasso, Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Perú.
I am informed that upon the request of the Ministry of Agriculture, the appropriate Ministries of Your Excellency's Government have agreed to grant free entry into Perú for the property of personnel of the United States Department of Agriculture assigned to the station at Tingo María, and that it is desirable accordingly to amend the Agreement by inserting an additional paragraph after the final sentence in Section 4, to contain the following language :

Section 4 · ·

"The United States personnel assigned to the Station will not be obligated to pay to Perú any direct tax or contribution for purposes of social security or retirement on salaries or income when they are subject to such taxes or contributions in the United States of America. The Government of Perú shall extend free entry or shall pay the corresponding charges for material and equipment necessary for the professional use of United States personnel assigned to this Station. In like manner the Government of Perú shall either grant free entry or pay corresponding duties on personal effects of the United States
personnel assigned to this Station, according to the limitations covering members of the Diplomatic Corps accredited to the Government of Perú ; for the purposes of this agreement the United States personnel assigned to the Agricultural Experiment Station at Tingo María shall be considered as having the same free entry privileges as

Apr. 21, 1942 62 STAT. ] PERU- AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION- Mar. 17, June 1, 1948

3475

First Secretaries in the Diplomatic Service. Duties exceeding these limits shall be paid by the personnel concerned ."
If the text of the amendment set forth above is acceptable to the Government of Perú , I should appreciate being informed by Your Excellency that it may be considered an integral part of the Memorandum of Agreement of April 21, 1942.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
PRENTICE COOPER His Excellency
General ARMANDO REVOREDO IGLESIAS, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

Post, p. 3477.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

N°: (D) -6-3/28 SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

LIMA, 1° de junio de 1948.

Tengo el honor de informar a Vuestra Excelencia, en respuesta a su

atenta nota Nº 912, de 17 de marzo último, que el Gobierno del Perú no tiene inconveniente en aceptar el texto del artículo que se propone,

para ser incorporado al Convenio de 21 de abril de 1942, relativo al

establecimiento y administración de la Estación Agrícola Experi-

mental de Tingo María, que a la letra dice :

"Sección 4

El personal de los Estados Unidos asignado a la Estación no estará obligado a pagar en el Perú ningún impuesto directo o contribución por concepto de seguro social o sobre jubilaciones o renta, por cuanto, ellos están sujetos a tales impuestos o contribuciones en los Estados Unidos de América. El Gobierno del Perú concederá libre ingreso o pagará los derechos correspondientes por el material y equipo necesario para el uso profesional del personal de los Estados Unidos asignado a esa Estación. Asimismo , el Gobierno del Perú concederá libre ingreso o pagará los derechos correspondientes por los efectos personales del personal de los Estados Unidos asignado a esa Estación, de conformidad a las limitaciones que comprenden a los miembros del Cuerpo Diplomático acreditado ante el Gobierno del Perú ; para los efectos de este Convenio el personal de los Estados Unidos destinado a la Estación Experimental Agrícola de Tingo María será considerado como que goza de iguales privilegios de libre ingreso que los Primeros Secretarios en el Servicio Diplomático. Los derechos que excedan de estos límites serán pagados por el personal interesado."
68706-52- PT. III- -55

3476

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterarle, Señor Embajador, las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
A REVOREDO I Al Excelentísimo Señor PRENTICE COOPER,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad.-

Ante, p. 3474. Post, p. 3477.

Translation

MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No: (D) -6-3/28

LIMA, June 1, 1948.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency, in reply to your

courteous note No. 912, of March 17 last, that the Government of

Peru does not find any objection to accepting the text of the proposed article, to be incorporated in the Agreement of April 21, 1942, relative to the establishment and administration of the Agricultural Experiment Station at Tingo María , which is couched in the following terms :

"Section 4

The United States personnel assigned to the Station will not be obliged to pay to Peru any direct tax or contribution for purposes of social security or retirement on salaries or income when they are subject to such taxes or contributions in the United States of America. The Government of Peru shall extend free entry or shall pay the corresponding charges for material and equipment necessary for the professional use of the United States personnel assigned to this Station. In like manner, the Government of Peru shall either grant free entry or pay corresponding duties on the per-
sonal effects of the United States personnel assigned to this Station, according to the limitations covering members of the Diplomatic Corps accredited to the Government of Peru ; for the purposes of this Agreement the United States personnel assigned to the Agricultural Experiment Station at Tingo María shall be considered as having the same free entry privileges as First Secretaries in the Diplomatic Service. Duties exceeding these limits shall be paid by the personnel concerned."

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my highest consideration.
A REVOREDO I
His Excellency Mr. PRENTICE COOPER, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. Lima. -

Apr. 21 , 1942 62 STAT. ] PERU- AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION- Mar. 17, June 1 , 1948

3477

Memorandum of Agreement between the United States Secretary of Agriculture and the Peruvian Minister of Finance

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

Purpose of agreeThe Government of the United States of America, through the ment. United States Department of Agriculture, and the Government of Peru desiring to cooperate in the establishment and operation of an
agricultural experiment station at Tingo Maria, Peru , for the purpose
of promoting the production of basic and strategic tropical products have reached the following agreement :

Functions ofstation. 1. The general functions of the station shall include : ( a ) agronomic

production investigations necessary to permanent agriculture in the

Tingo Maria region and in general over the whole of the Peruvian

Amazon basin with complementary products, particularly rubber, as

the cash crops ; ( b) extension of approved agricultural practices by

the operation of demonstration farms, and by agricultural extension

work as liaison between the station and the private farms ; ( c) the

propagation and distribution of planting material to farmers ; and

(d) cooperation with other agricultural institutions of the Western

Hemisphere in the promotion of tropical agriculture through consulta-

tion and the exchange of scientific information and personnel. 2. The Government of Peru will make available all land necessary
to conduct investigations and demonstration work designed to promote the profitable production of export crops, such as rubber, fibers, insecticides, medicinals, et cetera, and increase the income and foreign trade of the people of Peru . Such land shall be selected by the director of the station in cooperation with the appropriate governmental agency of Peru, and the Government of Peru shall permit the continued use of the land by the experiment station free of charge. The land shall include a minimum of 500 hectares in the vicinity of the

Availability of Peruvian land, etc.

central station at Tingo Maria, and at least three other parcels with a minimum of 50 hectares each which shall be representative of various natural land divisions of the Amazonas.
3. The Government of Peru also agrees to construct : (a) residences, Construction of buildings, etc.
complete with furnishings, for the North American and Peruvian members of the staff, except stoves and refrigerators not manufac-

tured in Peru ; (b) a laboratory, office and library building for technical work ; and (c) service buildings, including repair shops, one or

more buildings for the preparation and propagation of plant material, a building for the storage of equipment and plant material, and such buildings as may be needed for studies in livestock production and the

housing of pilot plants for processing agricultural production for shipment.
4. The Peruvian Government shall provide : (a) complete furnishings, services, and equipment, except scientific equipment and apparatus not produced or manufactured in Peru, for the laboratory, office, and library building ; (b) an adequate and pure water supply ; (c) recreational facilities such as tennis courts, swimming pool, et

Furnishings, serv ices, etc.

3478

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

cetera ; (d) a graduate medical doctor and surgeon at the existing hospital at Tingo Maria ; ( e) agricultural publications, necessary to the proper functioning of the station, including reference books, noncurrent journals, and all journals and bulletins published outside of the United States, as well as the binding of journals ; and (f) the funds necessary for the preparation, printing and distribution of four types of publications to be issued by the station, as follows :

(1) A popular Spanish periodical written for the farm family and containing articles by the staff and other qualified persons on such subjects as health, hygiene, community organization , information on the Amazonas region, aims of the experiment station, treatment of agricultural practices and methodology,

(2) farm circulars written in Spanish and issued as required, dealing with specific farm practices or products,

(3) technical bulletins in English or Spanish dealing with the results of specific scientific investigation at the station, and

(4) an annual report in Spanish, covering the work of the station performed during the year, and the status of agriculture in the region ;

(g) the services of at least one Peruvian scientist to cooperate with the scientists detailed to Peru by the United States Department of Agriculture, and the services of technologists qualified in the fields of land-surveying, topography, drainage, drafting, minor construction, botany, entomology, chemical analysis, and library management ; (h) stenographers, clerks, mechanics, machinists, field plot and lab-

oratory assistants, and such unskilled labor as may be necessary to conduct the work of the experiment station ; and (i) the transportation expenses incurred by Peruvian and United States members of the station staff for travel on station business within Peru. The

Peruvian Government also undertakes, when possible, to maintain

Ante, p. 34741
Services, etc., provided by U. S.

Peruvian students in graduate study in each of the fields of agriculture in colleges or universities in the United States.
5. The Government of the United States of America, through the United States Department of Agriculture, and subject to the avail-

ability of funds for the purpose, agrees to provide ; ( a ) the services of scientists to perform the functions of director of the station, agron-

omist, plant geneticist and breeder, pedologist, animal husbandman,

rubber specialist, and agricultural extension specialist ; (b) cur-

rent scientific journals on plant and animal science published in the United States ; (c) scientific equipment and apparatus not produced

or manufactured in Peru ; (d) stoves and refrigerators not manufac-

tured in Peru, for the residences of the staff ; ( e) hand and mechanical

tools for the station shops ; ( f) hospital equipment for the treatment of emergency cases ; and (g ) for the designing of all buildings, in-

Governing commis sion, etc.

including residences for the Peruvian and North American members of the staff.
6. The Government of the United States of America and the Government of Peru mutually agree : (a) that the agricultural experi-

Apr. 21 , 1942 62 STAT. ] PERU- AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION- Mar. 17, June 1, 1948

3479

ment station shall be governed by a commission composed of one representative of each of the two Governments ; that the commission

shall have authority to make all appointments after approval by the Peruvian Government, and to direct and supervise the work and in general have full responsibility and authority in all matters necessary to the proper functioning of the station, provided that the governing commission may delegate to the Director of the station such of its functions as it may deem fit ; ( b) that the United States Department of Agriculture shall provide the services of an executive secretary to assist the governing commission ; (c) that, exclusive of salaries of the scientists made available to the station by the United States Department of Agriculture, the obligations of the United States Government shall not exceed $60,000 the first year, nor more

than $40,000 in any one fiscal year thereafter ; ( d ) that the furnish-

ing of the items described under clauses (c ) , ( d ) , ( e) and ( f) of

numbered paragraph 5 , of this Agreement shall be contingent upon

the availability of supplies of such items in the United States ; and Peruvian obliga.
(e) that the obligations assumed by the Government of Peru under tions, limitation.

numbered paragraph 3, and clauses ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c) of numbered

paragraph 4, shall not be construed to commit the Peruvian Gov-

ernment to an additional expenditure in excess of 1,000,000 soles. 7. This Agreement shall come in force on the day of signature
and shall continue in force for a period of ten years, unless the Congress of either country shall fail to appropriate the funds necessary for its execution in which event it may be terminated on sixty days written notice by either Government.

Entry into force; duration.

For the United States of America CLAUDE R. WICKARD

Secretary of Agriculture

For the Republic of Peru DAVID DASSO
Minister of Finance

WASHINGTON, D. C. April 21, 1942

3480

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

September 28 , 29, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1867]

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting passport visas. Effected by exchange of notes verbales dated at Rome September 28 and 29 , 1948; entered into force September 29, 1948 .

The Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

Ministero degli Affari Esteri D.G.E. · Stranieri

' 04165
0 3

NOTA VERBALE

Il Ministero degli Alfari Esteri ha l'onore di comuni= care all'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America che il Gover= no Italiano ha deciso di abolire a partire dal 1 novembre p.v. -· il visto ai passaporti dei cittadini statunitensi che
intendano transitare per l'Italia o soggiornarvi per un perio= do non superiore a tre mesi continuativi . Le competenti auto= rità di Pubblica Sicurezza potranno accordare proroghe del per messo di soggiorno , a richiesta degli interessati , per un pe= riodo massimo di tre mesi .

I cittadini statunitensi che intendano trattenersi in I talia per un più lungo soggiorno o a tempo indeterminato dovran no munirsi , prima di intraprendere il viaggio , di un visto che sarà rilasciato dalle rappresentanze italiane all'estero dopo aver consultato la competente autorità centrale .

Il Ministero degli Affari Esteri è stato lieto di appren dere dal pro-memoria dell'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'Ameri ca N. 308 del 27 giugno 1947 e da ulteriori comunicazioni , che il suo Governo è disposto a concedere , ai sudditi italiani che intendano recarsi in visita temporanea negli Stati Uniti , vi = sti per non- immigranti validi per la presentazione ad un porto di sbarco una o più volte nel periodo di due anni . Tale visto avrà la validità del passaporto su cui è apposto , entro il ter mine massimo di due anni .

L'autorità centrale italiana farà conoscere la propria
decisione in merito alle domande di lungo soggiorno dei citta dini statunitensi entro due mesi dal ricevimento delle singole
domande . Si gradirebbe che , entro lo stesso termine , i Consolas ti degli Stati Uniti d'America si impegnassero ad accettare, le domande dei cittadini italiani desiderosi di ottenere un visto
quali " non-immigranti " od a far conoscere il motivo dell'evens tuale rifiuto .

Il Ministero degli Affari Esteri ha l'onore di pregare
l'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America di far conoscere le gue vedute in merito alle disposizioni di cui sopra e di comu nicarne la data di entrata in vigore .

Roma , 11 28 SET 1948

AFFARI

MINISETR O

ESTERI

ALL'AMBASCIATA DEGLI STATI UNITI D'AMERICA ROMA

62 STAT. ] ITALY-PASSPORT VISAS- SEPT. 28, 29, 1948
Translation MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
D.G.E. Aliens 04165/30 NOTE VERBALE
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor to communicate to the Embassy of the United States of America that the Italian Government has decided to abolish, beginning November 1 next, the visa on passports of American citizens who intend to pass through Italy or sojourn there for a period not exceeding three consecutive months. The competent authorities of the Security Police may grant extensions of the residence permit, at the request of the persons concerned , for a maximum period of three months.
United States citizens who intend to remain in Italy for a longer or indefinite period must provide themselves, before beginning the trip, with a visa which will be granted by Italian representatives abroad after consultation with the competent central authority.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was pleased to learn from the American Embassy's pro memoria , no. 308 of June 27, 1947, and from subsequent communications, that its Government is prepared to grant to Italian citizens intending to go to the United States for a temporary stay non-immigrant visas valid for presentation at a port of disembarkation one or more times in a two-year period. Such visa will have the validity of the passport on which it is placed for a maximum period of two years.
The Italian central authorities will make their decision known with reference to the applications of United States citizens for a long stay within two months after receipt of the respective applications. It would be appreciated if, within the same period, the consuls of the United States of America would undertake to accept the applications of Italian citizens desiring to obtain a non-immigrant visa or make known their reasons in case of refusal.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor to request the Embassy of the United States of America to make its views known with respect to the provisions alluded to above and to communicate the date of entry into force.
ROME, September 28, 1948 MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
The Embassy of the United States of America Rome

3481

3482

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat. The American Embassy to the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs

F. O. No. 1887

NOTE VERBALE

Waiver by Italy of designated visas to U. S. citizens.
Ante, p. 3481.

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and has the honor to acknowledge with pleasure the Ministry's Note No. 04165/30 of Sep-

tember 28, 1948 regarding the decision of the Italian Government to

waive from November 1 , 1948 visas on passports of United States citizens who intend to transit through Italy or stay in Italy for not

exceeding three consecutive months, with the privilege of extension

Grant by U. S. of non-immigrant visas to Italian subjects.

for a maximum period of three months. American consular offices are being instructed by the Department
of State, effective November 1 , 1948, to grant non-immigrant visas

43 Stat. 154. 8 U. S. C. § 203 (2) . 62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 7.

valid for 24 months to Italian subjects classified as temporary visitors under Section 3 ( 2 ) of the United States Immigration Act of 1924, as amended, as long as visa requirements are waived for American

citizens proceeding to Italy for a visit, or in transit. The 24 months'

period of validity will apply only to temporary visitors classified

under Section 3 ( 2 ) of the Act ; visas issued to government officials and

members of international organizations under Sections 3 ( 1 ) and 3 (7)

67423. Stat. 154; 59 Stat. (7)S. U . S. C. § 203 (1) ,

of the Act, will continue to be issued valid for twelve months. The waiver of passport visa fees for non-immigrant temporary visitors is continued.

In considering the period of validity for two years it should be

understood that the visas granted would be valid for presentation at

a port of entry at any time, or any number of times, during the two-

year period. It would have no relation to the period of stay in the country which may be granted to the bearer of such a visa if he is

admitted into the country after inspection at the port of entry. In

accordance with existing procedure, the immigration officials at the

port of entry would continue to specify the authorized length of stay

of an alien for each visit. In general the passport of an alien must

be valid for a period of at least 60 days beyond the period of the alien's contemplated stay in the United States.

No visa granted for a period of two years would be valid for such

period unless the passport or other acceptable travel document of the bearer is valid for such period. However, if the passport or

travel document is not valid for the full period of two years at the

time the visa is granted the passport or travel document may be ex-

tended by the issuing authority for the full period of two years or more, in which event the visa would be considered as valid for the

Italian action respecting longer soJourns of U. B.citizens.

full period of two years. The Embassy notes that the Italian authorities will take action on
applications for longer sojourns of United States citizens within two

months and agrees, insofar as possible within the limits of American

62 STAT. ] ITALY- PASSPORT VISAS- SEPT. 28, 29, 1948

law, to act on applications for visas submitted by Italian citizens within the same period of time.

ROME, September 29, 1948.

HMB

To the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Rome.

3483

68706-52- PT. III- -56

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-- AUG. 2, 1948 3485

Constitution of the International Labor Organization Instrument of Amendment adopted at Montreal, October 9, 1946, by the General Conference of the International Labor Organization. Acceptance by the United States of America deposited with the International Labor Office August 2, 1948.

August 2, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1868]

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION INSTRUMENT OF AMENDMENT, 1946
ADOPTED BY THE CONFERENCE AT ITS TWENTY-NINTH SESSION MONTREAL , 9 OCTOBER 1946

INSTRUMENT D'AMENDEMENT A LA CONSTITUTION DE L'ORGANISATION INTERNATIONALE DU TRAVAIL, 1946
ADOPTÉS PAR LA CONFÉRENCE A SA VINGT-NEUVIÈME SESSION MONTRÉAL, 9 OCTOBRE 1946

3486

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

INSTRUMENT FOR THE AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITU. TION OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION

The General Conference of the International Labour Organisation, Having been convened at Montreal by the Governing Body of the
International Labour Office, and having met in its Twentyninth Session on 19 September 1946 ; and Having decided upon the adoption of certain amendments to the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation, a question which is included in the second item on the agenda of the Session,

adopts , this ninth day of October of the year one thousand nine hundred and forty-six, the following instrument for the amendment of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation , which may be cited as the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation Instrument of Amendment, 1946 :

Effective date. Post, p. 3490.

Article 1
As from the date of the coming into force of this Instrument of Amendment, the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation, of which the text at present in force is set forth in the first column of the Annex to this Instrument, shall have effect as amended in the second column of the said Annex.

Article 2

Authenticated and
certified copies, disposition .

Two copies of this Instrument of Amendment shall be authenticated by the signatures of the President of the Conference and of the Director-General of the International Labour Office. One of these

copies shall be deposited in the archives of the International Labour

Office and the other shall be communicated to the Secretary-General

59 Stat. 1052.

of the United Nations for registration in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations . The Director-General will

communicate a certified copy of the Instrument to all the Members

of the International Labour Organisation.

Article 3

Notification of ratifications or accept-

1. The formal ratifications or acceptances of this Instrument of

ances.

Amendment shall be communicated to the Director-General of the

Entry into force. Post, p. 3550.

International Labour Office, who shall notify the Members of the Organisation of the receipt thereof.
2. This Instrument of Amendment will come into force in accordance with the provisions of Article 36 of the Constitution of the

Organisation.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-- AUG. 2, 1948 3487
INSTRUMENT POUR L'AMENDEMENT DE LA CONSTITUTION DE L'ORGANISATION INTERNATIONALE DU TRAVAIL
La Conférence générale de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, Convoquée à Montréal par le Conseil d'administration du Bureau
international du Travail, et s'y étant réunie, le 19 septembre 1946, en sa vingt-neuvième session, Après avoir décidé d'adopter certaines propositions d'amendement à la Constitution de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, question qui est comprise dans le deuxième point à l'ordre du jour de la session, adopte, ce neuvième jour d'octobre mil neuf cent quarante-six, l'instrument ci- après pour l'amendement à la Constitution de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, instrument qui sera dénommé Instrument d'amendement à la Constitution de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, 1946 :
Article 1 A partir de la date de l'entrée en vigueur du présent instrument d'amendement, la Constitution de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, dont le texte actuellement en vigueur est reproduit dans la première colonne de l'annexe au présent instrument, aura effet dans la forme amendée qui figure à la deuxième colonne de ladite annexe.
Article 2 Deux exemplaires authentiques du présent instrument d'amendement seront signés par le Président de la Conférence et par le Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail. L'un de ces exemplaires sera déposé aux archives du Bureau international du Travail, et l'autre entre les mains du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies aux fins d'enregistrement conformément aux termes du l'article 102 de la Charte des Nations Unies. Le Directeur général communiquera une copie certifiée conforme de cet instrument à chacun des Membres de l'Organisation internationale du Travail.
Article 8 1. Les ratifications ou acceptations formelles du présent instrument d'amendement seront communiquées au Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail, qui en informera les Membres de l'Organisation. 2. Le présent instrument d'amendement entrera en vigueur dans les conditions prévues à l'article 36 de la Constitution de l'Organisation internationale du Travail.

3488

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Notification ofentry into force.

3. On the coming into force of this Instrument , the DirectorGeneral of the International Labour Office shall so notify all the Members of the International Labour Organisation, the Secretary-

General of the United Nations, and all the States having signed the Charter of the United Nations . [']

By letter, dated May 7, 1948, the Director-General of the International Labor Office at Geneva, notified the Under Secretary of Labor, Department of Labor, at Washington as follows: " . . . the requisite number of ratifications and acceptances having been communicated to me, the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation Instrument of Amendment, 1946, came into force on 20 April 1948, the date on which the thirty-seventh ratification or acceptance was received by the International Labour Office." See post, p . 3573, for a list showing, as of Aug. 10, 1948, the countries which have formally communicated to the International Labor Office their respective instruments of ratification or acceptance of the Instrument.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3489
3. Dès l'entrée en vigueur du présent instrument, le Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail en informera tous les Membres de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies et tous les Etats signataires de la Charte des Nations Unies.

3490

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. ANNEX

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION

Text in force on 9 October 1946

Amended Text

SECTION I

PREAMBLE

ORGANISATION OF LABOUR

Whereas the League of Nations Whereas universal and lasting has for its object the establish- peace can be established only if it ment of universal peace , and such is based upon social justice ; a peace can be established only if it is based upon social justice ;

And whereas conditions of la- And whereas conditions of la-

bour exist involving such injustice, bour exist involving such injustice, hardship and privation to large hardship and privation to large numbers of people as to produce numbers of people as to produce unrest so great that the peace and unrest so great that the peace and harmony of the world are im- harmony of the world are imperilled ; and an improvement of perilled ; and an improvement of those conditions is urgently re- those conditions is urgently required: as , for example, by the quired: as, for example, by the regulation of the hours of work, regulation of the hours of work, including the establishment of a including the establishment of a
maximum working day and week, maximum working day and week, the regulation of the labour sup- the regulation of the labour supply, ply, the prevention of unemploy- the prevention of unemployment, ment, the provision of an adequate the provision of an adequate living living wage, the protection of the wage, the protection of the worker worker against sickness, disease against sickness , disease and inand injury arising out of his em- jury arising out of his employployment, the protection of chil- ment, the protection of children, dren, young persons and women, young persons and women, proprovision for old age and injury, vision for old age and injury, proprotection of the interests of tection of the interests of workers workers when employed in coun- when employed in countries other
tries other than their own, recog- than their own, recognition of the

nition of the principle of freedom principle of equal remuneration

of association, the organisation of for work of equal value, recogni-

vocational and technical educa- tion of the principle of freedom of

tion and other measures ;

association, the organisation of

vocational and technical education

and other measures ;

Whereas also the failure of any Whereas also the failure of any nation to adopt humane conditions nation to adopt humane conditions of labour is an obstacle in the way of labour is an obstacle in the way

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3491 ANNEXE
CONSTITUTION DE L'ORGANISATION INTERNATIONALE DU TRAVAIL

Texte en vigueur le 9 octob re 1946

Texte amendé

SECTION 1 ORGANISATION DU TRAVAIL

PRÉAMBULE

Attendu que la Société des Attendu qu'une paix universelle Nations a pour but d'établir la et durable ne peut être fondée paix universelle, et qu'une telle que sur la base de la justice paix ne peut être fondée que sur sociale ; la base de la justice sociale;

Attendu qu'il existe des con- Attendu qu'il existe des conditions de travail impliquant pour ditions de travail impliquant pour un grand nombre de personnes un grand nombre de personnes

l'injustice, la misère et les priva- l'injustice, la misère et les privations, ce qui engendre un tel tions , ce qui engendre un tel mécontentement que la paix et mécontentement que la paix et l'harmonie universelles sont mises l'harmonie universelles sont mises

en danger, et attendu qu'il est en danger, et attendu qu'il est urgent d'améliorer ces conditions : urgent d'améliorer ces conditions : par exemple, en ce qui concerne la par exemple, en ce qui concerne réglementation des heures de tra- la réglementation des heures de vail , la fixation d'une durée maxi- travail , la fixation d'une durée mum de la journée et de la maximum de la journée et de la semaine de travail , le recrutement semaine de travail , le recrutement de la main-d'oeuvre, la lutte de la main-d'oeuvre , la lutte contre le chômage, la garantie d'un contre le chômage, la garantie salaire assurant des conditions d'un salaire assurant des con-

d'existence convenables, la pro- ditions d'existence convenables, tection des travailleurs contre les la protection des travailleurs con-

maladies générales ou profession- tre les maladies générales ou pronelles et les accidents résultant du fessionnelles et les accidents ré-

travail, la protection des enfants, sultant du travail, la protection des adolescents et des femmes , les des enfants, des adolescents et pensions de vieillesse et d'invali- des femmes, les pensions de vieildité, la défense des intérêts des lesse et d'invalidité, la défense des

travailleurs occupés à l'étranger, intérêts des travailleurs occupés à

l'affirmation du principe de la l'étranger, l'affirmation du prin-

liberté syndicale , l'organisation de cipe « à travail égal , salaire égal » ,

l'enseignement professionnel et l'affirmation du principe de la

technique et autres mesures ana- liberté syndicale, l'organisation

logues ;

de l'enseignement professionnel

et technique et autres mesures

analogues ; Attendu que la non-adoption Attendu que la non-adoption

par une nation quelconque d'un par une nation quelconque d'un régime de travail réellement régime de travail réellement

3492

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

of other nations which desire to of other nations which desire to

improve the conditions in their improve the conditions in their

own countries ;

own countries ;

The HIGH CONTRACTING PAR- The HIGH CONTRACTING PAR-

TIES, moved by sentiments of TIES, moved by sentiments of

justice and humanity as well as by justice and humanity as well as by

the desire to secure the perma- the desire to secure the permanent

nent peace of the world, agree to peace of the world, and with a

the following Constitution of the view to attaining the objectives

International Labour Organisa- set forth in this Preamble, agree to

tion:

the following Constitution of the

International Labour Organisation:

CHAPTER I- ORGANISATION

CHAPTER I -- ORGANISATION

Post, p. 3554. Members.

Article 1

Article 1

1. A permanent organisation is 1. A permanent organisation is

hereby established for the pro- hereby established for the promo-

motion of the objects set forth in tion of the objects set forth in the

the Preamble.

Preamble to this Constitution and

in the Declaration concerning the

aims and purposes of the International Labour Organisation

adopted at Philadelphia on 10 May 1944 the text of which is annexed to this Constitution.

2. The Members of the Inter- 2. The Members of the International Labour Organisation shall national Labour Organisation shall be the States which were Mem- be the States which were Members bers of the Organisation on 1 of the Organisation on 1 November November 1945 , and such other 1945 , and such other States as States as may become Members may become Members in purin pursuance of the provisions of suance of the provisions of paraparagraphs 3 and 4 of this Article. graphs 3 and 4 of this Article.

3. Any original Member of the 3. Any original Member of the United Nations and any State ad- United Nations and any State admitted to membership of the mitted to membership of the United Nations by a decision of United Nations by a decision of the General Assembly in accord- the General Assembly in accordance with the provisions of the ance with the provisions of the Charter may become a Member of Charter may become a Member of the International Labour Organi- the International Labour Organisation by communicating to the sation by communicating to the Director of the International La- Director-General of the Internabour Office its formal acceptance tional Labour Office its formal ac-
of the obligations of the Constitu- ceptance of the obligations of the

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION --AUG . 2, 1948 3493

humain fait obstacle aux efforts humain fait obstacle aux efforts des autres nations désireuses des autres nations désireuses

d'améliorer le sort des travailleurs d'améliorer le sort des travailleurs

dans leurs propres pays ;

dans leurs propres pays ;

LES HAUTES PARTIES CON- LES HAUTES PARTIES CON-

TRACTANTES, mues par des senti- TRACTANTES , mues par des sentiments de justice et d'humanité ments de justice et d'humanité aussi bien que par le désir d'assurer aussi bien que par le désir d'assurer une paix mondiale durable, ap- une paix mondiale durable, et en prouvent la présente Constitution vue d'atteindre les buts énoncés

de l'Organisation du Travail :

internationale dans ce préambule, approuvent la présente Constitution de l'Organisation internationale du Travail :

CHAPITRE PREMIER. ORGANISATION

CHAPITRE PREMIER. ORGANISATION

Article 1

Article 1

1. Il est fondé une organisation 1. Il est fondé une organisation

permanente chargée de travailler permanente chargée de travailler

à la réalisation du programme à la réalisation du programme

exposé dans le préambule.

exposé dans le préambule de la présente Constitution et dans la

Déclaration concernant les buts

et objectifs de l'Organisation internationale du Travail qui a été adoptée à Philadelphie le 10 mai 1944 et dont le texte figure en annexe à la présente Constitution .

2. Les Membres de l'Organisa- 2. Les Membres de l'Organisation internationale du Travail tion internationale du Travail

seront les Etats qui étaient Mem- seront les Etats qui étaient Membres de l'Organisation au 1er bres de l'Organisation au 1er

novembre 1945 et tous autres novembre 1945 et tous autres

Etats qui deviendraient Membres Etats qui deviendraient Membres conformément aux dispositions conformément aux dispositions

des paragraphes 3 et 4 du présent des paragraphes 3 et 4 du présent

article.

article .

3. Tout Membre originaire des 3. Tout Membre originaire des

Nations Unies et tout Etat admis Nations Unies et tout Etat admis

en qualité de Membre des Nations en qualité de Membre des Nations Unies par décision de l'Assemblée Unies par décision de l'Assemblée générale conformément aux dis- générale conformément aux dispositions de la Charte peut devenir positions de la Charte peut devenir Membre de l'Organisation inter- Membre de l'Organisation internationale du Travail en communi- nationale du Travail en commu-

quant au Directeur du Bureau niquant au Directeur général du international du Travail son ac- Bureau international du Travail

ceptation formelle des obligations son acceptation formelle des oblidécoulant de la Constitution de gations découlant de la Consti-

3494 Admission.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

tion of the International Labour Constitution of the International

Organisation.

Labour Organisation .

4. The General Conference of 4. The General Conference of

the International Labour Organi- the International Labour Organi-

sation may also admit Members to sation may also admit Members to the Organisation by a vote con- the Organisation by a vote con curred in by two thirds of the curred in by two thirds of the delegates attending the Session , delegates attending the session , inincluding two thirds of the Gov- cluding two thirds of the Governernment delegates present and ment delegates present and voting. voting. Such admission shall take Such admission shall take effect on effect on the communication to the the communication to the Director-

Director of the International La- General of the International La-

bour Office by the Government of bour Office by the Government of the new Member of its formal ac- the new Member of its formal ac-

ceptance of the obligations of the ceptance of the obligations of the Constitution of the Organisation . Constitution of the Organisation.

Withdrawal. Readmission.

5. No Member of the Interna- 5. No Member of the Interna-

tional Labour Organisation may tional Labour Organisation may withdraw from the Organisation withdraw from the Organisation

without giving notice of its inten- without giving notice of its intention so to do to the Director of the tion so to do to the DirectorInternational Labour Office . Such General of the International La-

notice shall take effect two years bour Office . Such notice shall take after the date of its reception by effect two years after the date of

the Director, subject to the Mem- its reception by the Directorber having at that time fulfilled all General, subject to the Member financial obligations arising out of having at that time fulfilled all its membership. When a Member financial obligations arising out of

has ratified any International La- its membership. When a Member

bour Convention , such withdrawal has ratified any International Lashall not affect the continued va- bour Convention, such withdrawal

lidity for the period provided for shall not affect the continued va-

in the Convention of all obliga- lidity for the period provided for

tions arising thereunder or relating in the Convention of all obliga-

thereto .

tions arising thereunder or relating thereto .

6. In the event of any State 6. In the event of any State having ceased to be a Member of having ceased to be a Member of the Organisation, its readmission the Organisation, its readmission to membership shall be governed to membership shall be governed

by the provisions of paragraph 3 by the provisions of paragraph 3

or paragraph 4 of this Article as or paragraph 4 of this Article as

the case may be.

the case may be.

Article 2

Article 2

The permanent shall consist of:

organisation The permanent shall consist of:

organisation

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG . 2, 1948 3495

l'Organisation internationale du tution de l'Organisation inter-

Travail. ·

nationale du Travail.

4. La Conférence générale de 4. La Conférence générale de

l'Organisation internationale du l'Organisation internationale du Travail peut également admettre Travail peut également admettre des Membres dans l'Organisation des Membres dans l'Organisation

à la majorité des deux tiers des à la majorité des deux tiers des délégués présents à la session, y délégués présents à la session, y compris les deux tiers des délégués compris les deux tiers des délégouvernementaux présents et vo- gués gouvernementaux présents et tants . Cette admission deviendra votants . Cette admission devien-

effective lorsque le gouvernement dra effective lorsque le gouvernedu nouveau Membre aura com- ment du nouveau Membre aura

muniqué au Directeur du Bureau communiqué au Directeur général international du Travail son ac- du Bureau international du Tra-

ceptation formelle des obligations vail son acceptation formelle des

découlant de la Constitution de obligations découlant de la Con-

l'Organisation .

stitution de l'Organisation .

5. Aucun Membre de l'Organi- 5. Aucun Membre de l'Organi-

sation internationale du Travail sation internationale du Travail

ne pourra s'en retirer sans avoir ne pourra s'en retirer sans avoir donné préavis de son intention au donné préavis de son intention au Directeur du Bureau international Directeur général du Bureau in-

du Travail. Ce préavis portera ternational du Travail. Ce préaeffet deux ans après la date de sa vis portera effet deux ans après la réception par le Directeur, sous date de sa réception par le Direc-

réserve que le Membre ait à cette teur général , sous réserve que le date rempli toutes les obligations Membre ait à cette date rempli

financières résultant de sa qualité toutes les obligations financières de Membre. Lorsqu'un Membre résultant de sa qualité de Memaura ratifié une convention inter- bre. Lorsqu'un Membre aura

nationale du travail , ce retrait ratifié une convention interna-

n'affectera pas la validité, pour la tionale du travail, ce retrait

période prévue par la convention , n'affectera pas la validité, pour

des obligations résultant de la la période prévue par la conven-

convention ou y relatives.

tion, des obligations résultant de

la convention ou y relatives.

6. Au cas où un Etat aurait 6. Au cas où un Etat aurait

cessé d'être Membre de l'Organi- cessé d'être Membre de l'Organi-

sation, sa réadmission en qualité sation, sa réadmission en qualité

de Membre sera régie par les dis- de Membre sera régie par les dis-

positions des paragraphes 3 ou 4 positions des paragraphes 3 ou 4

du présent article .

du présent article.

Article 2

Article 2

L'Organisation permanente com- L'Organisation permanente com-

prendra:

prendra:

3496

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

General Conference. 1. A General Conference of (a) a General Conference of

Governing Body. Post, p. 3500. boIunrteOrffniactei. onal La

Representatives of the Members representatives of the Members ; and

2. An International Labour Of- (b) a Governing Body composed

fice controlled by the Governing as described in Article 7 ; and

Body described in Article 7 .

(c) an International Labour Of-

fice controlled by the Governing

Body.

Meetings.

Article 8

Article 3

1. The meetings of the General 1. The meetings of the General Conference of Representatives of Conference of representatives of the Members shall be held from the Members shall be held from

time to time as occasion may re- time to time as occasion may re-

quire, and at least once in every quire , and at least once in every

year. It shall be composed of year. It shall be composed of four Representatives of each of four representatives of each of the

the Members , of whom two shall Members, of whom two shall be be Government Delegates and the Government delegates and the two two others shall be Delegates others shall be delegates repre-

representing respectively the em- senting respectively the employers

ployers and the workpeople of and the workpeople of each of the

each of the Members .

Members .

Advisers to Delegates.

2. Each Delegate may be accom- 2. Each delegate may be ac-
panied by advisers, who shall not companied by advisers, who shall exceed two in number for each not exceed two in number for

item on the agenda of the meeting. each item on the agenda of the

When questions specially affecting meeting. When questions spewomen are to be considered by cially affecting women are to be

the Conference, one at least of the considered by the Conference , one

advisers should be a woman.

at least of the advisers should be

a woman.

3. Each Member which is responsible for the international relations of non-metropolitan territories may appoint as additional advisers to each of its delegates:
(a) persons nominated by it as representatives of any such territory in regard to matters within the self- governing powers of that territory ; and

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG. 2, 1948 3497

1. une Conférence générale des a) une Conférence générale des

représentants des Membres ;

représentants des Membres ;

2. un Bureau international du b) un Conseil d'administration

Travail sous la direction du Con- composé comme il est dit à l'article

seil d'administration l'article 7.

prévu

àû 7; c) un Bureau international du

Travail sous la direction du Con-

seil d'administration.

Article 3

Article 8

1. La Conférence générale des 1. La Conférence générale des représentants des Membres tiendra représentants des Membres tiendes sessions chaque fois que besoin dra des sessions chaque fois que sera et, au moins, une fois par an. besoin sera et, au moins, une fois Elle sera composée de quatre par an . Elle sera composée de représentants de chacun des Mem- quatre représentants de chacun bres, dont deux seront les délégués des Membres, dont deux seront du gouvernement et dont les deux les délégués du gouvernement et autres représenteront respective- dont les deux autres représentement, d'une part, les employeurs , ront respectivement, d'une part, d'autre part, les travailleurs res- les employeurs, d'autre part, les sortissant à chacun des Membres . travailleurs ressortissant à chacun
des Membres.

2. Chaque délégué pourra être 2. Chaque délégué pourra être

accompagné par des conseillers accompagné par des conseillers

techniques , dont le nombre pourra techniques dont le nombre pourra être de deux au plus pour chacune être de deux au plus pour chacune des matières distinctes inscrites à des matières distinctes inscrites à

l'ordre du jour de la session . l'ordre du jour de la session . Quand des questions intéressant Quand des questions intéressant spécialement des femmes doivent spécialement des femmes doivent venir en discussion à la Confé- venir en discussion à la Confé-

rence, une au moins parmi les rence, une au moins parmi les

personnes désignées comme con- personnes désignées comme con-

seillers techniques devra être une seillers techniques devra être une

femme.

femme.

3. Tout Membre responsable des relations internationales de territoires non métropolitains pourra désigner comme conseillers techniques supplémentaires pour accompagner chacun de ses délégués :

a) des personnes désignées par lui comme représentants d'un tel territoire pour certaines questions entrant dans le cadre de la compétence propre des autorités dudit territoire ;

3498

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(b) persons nominated by it to advise its delegates in regard to matters concerning nonself-governing territories.

4. In the case of a territory
under the joint authority of two or more Members, persons may be nominated to advise the delegates of such Members .

3. The Members undertake to 5. The Members undertake to

nominate non-Government Dele- nominate non-Government dele-

gates and advisers chosen in gates and advisers chosen in agreeagreement with the industrial ment with the industrial organisa-

organisations, if such organisations tions, if such organisations exist,

exist, which are most representa- which are most representative of

tive of employers or workpeople, employers or workpeople, as the

as the case may be, in their case may be, in their respective

respective countries.

countries .

4. Advisers shall not speak ex- 6. Advisers shall not speak ex-

cept on a request made by the cept on a request made by the

Delegate whom they accompany delegate whom they accompany and by the special authorisation and by the special authorisation of the President of the Conference, of the President of the Conference,

and may not vote.

and may not vote.

5. A Delegate may by notice in 7. A delegate may by notice in

writing addressed to the President writing addressed to the President

appoint one of his advisers to act appoint one of his advisers to act

as his deputy, and the adviser, as his deputy, and the adviser,

while so acting, shall be allowed to while so acting, shall be allowed to

speak and vote .

speak and vote.

6. The names of the Delegates 8. The names of the delegates and their advisers will be commu- and their advisers will be commu-

nicated to the International La- nicated to the International La-

bour Office by the Government of bour Office by the Government of

each of the Members.

each of the Members .

Credentials of Del- 7. The credentials of Delegates 9. The credentials of delegates egates and advisers.
and their advisers shall be subject and their advisers shall be subject

to scrutiny by the Conference, to scrutiny by the Conference, which may, by two thirds of the which may, by two thirds of the

votes cast by the Delegates pres- votes cast by the delegates present,

ent, refuse to admit any Delegate refuse to admit any delegate or

or adviser whom it deems not adviser whom it deems not to have

to have been nominated in been nominated in accordance

accordance with this Article.

with this Article .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG . 2, 1948 3499

b) des personnes désignées par lui pour assister ses délégués au sujet des questions intéressant des territoires qui ne se gou-

vernent pas eux-mêmes .

4. S'il s'agit d'un territoire placé

sous l'autorité conjointe de deux ou plusieurs Membres, des per-

sonnes pourront être désignées pour assister les délégués de ces Membres .

3. Les Membres s'engagent à 5. Les Membres s'engagent à

désigner les délégués et conseillers désigner les délégués et conseillers

techniques non gouvernementaux techniques non gouvernementaux

d'accord avec les organisations d'accord avec les organisations

professionnelles les plus repré- professionnelles les plus repré-

sentatives soit des employeurs , soit sentatives soit des employeurs , soit

des travailleurs du pays considéré, des travailleurs du pays considéré,

sous la réserve que de telles orga- sous la réserve que de telles orga-

nisations existent.

nisations existent.

4. Les conseillers techniques ne 6. Les conseillers techniques ne

seront autorisés à prendre la parole seront autorisés à prendre la que sur la demande faite par le parole que sur la demande faite délégué auquel ils sont adjoints par le délégué auquel ils sont ad-

et avec l'autorisation spéciale du joints et avec l'autorisation spéPrésident de la Conférence ; ils ne ciale du Président de la Conpourront prendre part aux votes . férence ; ils ne pourront prendre
part aux votes . 5. Un délégué peut, par une 7. Un délégué peut, par une

note écrite adressée au Président, note écrite adressée au Président, désigner l'un de ses conseillers désigner l'un de ses conseillers

techniques comme son suppléant , techniques comme son suppléant ,

et ledit suppléant , en cette qualité, et ledit suppléant, en cette qualité,

pourra prendre part aux délibé- pourra prendre part aux délibé

rations et aux votes.

rations et aux votes.

6. Les noms des délégués et de 8. Les noms des délégués et de

leurs conseillers techniques seront leurs conseillers techniques seront

communiqués au Bureau interna- communiqués au Bureau interna-

tional du Travail par le gouverne- tional du Travail par le gouver-

ment de chacun des Membres.

nement de chacun des Membres .

7. Les pouvoirs des délégués et 9. Les pouvoirs des délégués et

de leurs conseillers techniques de leurs conseillers techniques seront soumis à la vérification de seront soumis à la vérification de la

la Conférence, laquelle pourra , Conférence, laquelle pourra, par par une majorité des deux tiers des une majorité des deux tiers des

suffrages exprimés par les délégués suffrages exprimés par les délégués présents, refuser d'admettre tout présents, refuser d'admettre tout délégué ou tout conseiller tech- délégué ou tout conseiller tech-

nique qu'elle ne jugera pas avoir nique qu'elle ne jugera pas avoir

été désigné conformément aux été désigné conformément aux

termes du présent article.

termes du présent article.

3500 Voting rights.
Ante, p. 3496.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Article 4

Article 4

1. Every Delegate shall be en- 1. Every delegate shall be en-

titled to vote individually on all titled to vote individually on all matters which are taken into matters which are taken into

consideration by the Conference. consideration by the Conference. 2. If one of the Members fails 2. If one of the Members fails

to nominate one of the non-Gov- to nominate one of the non-

ernment Delegates whom it is Government delegates whom it is entitled to nominate, the other entitled to nominate, the other non-Government Delegate shall non-Government delegate shall be be allowed to sit and speak at the allowed to sit and speak at the

Conference, but not to vote.

Conference, but not to vote.

3. If in accordance with Article 3. If in accordance with Article 3 the Conference refuses admis- 3 the Conference refuses admission sion to a Delegate of one of the to a delegate of one of the MemMembers, the provisions of the bers, the provisions of the present present Article shall apply as if Article shall apply as if that delethat Delegate had not been nomi- gate had not been nominated . nated .

Place of meeting.

Article 5

Article 5

The meetings of the Conference The meetings of the Conference shall be held at the seat of the shall, subject to any decisions League of Nations , or at such which may have been taken by other place as may be decided by the Conference itself at a previous the Conference at a previous meeting, be held at such place as meeting by two thirds of the may be decided by the Governing votes cast by the Delegates pres- Body. ent .

Article 6

Article 6

Seat ofInternational Labour Office.

The International Labour Office Any change in the seat of the

shall be established at the seat of International Labour Office shall

the League of Nations as part of be decided by the Conference by a

the organisation of the League.

two-thirds majority of the votes cast by the delegates present.

Governing Body,

Article 7

Article 7

1. The International Labour 1. The Governing Body shall Office shall be under the control consist of thirty-two persons: of a Governing Body consisting of thirty-two persons:

Sixteen representing Governments ,
Eight representing the Employers, and
Eight representing the Workers .

Sixteen representing Governments,
Eight representing the employers , and
Eight representing the workers .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG . 2, 1948 3501

Article 4

Article 4

1. Chaque délégué aura le droit 1. Chaque délégué aura le droit de voter individuellement sur de voter individuellement sur

toutes les questions soumises aux toutes les questions soumises aux

délibérations de la Conférence.

délibérations de la Conférence .

2. Dans le cas où l'un des 2. Dans le cas où l'un des

Membres n'aurait pas désigné Membres n'aurait pas désigné l'un

l'un des délégués non gouverne- des délégués non gouvernementaux

mentaux auquel il a droit, l'autre auquel il a droit, l'autre délégué

délégué non gouvernemental aura non gouvernemental aura le droit

le droit de prendre part aux dis- de prendre part aux discussions

cussions de la Conférence, mais de la Conférence, mais n'aura

n'aura pas le droit de voter.

pas le droit de voter.

3. Au cas où la Conférence, en 3. Au cas où la Conférence, en

vertu des pouvoirs que lui confère vertu des pouvoirs que lui confère l'article 3 , refuserait d'admettre l'article 3, refuserait d'admettre

l'un des délégués d'un des Mem- l'un des délégués d'un des Mem-

bres, les stipulations du présent bres, les stipulations du présent article seront appliquées comme article seront appliquées comme si si ledit délégué n'avait pas été ledit délégué n'avait pas été

désigné.

désigné.

Article 5

Article 5

Les sessions de la Conférence se Les sessions de la Conférence se
tiendront au siège de la Société tiendront, sous réserve de toute des Nations ou en tout autre lieu décision qu'aurait pu prendre la qui aura pu être fixé par la Con- Conférence elle-même au cours férence, dans une session an- d'une session antérieure, au lieu térieure, à la majorité des deux fixé par le Conseil d'administration . tiers des suffrages exprimés par les délégués présents .

Article 6

Article 6

Le Bureau international du Tout changement du siège du

Travail sera établi au siège de la Bureau international du Travail

Société des Nations et fera partie sera décidé par la Conférence à la

de l'ensemble des institutions de majorité des deux tiers des suffra-

la Société.

ges exprimés par les délégués

présents .

Article 7

Article 7

1. Le Bureau international du 1. Le Conseil d'administration

Travail sera placé sous la direction sera composé de trente -deux d'un Conseil d'administration personnes:

composé de trente-deux personnes:

Seize représentant les gouvernements ,
Huit représentant les patrons , et
Huit représentant les ouvriers.

Seize représentant les gouvernements ,
Huit représentant les employeurs et
Huit représentant les travailleurs .

3502

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2. Of the sixteen persons repre- 2. Of the sixteen persons repre-

senting Governments, eight shall senting Governments, eight shall be appointed by the Members of be appointed by the Members of chief industrial importance, and chief industrial importance, and eight shall be appointed by the eight shall be appointed by the Members selected for that purpose Members selected for that purpose

by the Government Delegates to by the Government delegates to the Conference , excluding the the Conference , excluding the deleDelegates of the eight Members gates of the eight Members menmentioned above . Of the sixteen tioned above . Of the sixteen

Members represented six shall be Members represented , six shall be

non-European States .

non-European States .

3. Any question as to which are 3. The Governing Body shall as the Members of chief industrial occasion requires determine which importance shall be decided by the are the Members of the OrganisaCouncil of the League of Nations. tion of chief industrial importance
and shall make rules to ensure
that all questions relating to the selection of the Members of chief industrial importance are con-
sidered by an impartial committee before being decided by the Governing Body. Any appeal made by a Member from the declaration of the Governing Body as to which are the Members of chief industrial importance shall be decided by the Conference, but an appeal to the Conference shall not suspend the application of the declaration until such time as the Conference de-
cides the appeal.

4. The persons representing the 4. The persons representing the Employers and the persons repre- employers and the persons representing the Workers shall be senting the workers shall be elected respectively by the Em- elected respectively by the employers' Delegates and the Work- ployers' delegates and the workers' ers' Delegates to the Conference. delegates to the Conference . Two Two Employers ' representatives employers' representatives and two and two Workers ' representatives workers' representatives shall beshall belong to non-European long to non-European States. States .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3503

2. Sur les seize personnes repré- 2. Sur les seize personnes repré-

sentant les gouvernements, huit sentant les gouvernements , huit seront nommées par les Membres seront nommées par les Membres dont l'importance industrielle est dont l'importance industrielle est la plus considérable et huit seront la plus considérable et huit seront nommées par les Membres dé- nommées par les Membres désignés à cet effet par les délégués signés à cet effet par les délégués gouvernementaux à la Conférence, gouvernementaux à la Conférence, exclusion faite des délégués des exclusion faite des délégués des huit Membres susmentionnés. Sur huit Membres susmentionnés . Sur

les seize Membres représentés, six les seize Membres représentés , six devront être des Etats extra-euro- devront être des Etats extra-

péens .

européens .

3. Les contestations éventuelles 3. Le Conseil d'administration

sur la question de savoir quels sont déterminera , chaque fois qu'il y

les Membres ayant l'importance aura lieu , quels sont les Membres

industrielle la plus considérable se- ayant l'importance industrielle la

ront tranchées par le Conseil de la plus considérable et établira des

Société des Nations .

règles en vue d'assurer l'examen,

par un comité impartial, de toutes

questions relatives à la désignation des Membres ayant l'importance industrielle la plus considérable avant que le Conseil d'adminis-

tration ne prenne une décision à cet égard. Tout appel formé par un Membre contre la déclaration du Conseil d'administration ar-

rêtant quels sont les Members ayant l'importance industrielle la

plus considérable sera tranché par la Conférence , mais un appel interjeté devant la Conférence ne suspendra pas l'application de la déclaration tant que la Conférence ne se sera pas prononcée .

4. Les personnes représentant 4. Les personnes représentant

les patrons et les personnes repré- les employeurs et les personnes sentant les ouvriers seront élues représentant les travailleurs seront respectivement par les délégués pa- élues respectivement par les délétronaux et les délégués ouvriers à gués des employeurs et les délégués la Conférence. Deux représen- des travailleurs à la Conférence .

tants des patrons et deux repré- Deux représentants des em-

sentants des ouvriers devront ap- ployeurs et deux représentants des

partenir à des Etats extra-euro- travailleurs devront appartenir à

péens .

des Etats extra-européens .

3504

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Period of office.

5. The period of office of the 5. The period of office of the

Governing Body shall be three Governing Body shall be three

years .

years. If for any reason the Gov-

erning Body elections do not take

Filling vacancies etc.

place on the expiry of this period , the Governing Body shall remain in office until such elections are held . 6. The method of filling vacan- 6. The method of filling vacancies and of appointing substitutes cies and of appointing substitutes

and other similar questions may and other similar questions may

be decided by the Governing Body be decided by the Governing Body

subject to the approval of the subject to the approval of the

Conference .

Conference .

Chairman; Vice-

Chairmen.

7. The Governing Body shall , 7. The Governing Body shall,

from time to time, elect one of its from time to time, elect from its

number to act as its Chairman, number a Chairman and two Vice-

shall regulate its own procedure, Chairmen , of whom one shall be a

and shall fix its own times of person representing a Govern-

meeting. A special meeting shall ment, one a person representing

be held if a written request to that the employers, and one a person

effect is made by at least twelve of representing the workers . the representatives on the Govern-

ing Body. Procedure; times of
meeting.

8. The Governing Body shall regulate its own procedure and

shall fix its own times of meeting. A special meeting shall be held if

a written request to that effect is

made by at least twelve of the

representatives on the Governing

Body .

Director-General.

Article 8

Article 8

1. There shall be a Director of 1. There shall be a Directorthe International Labour Office , General of the International

who shall be appointed by the Labour Office , who shall be ap-

Governing Body, and, subject to pointed by the Governing Body,

the instructions of the Governing and, subject to the instructions of

Body, shall be responsible for the the Governing Body, shall be

efficient conduct of the Interna- responsible for the efficient contional Labour Office and for such duct of the International Labour

other duties as may be assigned Office and for such other duties as

to him.

may be assigned to him.

2. The Director or his deputy 2. The Director-General or his

shall attend all meetings of the deputy shall attend all meetings

Governing Body.

of the Governing Body.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG. 2, 1948 3505

5. Le Conseil sera tous les trois ans.

renouvelé 5. Le Conseil sera renouvelé tous les trois ans. Si pour une raison quelconque, les élections au Conseil d'administration n'ont pas

lieu à l'expiration de cette période, le Conseil d'administration restera

en fonction jusqu'à ce qu'il soit procédé à ces élections .

6. La manière de pourvoir aux 6. La manière de pourvoir aux sièges vacants, la désignation des sièges vacants, la désignation des

suppléants et les autres questions suppléants et les autres questions

de même nature pourront être de même nature pourront être réréglées par le Conseil sous réserve glées par le Conseil sous réserve de

de l'approbation de la Conférence. l'approbation de la Conférence. 7. Le Conseil d'administration 7. Le Conseil d'administration

élira un président dans son sein et élira dans son sein un président et

établira son règlement . Il se ré- deux vice-présidents . Parmi ces

unira aux époques qu'il fixera lui- trois personnes l'une sera une per-

même. Une session spéciale de- sonne représentant un gouvernevra être tenue chaque fois que ment, et les deux autres seront

douze personnes faisant partie du respectivement des personnes re-

Conseil auront formulé une de- présentant les employeurs et les

mande écrite à cet effet.

travailleurs .

8. Le Conseil d'administration établira son règlement et se réunira aux époques qu'il fixera luimême. Une session spéciale devra être tenue chaque fois que douze personnes faisant partie du Conseil auront formulé une demande écrite à cet effet.

Article 8

Article 8

1. Un Directeur sera placé à la 1. Un Directeur général sera tête du Bureau international du placé à la tête du Bureau interna-

Travail ; il sera désigné par le Con- tional du Travail ; il sera désigné seil d'administration de qui il rece- par le Conseil d'administration de vra ses instructions et vis-à-vis de qui il recevra ses instructions et qui il sera responsable de la bonne vis-à-vis de qui il sera responsable

marche du Bureau ainsi que de de la bonne marche du Bureau l'exécution de toutes autres tâches ainsi que de l'exécution de toutes

qui auront pu lui être confiées .

autres tâches qui auront pu lui

être confiées.

2. Le Directeur ou son supplé- 2. Le Directeur général ou son

ant assisteront à toutes les séances suppléant assisteront à toutes les

du Conseil d'administration.

séances du Conseil d'administra-

tion.

3506 Staff.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 9

Article 9

The staff of the International 1. The staff of the International
Labour Office shall be appointed Labour Office shall be appointed by by the Director, who shall, so far the Director-General under reguas is possible with due regard to lations approved by the Governing the efficiency of the work of the Body. Office, select persons of different 2. So far as is possible with due nationalities . A certain number regard to the efficiency of the work of these persons shall be women. of the Office , the Director- General
shall select persons of different nationalities .

Responsibilities.

3. A certain number of these persons shall be women.
4. The responsibilities of the Director-General and the staff shall be exclusively international in character. In the performance of their duties, the DirectorGeneral and the staff shall not seek or receive instructions from any Government or from any other authority external to the Organisation . They shall refrain from any action which might reflect on their position as inter-
national officials responsible only to the Organisation.

Functions

Article 10

5. Each Member of the Organisation undertakes to respect the exclusively international character of the responsibilities of the Director-General and the staff and not to seek to influence them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Article 10

1. The functions of the Inter- 1. The functions of the International Labour Office shall in- national Labour Office shall include the collection and distribu- clude the collection and distribution of information on all subjects tion of information on all subjects relating to the international ad- relating to the international adjustment of conditions of indus- justment of conditions of industrial life and labour , and trial life and labour, and

particularly the examination of particularly the examination of subjects which it is proposed to subjects which it is proposed to bring before the Conference with a bring before the Conference with

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG . 2, 1948 3507

Article 9

Article 9

Le personnel du Bureau inter- 1. Le personnel du Bureau innational du Travail sera choisi ternational du Travail sera choisi

par le Directeur. Le choix fait par le Directeur général conformé-

devra porter, dans toute la mesure ment aux règles approuvées par Te

compatible avec le souci d'obtenir Conseil d'administration. le meilleur rendement, sur des 2. Le choix fait par le Directeur

personnes de différentes nationa- général devra porter, dans toute la lités . Un certain nombre de ces mesure compatible avec le souci personnes devront être des d'obtenir le meilleur rendement,

femmes .

sur des personnes de différentes nationalités .

3. Un certain nombre de ces personnes devront être des femmes .
4. Les fonctions du Directeur

général et du personnel auront un caractère exclusivement international. Dans l'accomplissement de leurs devoirs , le Directeur

général et le personnel ne solliciteront n'y n'accepteront d'instructions d'aucun gouvernement ni d'aucune autorité extérieure a l'Organisation . Ils s'abstiendront de tout acte incompatible avec leur situation de fonctionnaires internationaux qui ne sont responsables qu'envers l'Organisation .

5. Chaque Membre de l'Organisation s'engage à respecter le caractère exclusivement international des fonctions du Directeur

général et du personnel et à ne pas chercher à les influencer dans l'exécution de leur tâche.

Article 10

Article 10

1. Les fonctions du Bureau 1. Les fonctions du Bureau in-

international du Travail compren- ternational du Travail comprendront la centralisation et la dis- dront la centralisation et la distritribution de toutes informations bution de toutes informations con-

concernant la réglementation in- cernant la réglementation interternationale de la condition des nationale de la condition des
travailleurs et du régime du travail travailleurs et du régime du travail et, en particulier, l'étude des et , en particulier , l'étude des quesquestions qu'il est proposé de tions qu'il est proprosé de soumetsoumettre aux discussions de la tre aux discussions de la Conférence
68706-52- PT. III- -57

3508

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

view to the conclusion of interna- a view to the conclusion of inter-

tional conventions, and the con- national Conventions, and the

duct of such special investigations conduct of such special investigaas may be ordered by the Con- tions as may be ordered by the

ference .

Conference or by the Governing

Body. 2. It will prepare the agenda for 2. Subject to such directions the meetings of the Conference. as the Governing Body may
give, the Office will-

(a) prepare the documents on the various items of the agenda for the meetings of the Conference ;

(b) accord to Governments at their request all appropriate assistance within its power in connection with the framing of laws and regulations on the basis of the decisions of the Conference and the improvement of administrative prac-

tices and systems of inspection ;

Publications.

3. It will carry out the duties (c) carry out the duties required

required of it by the provisions
of this Part of the present Treaty in connection with international

of it by the provisions of this Constitution in connection with the effective observance

disputes .

of Conventions ;

4. It will edit and publish in (d) edit and issue, in such lan-

French and English, and in such

guages as the Governing Body

other languages as the Governing

may think desirable, publi-

Body may think desirable, a

cations dealing with problems

periodical paper dealing with problems of industry and employment

of industry and employment of international interest .

of international interest.

5. Generally , in addition to the 3. Generally , it shall have such functions set out in this Article, other powers and duties as may it shall have such other powers be assigned to it by the Conand duties as may be assigned to ference or by the Governing Body. it by the Conference.

Article 11

Article 11

The Government Departments The Government departments of any of the Members which of any of the Members which deal with questions of industry deal with questions of industry

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG . 2 , 1948 3509

Conférence en vue de la conclu- en vue de la conclusion des con-

sion des conventions interna- ventions internationales, ainsi que

tionales , ainsi que l'exécution de l'exécution de toutes enquêtes

toutes enquêtes spéciales crites par la Conférence.

pres- spéciales prescrites par la Conférence ou par le Conseil d'administration.

2. Il sera chargé de préparer 2. Sous réserve des directives

l'ordre du jour des sessions de la que pourrait lui donner le Conseil

Conférence .

d'administration , le Bureau:

a) préparera la documentation sur les divers points à l'ordre du jour des sessions de la Confé-

rence ;
b) fournira aux gouvernements, sur leur demande et dans la

mesure de ses moyens, toute aide appropriée pour l'élaboration de la législation sur la base des décisions de la Conférence, ainsi que pour l'amélioration de la pratique administrative et des systèmes d'inspection ;

3. Il s'acquittera, en conformité c) s'acquittera, en conformité des

des stipulations de la présente Partie du présent Traité, des devoirs qui lui incombent en ce qui concerne tous différends inter-

stipulations de la présente Constitution , des devoirs qui lui incombent en ce qui concerne l'observation effective des

nationaux .

conventions ;

4. Il rédigera et publiera en d) rédigera et fera paraître dans

français, en anglais et dans telle autre langue que le Conseil d'ad-

telles langues que le Conseil d'administration jugera appro-

ministration jugera convenable,

priées des publications traitant

un bulletin périodique consacré à l'étude des questions concernant

des questions concernant l'industrie et le travail qui pré-

l'industrie et le travail et présen-

sentent un intérêt international.

tant un intérêt international.

5. D'une manière générale il 3. D'une manière générale , il aura, en sus des fonctions indi- aura tous autres pouvoirs et fonc-

quées au présent article, tous au- tions que la Conférence ou le

tres pouvoirs et fonctions que la Conseil d'administration jugeront

Conférence jugera à propos de lui à propos de lui attribuer . attribuer .

Article 11

Article 11

Les ministères des Membres qui Les ministères des Membres qui s'occupent des questions ouvrières s'occupent des questions ouvrières pourront communiquer directe- pourront communiquer directe-

3510

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

and employment may communi- and employment may communicate directly with the Director cate directly with the Directorthrough the Representative of General through the representative their Government on the Govern- of their Government on the Gov-

ing Body of the International erning Body of the International

Labour Office, or failing any such Labour Office or, failing any

Representative , through such such representative , through such

other qualified official as the other qualified official as the

Government may nominate for Government may nominate for

the purpose.

the purpose.

Article 12

Article 12

Cooperation with other organizations.

The International Labour Office

1. The International Labour Or-

shall be entitled to the assistance ganisation shall co-operate within

of the Secretary-General of the the terms of this Constitution with

League of Nations in any matter any general international organisa-

in which it can be given.

tion entrusted with the co-ordina-

tion of the activities of public international organisations having

specialised responsibilities and with public international organisations having specialised responsibilities in related fields .

2. The International Labour Or-
ganisation may make appropriate arrangements for the representatives of public international organisations to participate without vote in its deliberations .

3. The International Labour Organisation may make suitable arrangements for such consultation as it may think desirable with recognised non-governmental international organisations, including international organisations of employers, workers, agriculturists
and co-operators .

Article 13

Article 18

Financial and bud- 1. The International Labour Or- 1. The International Labour Or-
getary arrangements. ganisation may make such finan- ganisation may make such finan-

cial and budgetary arrangements cial and budgetary arrangements

with the United Nations as may with the United Nations as may

appear appropriate.

appear appropriate.

2. Pending the conclusion of 2. Pending the conclusion of

such arrangements or if at any such arrangements or if at any

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION --AUG . 2 , 1948 3511

ment avec le Directeur par l'inter- ment avec le Directeur général médiaire du représentant de leur par l'intermédiaire du représentant gouvernement au Conseil d'ad- de leur gouvernement au Conseil ministration du Bureau inter- d'administration du Bureau international du Travail, ou , à défaut national du Travail, ou , à défaut de ce représentant, par l'inter- de ce représentant, par l'intermédiaire de tel autre fonction- médiaire de tel autre fonctionnaire
naire dûment qualifié et désigné dûment qualifié et désigné à cet à cet effet par le gouvernement effet par le gouvernement intéressé. intéressé .

Article 12

Article 12

Le Bureau international du 1. L'Organisation. internatio-

Travail pourra demander le con- nale du Travail collaborera , dans le

cours du Secrétaire général de la cadre de la présente Constitution, Société des Nations pour toutes avec toute organisation internaquestions à l'occasion desquelles tionale générale chargée de coorce concours pourra être donné. donner les activités d'organisa-

tions de droit international public ayant des tâches spécialisées et avec les organisations de droit in-

ternational public ayant des tâches spécialisées dans des domaines con-

nexes . 2. L'Organisation

internatio-

nale du Travail pourra prendre des dispositions appropriées pour que les représentants des organisations de droit international public par-

ticipent, sans droit de vote, à ses délibérations .
3. L'Organisation internationale du Travail pourra prendre
toutes dispositions utiles pour consulter, selon qu'il lui paraîtra désirable , des organisations internationales non gouvernementales reconnues, y compris des organisations internationales d'emplo-

yeurs , de travailleurs , d'agriculteurs et de coopérateurs .

Article 18

Article 13

1. L'Organisation internatio- 1. L'Organisation internatio-

nale du Travail peut conclure avec nale du Travail peut conclure avec les Nations Unies tels arrange- les Nations Unies tels arrange-

ments financiers et budgétaires ments financiers et budgétaires

qui paraîtraient appropriés.

qui paraîtraient appropriés .

2. En attendant la conclusion 2. En attendant la conclusion

de tels arrangements , ou si , à un de tels arrangements , ou si , à un

3512 Expenses.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

time no such arrangements are in time no such arrangements are in

force-

force-

(a ) each of the Members will (a ) each of the Members will pay

pay the travelling and subsistence

the travelling and subsistence

expenses of its Delegates and their

expenses of its delegates and

advisers and of its Representatives

their advisers and of its repre-

attending the meetings of the Conference or the Governing Body, as the case may be ;

sentatives attending the meetings of the Conference or the Governing Body, as the case may be ;

(b) all the other expenses of the (b ) all other expenses of the Inter-

International Labour Office and of

national Labour Office and of

the meetings of the Conference or Governing Body shall be paid by the Director of the International Labour Office out of the general funds of the International Labour Organisation ;

the meetings of the Conference or Governing Body shall be paid by the Director-General of the International Labour Office out of the general funds of the International Labour Organisation ;

(c) the arrangements for the (c ) the arrangements for the ap-

approval, allocation and collection

proval, allocation and collec-

of the budget of the International Labour Organisation shall be determined by the Conference by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast by the delegates present , and shall provide for the approval of the budget and of the arrangements for the allocation of expenses among the Members of the Organisation by a committee of
Government representatives .

tion of the budget of the International Labour Organisation shall be determined by the Conference by a twothirds majority of the votes cast by the delegates present, and shall provide for the approval of the budget and of the arrangements for the allo-
cation of expenses among the Members of the Organisation by a committee of Govern-

ment representatives.

3. The expenses of the Inter- 3. The expenses of the Internanational Labour Organisation shall tional Labour Organisation shall be borne by the Members in ac- be borne by the Members in accordance with the arrangements in cordance with the arrangements force in virtue of paragraph 1 or in force in virtue of paragraph 1 paragraph 2 (c) of this Article . or paragraph 2 ( c ) of this Article .

4. A Member of the Organisa- 4. A Member of the Organisation which is in arrears in the tion which is in arrears in the payment of its financial contribu- payment of its financial contribution to the Organisation shall have tion to the Organisation shall have no vote in the Conference, in the no vote in the Conference, in the Governing Body, in any commit- Governing Body, in any comtee, or in the elections of members mittee, or in the elections of of the Governing Body, if the members of the Governing Body,

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION- AUG . 2, 1948 3513

moment quelconque , il n'en est moment quelconque, il n'en est

pas qui soient en vigueur:

pas qui soient en vigueur:

a) chacun des Membres paiera a) chacun des Membres paiera les

les frais de voyage et de séjour de ses délégués et de leurs conseillers

frais de voyage et de séjour de ses délégués et de leurs con-

techniques , ainsi que de ses représentants prenant part aux sessions de la Conférence et du Conseil

seillers techniques , ainsi que de ses représentants prenant part aux sessions de la Confé-

d'administration selon les cas ;

rence et du Conseil d'adminis-

tration selon les cas ;

b) tous autres frais du Bureau b) tous autres frais du Bureau in-

international du Travail, des ses-

ternational du Travail, des

sions de la Conférence ou de celles

sessions de la Conférence ou

du Conseil d'administration seront

de celles du Conseil d'adminis-

payés par le Directeur du Bureau international du Travail sur le budget général de l'Organisation internationale du Travail ;

tration seront payés par le Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail sur le
budget général de l'Organisation internationale du Travail ;

c) les dispositions relatives à c) les dispositions relatives à l'ap-

l'approbation du budget de l'Or- probation du budget de l'Or-

ganisation internationale du Tra- ganisation internationale du

vail, ainsi qu'à l'assiette et au recouvrement des contributions ,

Travail, ainsi qu'à l'assiette et au recouvrement des contribu-

seront arrêtées par la Conférence à la majorité des deux tiers des suffrages émis par les délégués présents et stipuleront que le budget et les arrangements concernant la répartition des dépenses entre les Membres de l'Organisation seront approuvés par une commission de représentants gouvernementaux .

tions , seront arrêtées par la Conférence à la majorité des deux tiers des suffrages émis par les délégués présents et stipuleront que le budget et les arrangements concernant la répartition des dépenses entre les Membres de l'Organisation seront approuvés par une commission de représentants gouvernementaux.

3. Les frais de l'Organisation 3. Les frais de l'Organisation internationale du Travail seront à internationale du Travail seront

la charge des Membres , conformé à la charge des Membres, conment aux arrangements en vigueur formément aux arrangements en en vertu du paragraphe 1 ou du vigueur en vertu du paragraphe 1 paragraphe 2 , c ) du présent article. ou du paragraphe 2, c ) du présent
article. 4. Un Membre de l'Organisa- 4. Un Membre de l'Organisation en retard dans le paiement tion en retard dans le paiement de de sa contribution aux dépenses sa contribution aux dépenses de de l'Organisation ne peut parti- l'Organisation ne peut participer ciper au vote de la Conférence, au vote à la Conférence, au Conau Conseil d'administration ou à seil d'administration ou à toute

toute commission, ou aux élections commission, ou aux élections de de membres du Conseil d'admi- membres du Conseil d'administra-

3514

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

amount of its arrears equals or if the amount of its arrears equals exceeds the amount of the con- or exceeds the amount of the con-

tributions due from it for the pre- tributions due from it for the pre-

ceding two full years . The Con- ceding two full years : Provided

ference may, nevertheless , permit that the Conference may by a

such a Member to vote if it is two-thirds majority of the votes satisfied that the failure to pay is cast by the delegates present per-

due to conditions beyond the con- mit such a Member to vote if it

trol of the Member.

is satisfied that the failure to pay

is due to conditions beyond the control of the Member.

Ante, p. 3496.

5. The Director of the Interna- 5. The Director-General of the tional Labour Office shall be re- International Labour Office shall

sponsible to the Governing Body be responsible to the Governing

for the proper expenditure of the Body for the proper expenditure funds of the International Labour of the funds of the International

Organisation .

Labour Organisation.

CHAPTER II- PROCEDURE

CHAPTER II- PROCEDURE

Article 14

Article 14

The agenda for all meetings of 1. The agenda for all meetings the Conference will be settled by of the Conference will be settled

the Governing Body, who shall by the Governing Body, which

consider any suggestion as to the shall consider any suggestion as

agenda that may be made by the to the agenda that may be made

Government of any of the Mem- by the Government of any of the

bers or by any representative Members or by any representative

organisation recognised for the organisation recognised for the

purpose of Article 3.

purpose of Article 3, or by any

public international organisation.

2. The Governing Body shall make rules to ensure thorough
technical preparation and adequate consultation of the Members
primarily concerned , by means of a preparatory Conference or otherwise, prior to the adoption of a Convention or Recommendation by the Conference .

Article 15 .

Article 15

Director-General as The Director shall act as the 1. The Director-General shall Secretary-General.
Secretary of the Conference, and act as the Secretary-General of the shall transmit the agenda so as to Conference, and shall transmit reach the Members four months the agenda so as to reach the
before the meeting of the Confer- Members four months before the
ence, and, through them, the non- meeting of the Conference , and,

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION AUG . 2 , 1948 3515

nistration, si le montant de ses tion, si le montant de ses arriérés

arriérés est égal ou supérieur à la est égal ou supérieur à la contribu-

contribution due par lui pour les tion due par lui pour les deux

deux années complètes écoulées . années complètes écoulées . La La Conférence peut néanmoins Conférence peut néanmoins par autoriser ce Membre à participer un vote à la majorité des deux

au vote si elle constate que le tiers des suffrages émis par les manquement est dû à des circon- délégués présents autoriser ce

stances indépendantes de sa vo- Membre à participer au vote si

lonté .

elle constate que le manquement

est dû à des circonstances indépen-

dantes de sa volonté.

5. Le Directeur du Bureau in- 5. Le Directeur général du

ternational du Travail est re- Bureau international du Travail

sponsable vis-à-vis du Conseil est responsable vis-à-vis du Cond'administration pour l'emploi des seil d'administration pour l'emploi

fonds de l'Organisation interna- des fonds de l'Organisation inter-

tionale du Travail.

nationale du Travail.

CHAPITRE II.- FONCTIONNEMENT CHAPITRE II. -FONCTIONNEMENT

Article 14

Article 14

Le Conseil d'administration 1. Le Conseil d'administration

établira l'ordre du jour des sessions établira l'ordre du jour des sessions

de la Conférence après avoir de la Conférence après avoir examiné toutes propositions faites examiné toutes propositions faites par le gouvernement d'un des par le gouvernement d'un des Membres ou par toute autre Membres , par tout organisation

organisation visée à l'article 3 au représentative visée à l'article 3 ,

sujet des matières à inscrire à cet ou par toute organisation de droit.

ordre du jour .

international public, au sujet des

matières à inscrire à cet ordre du

jour. 2. Le Conseil d'administration
établira des règles pour assurer

une sérieuse préparation technique et une consultation appropriée

des Membres principalement

intéressés , par une conférence

préparatoire technique ou par tout autre moyen , avant l'adoption d'une convention ou d'une recom-

mandation par la Conférence .

Article 15

Article 15

Le Directeur remplira les fonc- 1. Le Directeur général remtions de Secrétaire de la Con- plira les fonctions de Secrétaire férence, et devra faire parvenir général de la Conférence , et devra l'ordre du jour de chaque session, faire parvenir l'ordre du jour de quatre mois avant l'ouverture de chaque session, quatre mois avant cette session, à chacun des Mem- l'ouverture de cette session , à
68706-52- PT. III- 58

3516

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Government Delegates when ap- through them, the non-Govern-

pointed.

ment delegates when appointed.

2. The reports on each item of the agenda shall be despatched so as to reach the Members in time to permit adequate consideration before the meeting of the Conference . The Governing Body shall make rules for the application of this provision.

Article 16

Article 16

Objections to inclusion of item in agenda.

1. Any of the Governments of 1. Any of the Governments of

the Members may formally object the Members may formally object

to the inclusion of any item or to the inclusion of any item or

items in the agenda. The grounds items in the agenda. The grounds

for such objection shall be set for such objection shall be set forth in a reasoned statement forth in a statement addressed to

addressed to the Director, who the Director-General who shall shall circulate it to all the Mem- circulate it to all the Members of

bers of the Permanent Organisa- the Organisation.

tion .

2. Items to which such objec- 2. Items to which such objection has been made shall not, tion has been made shall not, how-

however, be excluded from the ever, be excluded from the agenda,

agenda, if at the Conference a if at the Conference a majority of

majority of two thirds of the votes two thirds of the votes cast by the

cast by the Delegates present is in delegates present is in favour of

favour of considering them.

considering them.

3. If the Conference decides 3. If the Conference decides

(otherwise than under the pre- (otherwise than under the pre-

ceding paragraph) by two thirds ceding paragraph) by two thirds

of the votes cast by the Delegates of the votes cast by the delegates

present that any subject shall be present that any subject shall be

considered by the Conference , considered by the Conference,

that subject shall be included in that subject shall be included in

the agenda for the following meet- the agenda for the following meet-

ing.

Article 17

ing.

Article 17

President and VicePresidents .

1. The Conference shall regulate its own procedure, shall elect its own President, and may ap-

1. The Conference shall elect a President and three Vice-Presidents. One of the Vice-Presidents

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG . 2, 1948 3517

bres, et, par l'intermédiaire de chacun des Membres , et , par ceux-ci , aux délégués non gouver- l'intermédiaire de ceux-ci , aux

nementaux, lorsque ces derniers délégués non gouvernementaux,

auront été désignés .

lorsque ces derniers auront été

désignés .

2. Les rapports sur chacun des

points à l'ordre du jour seront

transmis de façon à atteindre les Membres à temps pour leur per-

mettre de procéder à un examen approprié de ces rapports avant la Conférence . Le Conseil d'administration formulera les règles

faisant porter effet à cette disposition .

Article 16

Article 16

1. Chacun des gouvernements 1. Chacun des gouvernements des Membres aura le droit de des Membres aura le droit de

contester l'inscription , à l'ordre contester l'inscription , à l'ordre du jour de la session , de l'un ou du jour de la session, de l'un ou plusieurs des sujets prévus . Les plusieurs des sujets prévus . Les motifs justifiant cette opposition motifs justifiant cette opposition devront être exposés dans un mé- devront être exposés dans un moire explicatif adressé au Direc- mémoire adressé au Directeur

teur , lequel devra le communiquer général , lequel devra le communi-

aux Membres de l'Organisation quer aux Membres de l'Organisa-

permanente .

tion

2. Les sujets auxquels il aura 2. Les sujets auxquels il aura

été fait opposition resteront néan- été fait opposition resteront néan-

moins inclus à l'ordre du jour si la moins inclus à l'ordre du jour si Conférence en décide ainsi à la la Conférence en décide ainsi à

majorité des deux tiers des suffrages la majorité des deux tiers des

exprimés par les délégués présents . suffrages exprimés par les délégués présents .

3. Toute question au sujet de 3. Toute question au sujet de

laquelle la Conférence décide, à laquelle la Conférence décide, à

la même majorité des deux tiers, la même majorité des deux tiers ,

qu'elle doit être examinée (autre- qu'elle doit être examinée (autre-

ment que prévu dans l'alinéa ment que prévu dans l'alinéa

précédent ) sera portée à l'ordre précédent ) sera portée à l'ordre du jour de la session suivante. du jour de la session suivante.

Article 17

Article 17

1. La Conférence formulera les 1. La Conférence élira un pré-

règles de son fonctionnement ; elle sident

trois vice-présidents.

élira son Président ; elle pourra Les trois vice-présidents seront

3518

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

point committees to consider and shall be a Government delegate ,

report on any matter.

one an employers ' delegate and one

a workers' delegate . The Conference shall regulate its own pro-

cedure and may appoint committees to consider and report on any matter.

Decision by majority vote.
Ante, p. 3510.

2. Except as otherwise expressly 2. Except as otherwise express-

provided in this Part of the present ly provided in this Constitution or

Treaty, all matters shall be de- by the terms of any Convention

cided by a simple majority of the or other instrument conferring votes cast by the Delegates powers on the Conference or of

present.

the financial and budgetary ar-

rangements adopted in virtue of

Article 13 , all matters shall be

decided by a simple majority of

the votes cast by the delegates

present .

3. The voting is void unless the 3. The voting is void unless the total number of votes cast is equal total number of votes cast is equal to half the number of the Dele- to half the number of the delegates gates attending the Conference . attending the Conference.

Technical experts.

Article 18

Article 18

The Conference may add to any The Conference may add to any

committees which it appoints tech- committees which it appoints tech-

nical experts , who shall be asses- nical experts without power to

sors without power to vote.

vote .

Article 19

Article 19

Adoption of pro- 1. When the Conference has 1. When the Conference has

posals.

Post, p. 3534.

decided on the adoption of pro- decided on the adoption of pro-

posals with regard to an item in posals with regard to an item in

the agenda , it will rest with the the agenda , it will rest with the Conference to determine whether Conference to determine whether

these proposals should take the these proposals should take the

form: (a) of a recommendation to form: (a) of an international Con-

be submitted to the Members for vention , or (b) of a Recommendaconsideration with a view to effect tion to meet circumstances where

being given to it by national legis- the subject , or aspect of it , dealt

lation or otherwise , or (b ) of a with is not considered suitable or

draft international convention for appropriate at that time for a

ratification by the Members .

Convention .

2. In either case a majority of 2. In either case a majority of two thirds of the votes cast by the two thirds of the votes cast by the

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG . 2, 1948 3519

nommer des commissions chargées respectivement un délégué gou-

de présenter des rapports sur vernemental , un délégué des em-

toutes questions qu'elle estimera ployeurs et un délégué des tra-

devoir mettre à l'étude.

vailleurs . La Conférence formu-

lera les règles de son fonctionnement ; elle pourra nommer des commissions chargées de présenter

des rapports sur toutes questions qu'elle estimera devoir mettre à l'étude .

2. La simple majorité des suf- 2. La simple majorité des suffrages exprimés par les membres frages exprimés par les membres présents à la Conférence décidera présents de la Conférence décidera dans tous les cas où une majorité dans tous les cas où une maplus forte n'est pas spécialement jorité plus forte n'est pas spécialeprévue par d'autres articles de la ment prévue par d'autres articles présente Partie du présent Traité. de la présente Constitution ou par
toute convention ou autre instrument conférant des pouvoirs à la Conférence ou par les arrange-

ments financiers ou budgétaires adoptés en vertu de l'article 13 . 3. Aucun vote n'est acquis si le 3. Aucun vote n'est acquis si le nombre des suffrages exprimés nombre des suffrages exprimés est est inférieur à la moitié du nombre inférieur à la moitié du nombre

des délégués présents à la session . des délégués présents à la session .

Article 18

Article 18

La Conférence pourra adjoindre La Conférence pourra adjoindre
aux commissions qu'elle constitue aux commissions qu'elle constitue des conseillers techniques qui au- des conseillers techniques qui ront voix consultative mais non n'auront pas voix délibérative . délibérative.

Article 19

Article 19

1. Si la Conférence se prononce 1. Si la Conférence se prononce

pour l'adoption de propositions pour l'adoption de propositions relatives à un objet à l'ordre du relatives à un objet à l'ordre du jour, elle aura à déterminer si ces jour, elle aura à déterminer si ces propositions devront prendre la propositions devront prendre la forme: a) d'une « recommenda- forme: a) d'une convention intertion>> à soumettre à l'examen des nationale ; b) ou bien d'une recomMembres, en vue de lui faire porter mandation, lorsque l'objet traité effet sous forme de loi nationale ou un de ses aspects ne se prête
ou autrement ; b) ou bien d'un pas à l'adoption immédiate d'une projet de convention internationale convention. à ratifier par les Membres.

2. Dans les deux cas, pour 2. Dans les deux cas, pour qu'une recommandation ou qu'un qu'une convention ou qu'une re-

3520

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Delegates present shall be neces- delegates present shall be necessary on the final vote for the adop- sary on the final vote for the adoption of the recommendation or tion of the Convention or Recom-

draft convention , as the case may mendation, as the case may be, by

be, by the Conference .

the Conference .

3. In framing any recommenda- 3. In framing any Convention

tion or draft convention of general or Recommendation of general

application the Conference shall application the Conference shall

have due regard to those countries have due regard to those countries

in which climatic conditions, the in which climatic conditions , the

imperfect development of indus- imperfect development of indus-

trial organisation , or other special trial organisation, or other special circumstances make the industrial circumstances make the industrial

conditions substantially different conditions substantially different

and shall suggest the modifica- and shall suggest the modifica-

tions, if any, which it considers tions , if any, which it considers may

may be required to meet the case be required to meet the case of

of such countries.

such countries .

Convention,

4. A copy of the recommenda- 4. Two copies of the Convention or draft convention shall be tion or Recommendation shall be
authenticated by the signature of authenticated by the signatures of the President of the Conference the President of the Conference and of the Director and shall be and of the Director-General . Of

deposited with the Secretary-Gen- these copies one shall be deposited eral of the League of Nations . in the archives of the InterThe Secretary-General will com- national Labour Office and the municate a certified copy of the other with the Secretary-General recommendation or draft con- of the United Nations . The vention to each of the Members . Director-General will communi-

cate a certified copy of the Convention or Recommendation to each of the Members . 5. Each of the Members under- 5. In the case of a Convention-

takes that it will, within the (a) the Convention will be com-

period of one year at most from

municated to all Members for

the closing of the session of the

ratification ;

Conference, or if it is impossible (b) each of the Members under-

owing to exceptional circum-

takes that it will, within the

stances to do so within the period of one year, then at the earliest

period of one year at most from the closing of the session

practicable moment and in no

of the Conference, or if it is

case later than eighteen months from the closing of the session of

impossible owing to exceptional circumstances to do so

the Conference, bring the recommendation or draft convention before the authority or authorities

within the period of one year, then at the earliest practicable moment and in no case later

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION- AUG. 2, 1948 3521

projet de convention soient commandation soient adoptées au

adoptés au vote final par la Confé- vote final par la Conférence, une rence, une majorité des deux tiers majorité des deux tiers des voix

des voix des délégués présents est des délégués présents est requise.

requise . 3. En formant une recomman-

3. En formant une convention

dation ou un projet de convention ou une recommandation d'une

d'une application générale, la application générale, la Conférence Conférence devra avoir égard aux devra avoir égard aux pays dans pays dans lesquels le climat, lesquels le climat, le développele développement incomplet de ment incomplet de l'organisation l'organisation industrielle ou d'au- industrielle ou d'autres circon-

tres circonstances particulières stances particulières rendent les rendent les conditions de l'indus- conditions de l'industrie essentielle-

trie essentiellement différentes , et ment différentes, et elle aura à elle aura à suggérer telles modifica- suggérer telles modifications qu'elle tions qu'elle considérerait comme considérerait comme pouvant être pouvant être nécessaires pour ré- nécessaires pour répondre aux pondre aux conditions propres à conditions propres à ces pays. ces pays.

4. Un exemplaire de la recom- 4. Deux exemplaires de la con-

mandation ou du projet de con- vention ou de la recommandation vention sera signé par le Président seront signés par le Président de la de la Conférence et le Directeur Conférence et par le Directeur géet sera déposé entre les mains du néral . L'un de ces exemplaires

Secrétaire général de la Société des sera déposé aux archives du BuNations. Celui -ci communiquera reau international du Travail et une copie certifiée conforme de la l'autre entre les mains du Secrérecommandation ou du projet de taire général des Nations Unies . convention à chacun des Membres . Le Directeur général communi-
quera une copie certifiée conforme de la convention ou de la recom-

mandation à chacun des Membres.

5. Chacun des Membres s'en- 5. S'il s'agit d'une convention : gage à soumettre dans le délai a ) la convention sera communi-

d'un an à partir de la clôture de la session de la Conférence (ou , si par

quée à tous les Membres en vue de sa ratification par ceux-ci ;

suite de circonstances exception- b) chacun des Membres s'engage

nelles , il est impossible de procéder

à soumettre dans le délai d'un

dans un délai d'un an, dès qu'il

an à partir de la clôture de la

sera possible, mais jamais plus de

session de la Conférence (ou ,

dix-huit mois après la clôture de la session de la Conférence) la recommandation ou le projet de convention à l'autorité ou aux autorités dans la compétence desquelles

si par suite de circonstances exceptionnelles , il est impossible de procéder dans un délai d'un an, dès qu'il sera possible , mais jamais plus de dix-huit mois

rentre la matière, en vue de la après la clôture de la session de

3522

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

within whose competence the matter lies, for the enactment of legislation or other action.
6. In the case of a recommendation , the Members will inform the Secretary-General of the action taken .

than eighteen months from the closing of the session of the Conference , bring the Convention before the authority or authorities within whose competence the matter lies, for the enactment of legislation or other action;

7. In the case of a draft con- (c) Members shall inform the

vention, the Member will , if it

Director-General of the Inter-

obtains the consent of the author-

national Labour Office of the

ity or authorities within whose

measures taken in accordance

competence the matter lies, communicate the formal ratification

with this Article to bring the Convention before the said

of the convention to the Secretary-

competent authority or au-

General and will take such action

thorities, with particulars of

as may be necessary to make effec-

the authority or authorities

tive the provisions of such convention .

regarded as competent, and of the action taken by them ;

8. If on a recommendation no (d) if the Member obtains the

legislative or other action is taken to make a recommendation effec-

consent of the authority or authorities within whose com-

tive, or if the draft convention fails

petence the matter lies, it will

to obtain the consent of the

communicate the formal rati-

authority or authorities within

fication of the Convention to

whose competence the matter lies ,

the Director-General and will

no further obligation shall rest upon the Member.

take such action as may be necessary to make effective

the provisions of such Convention ;

(e ) if the Member does not obtain the consent of the authority or authorities within whose

competence the matter lies, no further obligation shall rest upon the Member except that it shall report to the DirectorGeneral of the International Labour Office, at appropriate

intervals as requested by the Governing Body, the position of its law and practice in regard to the matters dealt

with in the Convention , showing the extent to which effect

has been given, or is proposed to be given, to any of the provisions of the Convention by

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3523

transformer en loi ou de prendre des mesures d'un autre ordre.
6. S'il s'agit d'une recommandation , les Membres informeront le Secrétaire général des mesures prises .

la Conférence) , la convention à l'autorité ou aux autorités dans la compétence desquelles rentre la matière, en vue de la transformer en loi ou de prendre des mesures d'un autre ordre,

7. S'il s'agit d'un projet de con- c ) les Membres informeront le

vention, le Membre qui aura obtenu le consentement de l'autorité ou des autorités compétentes com-

Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail des mesures prises , en vertu du

muniquera sa ratification formelle de la convention au Secrétaire

présent article, pour soumettre la convention à l'autorité ou

général et prendra telles mesures qui seront nécessaires pour rendre effectives les dispositions de ladite convention .

aux autorités compétentes , en lui communiquant tous renseignements sur l'autorité ou les autorités considérées comme

compétentes et sur les décisions

de celles- ci ;

8. Si une recommandation n'est d) le Membre qui aura obtenu le

pas suivie d'un acte législatif ou d'autres mesures de nature à ren-

consentement de l'autorité ou des autorités compétentes com-

dre effective cette recommanda-

muniquera sa ratification for-

tion ou bien si un projet de con-

melle de la convention du Di-

vention ne rencontre pas l'assentiment de l'autorité ou des autorités

recteur général et prendra telles mesures qui seront nécessaires

dans la compétence desquelles rentre la matière, le Membre ne sera soumis à aucune autre obli-

pour rendre effectives les dispositions de ladite convention ;

gation.

e) si une convention n'obtient pas l'assentiment de l'autorité ou

des autorités dans la compé-

tence desquelles rentre la matière, le Membre ne sera soumis à aucune autre obligation , si ce n'est qu'il devra faire rapport au Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail , à des

périodes appropriées , selon ce que décidera le Conseil d'administration, sur l'état de sa législation et sur sa pratique concernant la question qui fait l'objet de la convention , en précisant dans quelle mesure l'on a donné suite ou l'on se propose de donner suite à toute

3524

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62. STAT,
legislation, administrative action, collective agreement or otherwise and stating the difficulties which prevent or delay the ratification of such Convention .

Recommendation.

6. In the case of a Recommendation-
(a) the Recommendation will be communicated to all Members for their consideration with a view to effect being given to it by national legislation or otherwise ;
(b) each of the Members undertakes that it will, within a period of one year at most from the closing of the session of the Conference, or if it is impossible owing to exceptional circumstances to do so within the period of one year, then at the earliest practicable moment and in no case later than eighteen months after the closing of the Conference , bring the Recommendation before the authority or authorities within whose competence the matter lies for the enactment of legislation or other action ;
(c) the Members shall inform the Director-General of the International Labour Office of the measures taken in accordance with this article to bring the Recommendation before the said competent authority or authorities with particulars of the authority or authorities regarded as competent, and of the action taken by them ;
(d) apart from bringing the Recommendation before the said

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3525
disposition de la convention par voie législative, par voie administrative, par voie de contrats collectifs ou par toute autre voie, et en exposant quelles difficultés empêchent ou retardent le ratification d'une telle convention.
6. S'il s'agit d'une recommandation:
a) la recommandation sera communiquée à tous les Membres pour examen , en vue de lui faire porter effet sous forme de loi nationale ou autrement ;
b) chacun des Membres s'engage à soumettre dans le délai d'un an à partir de la clôture de la session de la Conférence (ou, si par suite de circonstances exceptionnelles, il est impossible de procéder dans le délai d'un an, dès qu'il sera possible , mais jamais plus de dix-huit mois après la clôture de la session de la Conférence) , la recommandation à l'autorité ou aux autorités dans la compétence desquelles rentre la matière, en vue de la transformer en loi ou de prendre des mesures d'un autre ordre ;
c) les Membres informeront le Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail des mesures prises , en vertu du présent article, pour soumettre la recommandation à l'autorité ou aux autorités compétentes, en lui communiquant tous renseignements sur l'autorité ou les autorités considérées comme compétentes et sur les décisions de celles-ci ;
d) sauf l'obligation de soumettre la recommandation à l'autorité

3526

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

competent authority or authorities , no further obligation shall rest upon the Members , except that they shall report to the Director-General of the International La-

bour Office, at appropriate intervals as requested by the Governing Body, the position of the law and practice in their country in regard to the matters dealt with in the Recommendation , showing the extent to which effect has been

given , or is proposed to be given, to the provisions of the Recommendation and such
modifications of these provisions as it has been found

or may be found necessary to make in adopting or applying them . 9. In the case of a federal State, 7. In the case of a federal State, the power of which to enter into the following provisions shall ap-

conventions on labour matters is ply:

siunbtjhecetditsocrleitmiotnatoiofntsh, aitt Gshoavlelrbne- (a) in respect of Conventions and

Recommendations which the

ment to treat a draft convention

federal Government regards as

to which such limitations apply

appropriate under its consti-

as a recommendation only, and

tutional system for federal

the provisions of this Article with respect to recommendations shall

action, the obligations of the federal State shall be the

apply in such case .

same as those of Members

which are not federal States ;

(b) in respect of Conventions and Recommendations which the federal Government regards as appropriate under its constitutional system , in whole or in part , for action by the constituent States , provinces , or cantons rather than for federal action, the federal Government shall-
(i) make, in accordance with its Constitution and the Consti-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG . 2, 1948 3527

ou aux autorités compétentes , les Membres ne seront soumis à

aucune autre obligation , si ce n'est qu'ils devront faire rap-

port au Directeur général du Bureau international du

Travail, à des périodes ap-

propriées, selon ce que décidera le Conseil d'administration, sur

l'état de leur législation et sur

leur pratique concernant la

question qui fait l'objet de la recommandation en précisant

dans quelle mesure l'on a donné suite ou l'on se propose de donner suite à toutes dispositions de la recommandation et

en indiquant les modifications de ces dispositions qui sem-

blent ou pourront sembler néces-

9. Dans le cas où il s'agit d'un

saires pour leur permettre de l'adopter ou de l'appliquer. 7 Dans le cas où il s'agit d'un

Etat fédératif dont le pouvoir Etat fédératif, les dispositions d'adhérer à une convention sur suivantes seront appliquées :

des objets concernant le travail est a) à l'égard des conventions et des
soumis à certaines limitations , le

gouvernement aura le droit de

recommandations pour lesquelles le gouvernement fédéral

considérer un projet de convention

considère que , d'après son sys-

auquel s'appliquent ces limitations tème constitutionnel, une action

comme une simple recommandation et les dispositions du présent

fédérale est appropriée, les obligations de l'Etat fédératif

article en ce qui regarde les recommandations s'appliqueront dans ce cas.

seront les mêmes que celles des Membres qui ne sont pas des

Etats fédératifs ;

b) à l'égard des conventions et des recommandations pour lesquelles le gouvernement fédéral considère que , d'après son système constitutionnel, une action. de la part des Etats constituants , des provinces ou des cantons est, sur tous les points Qu sur certains points, plus appropriée qu'une action fédérale, leditgouvernement devra:

i) conclure, en conformité avec sa constitution et les constitu-

3528

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
tutions ofthe States , provinces or cantons concerned , effective arrangements forthe reference of such Conventions and Recommendations not later than eighteen months from the closing of the session of the Conference to the appropriate federal , State, provincial or cantonal authorities for the enactment of legislation or other action ;
(ii) arrange, subject to the concurrence of the State , provincial or cantonal Governments concerned , for periodical consultations between the federal and the State , provincial or cantonal authorities with a view to promoting within the federal State co-ordinated action to give effect to the provisions of such Conventions and Recommendations ;
(iii) inform the Director-General of the International Labour Office of the measures taken in accordance with this article to bring such Conventions and Recommendations before the appropriate federal, State, provincial or cantonal authorities with particulars of the authorities regarded as appropriate and of the action taken by them ;
(iv) in respect of each such Convention which it has not ratified, report to theDirectorGeneral of the International

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-- AUG. 2, 1948 3529
tions des Etats constituants, des provinces ou des cantons intéressés , des arrangements effectifs pour que ces conventions ou recommandations soient, au plus tard dans les dix-huit mois suivant la clôture de la session de la Conférence , soumises aux autorités appropriées fédérales , ou à celles des Etats constituants, des provinces ou des cantons en vue d'une action législative ou de toute autre action ;
ii ) prendre des mesures , sous réserve de l'accord des gouvernements des Etats constituants , des provinces ou des cantons intéressés, pour établir des consultations périodiques , entre les autorités fédérales d'une part et les autorités des Etats constituants, des provinces ou des cantons d'autre part, en vue de développer à l'intérieur de l'Etat fédératif une action coordonnée destinée à donner effet aux dispositions de ces conventions et recommandations ;
iii) informer le Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail des mesures prises en vertu du présent article pour soumettre ces conventions et recommandations aux autorités appropriées fédérales , des Etats constituants , des provinces ou des cantons , en lui communiquant tous renseignements sur les autorités considérées comme autorités appropriées et sur les décisions de celles -ci :
iv) au sujet de chacune de ces conventions qu'il n'aura pas ratifiées , faire rapport au Directeur général du Bureau in-

3530

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Labour Office , at appropriate intervals as requested by the Governing Body, the position of the law and practice of the federation and its constituent States, provinces or cantons in regard to the Convention, showing the extent to which effect has been given , or is proposed to be given, to any of the provisions of the Convention by legislation , administrative action , collective agree ment, or otherwise ;

(v) in respect of each such Recommendation , report to the Director-General of the International Labour Office , at appropriate intervals as requested by the Governing Body, the position of the law and practice of the federation and its constituent States, provinces or cantons in regard to the Recommendation, showing the extent to which effect has been given, or is proposed to be given, to the provisions of the Recommendation and such modifi-
cations of these provisions as have been found or may be found necessary in adopting or applying them.

10. The above Article shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following principle :
11. In no case shall any Mem-

8. In no case shall the adoption
of any Convention or Recommendation by the Conference, or the ratification of any Convention

ber be asked or required , as a by any Member, be deemed to

result of the adoption of any rec- affect any law, award , custom or more
ommendation or draft convention agreement which ensures
by the Conference , to lessen the favourable conditions to the work-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3531

ternational du Travail, à des intervalles de temps appro-
priés , selon ce que décidera le Conseil d'administration , sur l'état de la législation et de la pratique de la fédération et des Etats constituants , des provinces ou des cantons concernant la question qui fait l'objet de la convention , en précisant dans quelle mesure il a été donné ou l'on se propose de donner effet aux dispositions de la convention par voie législative, par voie administrative, par voie de contrats collectifs ou par toute autre voie ;

v) au sujet de chacune de ces recommandations , faire rapport au Directeur général du Bureau international du Tra-

vail, à des intervalles de temps

appropriés , selon ce que décidera le Conseil d'adminis-

tration , sur l'état de la législation et de la pratique de la fédération et de ses Etats

constituants , de ses provinces ou de ses cantons concernant

la question qui fait l'objet de la recommandation , en pré-

cisant dans quelle mesure il a été donné ou l'on se propose

de donner effet aux dispositions de la recommandation

et en indiquant quelles modi-

fications de ces dispositions semblent ou pourront sembler nécessaires pour les adopter

10. L'article ci-dessus sera inter-

ou les appliquer. 8. En aucun cas, l'adoption

prété en conformité du principe d'une convention ou d'une recom-

suivant :

mandation par la Conférence , ou

la ratification d'une convention

11. En aucun cas il ne sera par un Membre ne devront être

demandé à aucun des Membres , considérées comme affectant toute

comme conséquence de l'adoption loi , toute sentence, toute coutume par la Conférence d'une recom- ou tout accord qui assurent des

3532

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

protection afforded by its existing ers concerned than those provided.

legislation to the workers con- for in the Convention or Recom-

cerned .

mendation .

Article 20

Article 20

Registration of ratified Conventions.
59 Stat. 1052.

Any convention so ratified shall Any Convention so ratified shall

be registered by the Secretary- be communicated by the Director-

General of the League of Nations , General of the International La-

but shall only be binding upon the bour Office to the Secretary- Gen-

Members which ratify it .

eral of the United Nations for

registration in accordance with

the provisions of Article 102 of

the Charter of the United Nations

but shall only be binding upon the Members which ratify it.

Article 21

Article 21

1. If any convention coming be- 1. If any Convention coming fore the Conference for final con- before the Conference for final

sideration fails to secure the sup- consideration fails to secure the

port of two thirds of the votes support of two thirds of the votes

cast by the Delegates present, it cast by the delegates present , it shall nevertheless be within the shall nevertheless be within the

right of any of the Members of the right of any of the Members of

Permanent Organisation to agree the Organisation to agree to such to such convention among them- Convention among themselves.

selves .

Registration of Conventions otherwise
adopted.

2. Any convention so agreed to 2. Any Convention so agreed to shall be communicated by the shall be communicated by the Governments concerned to the Governments concerned to the

Secretary-General of the League of Director-General of the Interna-

Nations, who shall register it.

tional Labour Office and to the

Secretary-General of the United

Nations for registration in accordance with the provisions of Article 102 of the Charter of the United

59 Stat. 1052.

Nations .

Article 22

Article 22

Annual report by members.

Each of the Members agrees to Each of the Members agrees to make an annual report to the In- make an annual report to the International Labour Office on the ternational Labour Office on the

measures which it has taken to give measures which it has taken to

effect to the provisions of conven- give effect to the provisions of

tions to which it is a party. These Conventions to which it is a party.

reports shall be made in such form These reports shall be made in and shall contain such particulars such form and shall contain such

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION- AUG. 2, 1948 3533

mandation ou d'un projet de con- conditions plus favorables aux

vention, de diminuer la protection travailleurs intéressés que celles

déjà accordée par sa législation prévues par la convention ou la

aux travailleurs dont il s'agit.

recommandation .

Article 20

Article 20

Toute convention ainsi ratifiée Toute convention ainsi ratifiée

sera enregistrée par le Secrétaire sera communiquée par le Direc-

général de la Société des Nations, teur général du Bureau interna-

mais ne liera que les Membres qui tional du Travail au Secrétaire

l'ont ratifiée .

général des Nations Unies , pour

enregistrement conformément aux

dispositions de l'article 102 de la Charte des Nations Unies, mais ne

liera que les Membres qui l'ont ratifiée .

Article 21

Article 21

1. Tout projet qui, dans le 1. Tout projet qui , dans le scrutin final sur l'ensemble, ne scrutin final sur l'ensemble, ne recueillera pas la majorité des recueillera pas la majorité des deux deux tiers des suffrages exprimés tiers des suffrages exprimés par les par les Membres présents peut Membres présents peut faire l'objet faire l'objet d'une convention par- d'une convention particulière entre ticulière entre ceux des Membres ceux des Membres de l'Organisade l'Organisation permanente qui tion qui en ont le désir. en ont le désir.

2. Toute convention particu- 2. Toute convention ainsi con-

lière de cette nature devra être clue sera communiquée par les

communiquée par les gouverne- gouvernements intéressés au Diments intéressés au Secrétaire recteur général du Bureau inter-

général de la Société des Nations , national du Travail et au Secré-

lequel la fera enregistrer.

taire général des Nations Unies,

pour enregistrement conformé-

ment aux dispositions de l'article

102 de la Charte des Nations Unies .

Article 22

Article 22

Chacun des Membres s'engage Chacun des Membres s'engage à

à présenter au Bureau interna- présenter au Bureau international tional du Travail un rapport du Travail un rapport annuel sur annuel sur les mesures prises par les mesures prises par lui pour lui pour mettre à exécution les mettre à exécution les conventions conventions auxquelles il a ad- auxquelles il a adhéré. Ces raphéré. Ces rapports seront rédigés ports seront rédigés sous la forme sous la forme indiquée par le indiquée par le Conseil d'adminis-

3534

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
as the Governing Body may re- particulars as the Governing Body quest. The Director shall lay a may request. summary of these reports before the next meeting of the Conference .

Summary of information and reports.
Ante, p. 3518.
Ante, p. 3496.

Article 23
1. The Director-General shall lay before the next meeting of the Conference a summary of the information and reports communicated to him by Members in pursuance of Articles 19 and 22 .
2. Each Member shall communicate to the representative organisations recognised for the purpose of Article 3 copies of the information and reports communicated to the Director-General in pursuance of Articles 19 and 22 .

Article 23

Article 24

Nonobservance of Conventions; repre-

In the event of any representa-

In the event of any represen-

sentations.

tion being made to the Inter- tation being made to the Inter-

national Labour Office by an national Labour Office by an industrial association of employers industrial association of employers or of workers that any of the or of workers that any of the Members has failed to secure in Members has failed to secure in

any respect the effective observ- any respect the effective observ-

ance within its jurisdiction of any ance within its jurisdiction of any convention to which it is a party, Convention to which it is a party, the Governing Body may com- the Governing Body may communicate this representation to municate this representation to the Government against which it the Government against which it is made, and may invite that is made, and may invite that Government to make such state- Government to make such state-

ment on the subject as it may ment on the subject as it may

think fit .

think fit.

Article 24

Article 25

If no statement is received If no statement is received within a reasonable time from the within a reasonable time from the

Government in question , or if the Government in question , or if the statement when received is not statement when received is not

deemed to be satisfactory by the deemed to be satisfactory by the Governing Body, the latter shall Governing Body, the latter shall

have the right to publish the have the right to publish the

representation and the statement, representation and the statement,

if any, made in reply to it.

if any, made in reply to it.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG . 2, 1948 3535
Conseil d'administration et de- tration et devront contenir les vront contenir les précisions de- précisions demandées par ce dermandées par ce dernier. Le Di- nier. recteur présentera un résumé de ces rapports à la plus prochaine session de la Conférence.
Article 23
1. Le Directeur général présentera à la plus prochaine session de la Conférence un résumé des informations et rapports qui lui auront été communiqués par les Membres en application des articles 19 et 22.
2. Chaque Membre communiquera aux organisations représentatives reconnues telles aux fins de l'article 3 , copie des informations et rapports transmis au Directeur général en application des articles 19 et 22 .

Article 23

Article 24

Toute réclamation adressée au Toute réclamation adressée au Bureau international du Travail Bureau international du Travail

par une organisation profession- par une organisation professionnelle ouvrière ou patronale , et aux nelle des travailleurs ou des emtermes de laquelle l'un quelconque ployeurs , et aux termes de laquelle des Membres n'aurait pas assuré l'un quelconque des Membres d'une manière satisfaisante l'exé- n'aurait pas assuré d'une manière cution d'une convention à laquelle satisfaisante l'exécution d'une conledit Membre a adhéré, pourra vention à laquelle ledit Membre a être transmise par le Conseil adhéré, pourra être transmise par d'administration au gouvernement le Conseil d'administration au

mis en cause et ce gouvernement gouvernement mis en cause et ce

pourra être invité à faire sur la gouvernement pourra être invité

matière telle déclaration qu'il à faire sur la matière telle décla-

jugera convenable.

ration qu'il jugera convenable.

Article 24

Article 25

Si aucune déclaration n'est reçue Si aucune déclaration n'est reçue

du gouvernement mis en cause du gouvernement mis en cause dans un délai raisonable, ou si la dans un délai raisonnable , ou si déclaration reçue ne parait pas la déclaration reçue ne paraît pas satisfaisante au Conseil d'admi- satisfaisante au Conseil d'adminis-

nistration , ce dernier aura le droit tration , ce dernier aura le droit de

de rendre publique la réclamation rendre publique la réclamation

reçue et , le cas échéant , la réponse reçue et , le cas échéant , la réponse

faite.

faite .

3536 : Complaints.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Article 25

Article 26

1. Any of the Members shall 1. Any of the Members shall have the right to file a complaint have the right to file a complaint with the International Labour with the International Labour
Office if it is not satisfied that any Office if it is not satisfied that any other Member is securing the effec- other Member is securing the effective observance of any convention tive observance of any Convention which both have ratified in accord- which both have ratified in accordance with the foregoing Articles . ance with the foregoing Articles.

2. The Governing Body may, if 2. The Governing Body may,

it thinks fit before referring such if it thinks fit, before referring a complaint to a Commission of such a complaint to a Commis-

Enquiry, as hereinafter provided sion of Enquiry, as hereinafter

for, communicate with the Gov- provided for, communicate with

ernment in question in the manner the Government in question in the

described in Article 23.

manner described in Article 24.

Commission of En. quiry.

3. If the Governing Body does

3. If the Governing Body does

not think it necessary to com- not think it necessary to com-

municate the complaint to the municate the complaint to the

Government in question, or if, Government in question, or if, when they have made such com- when it has made such communi-

munication, no statement in reply cation, no statement in reply has has been received within a reason- been received within a reasonable

able time which the Governing time which the Governing Body

Body considers to be satisfactory, considers to be satisfactory, the

the Governing Body may apply for Governing Body may appoint a the appointment of a Commission Commission of Enquiry to con-

of Enquiry to consider the com- sider the complaint and to report

plaint and to report thereon.

thereon .

4. The Governing Body may 4. The Governing Body may adopt the same procedure either adopt the same procedure either of its own motion or on receipt of of its own motion or on receipt of

a complaint from a Delegate to a complaint from a delegate to

the Conference.

the Conference .

5. When any matter arising out 5. When any matter arising out of Articles 24 or 25 is being con- of Articles 25 or 26 is being considered by the Governing Body, sidered by the Governing Body, the Government in question shall, the Government in question shall, if not already represented thereon, if not already represented thereon, be entitled to send a representative be entitled to send a representato take part in the proceedings of tive to take part in the proceedings the Governing Body while the of the Governing Body while the matter is under consideration . matter is under consideration.

Adequate notice of the date on Adequate notice of the date on which the matter will be con- which the matter will be con-

sidered shall be given to the sidered shall be given to the

Government in question.

Government in question.

62.STAT.] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG. 2, 1948 3537

Article 25

Article 26

1. Chacun des Membres pourra 1. Chacun des Membres pourra

déposer une plainte au Bureau déposer une plainte au Bureau international du Travail contre un international du Travail contre

autre Membre qui , à son avis, un autre Membre qui , à son avis , n'assurerait pas d'une manière n'assurerait pas d'une manière satisfaisante l'exécution d'une con- satisfaisante l'exécution d'une con-

vention que l'un et l'autre auraient vention que l'un et l'autre aurai-

ratifiée en vertu des articles pré- ent ratifiée en vertu des articles

cédents .

précédents .

2. Le Conseil d'administration 2. Le Conseil d'administration

peut, s'il le juge à propos , et avant peut, s'il le juge à propos , et de saisir une Commission d'en- avant de saisir une Commission

quête selon la procédure indiquée d'enquête selon la procédure inci-après , se mettre en rapport avec diquée ci-après , se mettre en raple gouvernement mis en cause de port avec le gouvernement mis en la manière indiquée à l'article 23. cause de la manière indiquée à
l'article 24 .

3. Si le Conseil d'administration 3. Si le Conseil d'administra-

ne juge pas nécessaire de com- tion ne juge pas nécessaire de muniquer la plainte au gouverne- communiquer la plainte au gouverment mis en cause, ou si cette nement mis en cause, ou si cette

communication ayant été faite, communication ayant été faite, aucune réponse ayant satisfait le aucune réponse ayant satisfait le Conseil d'administration n'a été Conseil d'administration n'a été

reçue dans un délai raisonnable, recue dans un délai raisonnable, le Conseil pourra provoquer la le Conseil pourra former une Comformation d'une Commission d'en- mission d'enquête qui aura pour

quête qui aura mission d'étudier mission d'étudier la question soule-

la question soulevée et de déposer vée et de déposer un rapport à ce

un rapport à ce sujet .

sujet .

4. La même procédure pourra 4. La même procédure pourra

être engagée par le Conseil, soit être engagée par le Conseil , soit

d'office, soit sur la plainte d'un d'office , soit sur la plainte d'un

délégué à la Conférence .

délégué à la Conférence.

5. Lorsqu'une question soule- 5. Lorsqu'une question soule-

vée par l'application des articles vée par l'application des articles

24 ou 25 viendra devant le Con- 25 ou 26 viendra devant le Conseil

seil d'administration , le gouverne- d'administration , le gouverne-

ment mis en cause, s'il n'a pas ment mis en cause, s'il n'a pas déjà un représentant au sein du déjà un représentant au sein du Conseil d'administration, aura le Conseil d'administration , aura le

droit de désigner un délégué pour droit de désigner un délégué pour prendre part aux délibérations du prendre part aux délibérations du Conseil relatives à cette affaire. Conseil relatives à cette affaire.

La date à laquelle ces discussions La date à laquelle ces discussions doivent avoir lieu sera notifiée en doivent avoir lieu sera notifiée en

temps utile au gouvernement mis temps utile au gouvernement mis

en cause.

en cause .

3538

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Article 26
1. The Commission of Enquiry shall be constituted in accordance with the following provisions:
2. Each of the Members agrees to nominate within six months of the date on which the present Treaty comes into force three persons of industrial experience, of whom one shall be a representative of employers , one a representative of workers, and one a person of independent standing, who shall together form a panel from which the members of the Commission of Enquiry shall be drawn .

3. The qualifications of the persons so nominated shall be subject to scrutiny by the Governing Body, which may by two thirds of the votes cast by the representatives present refuse to accept the nomination of any person whose qualifications do not in its opinion comply with the requirements of the present Article.
4. Upon the application of the Governing Body, the SecretaryGeneral of the League of Nations shall nominate three persons , one from each section of this panel, to constitute the Commission of
Enquiry, and shall designate one of them as the President of the Commission. None of these three persons shall be a person nominated to the panel by any Member directly concerned in the com-
plaint.

Article 27

Article 27

The Members agree that , in The Members agree that, in the the event of the reference of a event of the reference of a comcomplaint to a Commission of plaint to a Commission of Enquiry Enquiry under Article 25, they under Article 26 , they will each, will each, whether directly con- whether directly concerned in the

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3539
Article 26
1. La Commission d'enquête sera constituée de la manière suivante:
2. Chacun des Membres s'engage à désigner , dans les six mois qui suivront la date de mise en vigueur du présent Traité, trois personnes compétentes en matières industrielles , la première représentant les patrons , la
deuxième représentant les travailleurs , et la troisième indépendante des uns et des autres . L'ensemble de ces personnes formera une liste sur laquelle seront choisis les membres de la Commission d'enquête.
3. Le Conseil d'administration aura le droit de vérifier les titres desdites personnes et de refuser, à la majorité des deux tiers des suffrages exprimés par les représentants présents, la nomination de celles dont les titres ne satisferaient pas aux prescriptions du présent article.

4. Sur la demande du Conseil d'administration, le Secrétaire général de la Société des Nations désignera trois personnes respectivement choisies dans chacune des trois catégories de la liste pour constituer la Commission d'enquête et désignera, en outre, l'une de ces trois personnes pour présider ladite Commission. Aucune des trois personnes ainsi
désignées ne pourra relever d'un des Membres directement intéressés à la plainte.

Article 27

Article 27

Dans le cas où une plainte serait Dans le cas où une plainte renvoyée, en vertu de l'article 25, serait renvoyée, en vertu de l'ardevant une Commission d'en- ticle 26 , devant une Commission quête, chacun des Membres, qu'il d'enquête, chacun des Membres, soit ou non directement intéressé à qu'il soit ou non directement
68706-52-PT. III-- 59

3540 Report.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

cerned in the complaint or not, complaint or not, place at the place at the disposal of the Com- disposal of the Commission all the mission all the information in information in their possession their possessoin which bears upon which bears upon the subject the subject matter of the matter of the complaint. complaint.

Article 28

Article 28

1. When the Commission of When the Commission of

Enquiry has fully considered the Enquiry has fully considered the

complaint, it shall prepare a re- complaint, it shall prepare a report

port embodying its findings on all embodying its findings on all

questions of fact relevant to de- questions of fact relevant to de-

termining the issue between the termining the issue between the

parties and containing such recom- parties and containing such recom-

mendations as it may think proper mendations as it may think proper

as to the steps which should be as to the steps which should be

taken to meet the complaint and taken to meet the complaint and

the time within which they should the time within which they should

be taken.

be taken.

2. It shall also indicate in this report the measures, if any, of an economic character against a defaulting Government which it considers to be appropriate, and which it considers other Governments would be justified in adopting.
Article 29

Article 29

1. The Secretary-General of the 1. The Director-General of the

League of Nations shall com- International Labour Office shall

municate the report of the Com- communicate the report of the

mission of Enquiry to each of the Commission of Enquiry to the Governments concerned in the Governing Body and to each of complaint, and shall cause it to the Governments concerned in

be published.

the complaint, and shall cause it

to be published.

2. Each of these Governments 2. Each of these Governments

shall within one month inform the shall within three months inform

Secretary-General of the League the Director-General of the In-

of Nations whether or not it ternational Labour Office whether

accepts the recommendations con- or not it accepts the recommentained in the report of the Com- dations contained in the report of mission ; and if not, whether it the Commission ; and if not,

proposes to refer the complaint whether it proposes to refer the to the Permanent Court of Inter- complaint to the International national Justice of the League of Court of Justice. Nations .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG . 2, 1948 3541

la plainte, s'engage à mettre à la intéressé à la plainte, s'engage à disposition de la Commission toute mettre à la disposition de la Com-

information qui se trouverait en mission toute information qui se

sa possession relativement à l'ob- trouverait en sa possession rela-

jet de la plainte.

tivement à l'objet de la plainte.

Article 28

Article 28

1. La Commission d'enquête, La Commission d'enquête,

après un examen approfondi de la après un examen approfondi de la plainte, rédigera un rapport dans plainte, rédigera un rapport dans lequel elle consignera ses constata- lequel elle consignera ses constatations sur tous les points de fait tions sur tous les points de fait

permettant de préciser la portée permettant de préciser la portée de la contestation , ainsi que les de la contestation , ainsi que les recommandations qu'elle croira recommandations qu'elle croira devoir formuler quant aux mesures devoir formuler quant aux mesures

à prendre pour donner satisfaction à prendre pour donner satisfaction

au gouvernement plaignant et au gouvernement plaignant et

quant aux délais dans lesquels ces quant aux délais dans lesquels ces

mesures devraient être prises.

mesures devraient être prises.

2. Ce rapport indiquera également, le cas échéant, les sanctions

d'ordre économique contre le gouvernement mis en cause que la

Commission jugerait convenables et dont l'application par les autres

gouvernements lui paraitrait justifiée.

Article 29

Article 29

1. Le Secrétaire général de la 1. Le Directeur général du BuSociété des Nations communi- reau international du Travail com-

quera le rapport de la Commis- muniquera le rapport de la Com-

sion d'enquête à chacun des gou- mission d'enquête au Conseil d'ad-

vernements intéressés dans le dif- ministration et à chacun des gou-

férend , et en assurera la publica- vernements intéressés dans le dif-

tion.

férend, et en assurera la publica-

tion .

2. Chacun des gouvernements 2. Chacun des gouvernements

intéressés devra signifier au Secré- intéressés devra signifier au Ditaire général de la Société des recteur général du Bureau interNations, dans le délai d'un mois, national du Travail, dans le délai

s'il accepte ou non les recomman- de trois mois, s'il accepte ou non dations contenues dans le rapport les recommandations contenues de la Commission, et, au cas dans le rapport de la Commission

où il ne les accepte pas , s'il et, au cas où il ne les accepte pas, désire soumettre le différend à la s'il désire soumettre le différend Cour permanente de Justice in- à la Cour internationale de Justice. ternationale de la Société des Nations.

3542 Ante, p. 3518.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 30
In the event of any Member failing to take the action required

Article 80 In the event of any Member failing to take the action required

by Article 19 , with regard to a by paragraphs 5 (b ) , 6 (b) or recommendation or draft con- 7 (b ) (i ) of Article 19 with regard to vention, any other Member shall a Convention or Recommendation,

be entitled to refer the matter to any other Member shall be enthe Permanent Court of Inter- titled to refer the matter to the

national Justice .

Governing Body. In the event of the Governing Body finding

that there has been such a failure,

it shall report the matter to the

Conference .

Final decision.

Article 81 The decision of the Permanent Court of International Justice in

Article 31 The decision of the International Court of Justice in regard

regard to a complaint or matter to a complaint or matter which has

which has been referred to it in been referred to it in pursuance of pursuance of Article 29 or Article Article 29 shall be final .

30 shall be final.

Article 32
The Permanent Court of International Justice may affirm , vary or reverse any of the findings or recommendations of the Com-

Article 82 The International Court of
Justice may affirm, vary or reverse any of the findings or recommendations of the Commission of

mission of Enquiry, if any, and Enquiry , if any. shall in its decisions indicate the measures, if any, of an economic character which it considers to be appropriate, and which other Gov-

ernments would be justified in adopting against a defaulting Gov-

ernment .

Action in case of

Article 33 In the event of any Member

Article 33 In the event of any Member

noncompliance.

failing to carry out within the failing to carry out within the time specified the recommenda- time specified the recommendations, if any, contained in the tions, if any, contained in the report of the Commission of En- report of the Commission of Enquiry, or in the decision of the quiry, or in the decision of the Permanent Court of International International Court of Justice, as

Justice , as the case may be, any the case may be, the Governing other Member may take against Body may recommend to the that Member the measures of an Conference such action as it may

economic character indicated in deem wise and expedient to secure

the report of the Commission or compliance therewith.

in the decision of the Court as

appropriate to the case.

I

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3543

Article 30

Article 30

Dans le cas où l'un des Membres Dans le cas où l'un des Membres

ne prendrait pas, relativement à ne prendrait pas, relativement à une recommandation ou à un une convention ou à une recom-

projet de convention, les mesures mandation , les mesures prescrites

prescrites à l'article 19 , tout autre aux paragraphes 5 b ) , 6 b ) ou 7 b)

Membre aura le droit d'en référer i ) de l'article 19 tout autre Mem-

à la Cour permanente de Justice bre aura le droit d'en référer au

internationale .

Conseil d'administration . Au cas

où le Conseil d'administration

trouverait que le Membre n'a pas

pris les mesures prescrites , il en

fera rapport à la Conférence.

Article 31

Article 31

La décision de la Cour perma- La décision de la Cour internanente de Justice internationale tionale de Justice concernant une concernant une plainte ou une plainte ou une question qui lui question qui lui aurait été soumise aurait été soumise conformément conformément aux articles 29 ou à l'article 29 ne sera pas susceptible 30 ne sera pas susceptible d'appel . d'appel.

Article 32

Article 32

Les conclusions ou recomman- Les conclusions ou recommandations éventuelles de la Commis- dations éventuelles de la Commission d'enquête pourront être con- sion d'enquête pourront être confirmées, amendées, ou annulées par firmées, amendées ou annulées par la Cour permanente de Justice la Cour internationale de Justice. internationale, laquelle devra, le cas échéant, indiquer les sanctions d'ordre économique qu'elle croirait convenable de prendre à l'encontre d'un gouvernement en faute, et dont l'application par les autres gouvernements lui paraîtrait justifiée .

Article 38

Article 33

Si un Membre quelconque ne se Si un Membre quelconque ne se conforme pas dans le délai prescrit conforme pas dans le délai prescrit aux recommandations éventuelle- aux recommandations éventuellement contenues soit dans le rap- ment contenues soit dans le rapport de la Commission d'enquête, port de la Commission d'enquête , soit dans la décision de la Cour soit dans la décision de la Cour permanente de Justice interna- internationale de Justice , selon tionale, tout autre Membre pourra le cas, le Conseil d'administration appliquer audit Membre les sanc- pourra recommander à la Contions d'ordre économique que le férence telle mesure qui lui paraîtra rapport de la Commission ou la opportune pour assurer l'exécudécision de la Cour auront dé- tion de ces recommandations. clarées applicables en l'espèce.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

3544
Compliance; discontinuance of action.

Article 34
The defaulting Government may at any time inform the Gov-

Article 34 The defaulting Government may at any time inform the Gov-

erning Body that it has taken the erning Body that it has taken the

steps necessary to comply with the steps necessary to comply with the recommendations of the Commis- recommendations of the Commis-

sion of Enquiry or with those in sion of Enquiry or with those in the decision of the Permanent the decision of the International

Court of International Justice , as Court of Justice, as the case may the case may be , and may request be, and may request it to constiit to apply to the Secretary-Gen- tute a Commission of Enquiry to eral of the League to constitute a verify its contention . In this case

Ante, p. 3638.

Commission of Enquiry to verify the provisions of Articles 27 , 28, its contention . In this case the 29 , 31 and 32 shall apply, and if provisions of Articles 26 , 27 , 28 , the report of the Commission of

29 , 31 and 32 shall apply and if the Enquiry or the decision of the report of the Commission of En- International Court of Justice is in

quiry or the decision of the Per- favour of the defaulting Governmanent Court of International ment, the Governing Body shall Justice is in favour of the default- forthwith recommend the discon-

ing Government, the other Gov- tinuance of any action taken in

ernments shall forthwith discon- pursuance of Article 33 . tinue the measures of an economic

character that they have taken against the defaulting Govern-

ment. CHAPTER III

GENERAL

CHAPTER III -- GENERAL

Territorial application of ratified Con-
ventions.

Article 35

Article 85 1. The Members undertake that

1. The Members engage to apply conventions which they have Conventions which they have rati-

ratified in accordance with the pro- fied in accordance with the provi-

visions of this Part of the present sions of this Constitution shall be

Treaty to their colonies , protectorates and possessions which are not fully self-governing :

applied to the non-metropolitan territories for whose international
relations they are responsible, including any trust territories for

which they are the administering authority, except where the sub-

ject matter of the Convention is
(1 ) Except where owing to the within the self-governing powers of local conditions the convention is the territory or the Convention is

inapplicable , or

inapplicable owing to the local

(2) Subject to such modifica- conditions or subject to such tions as may be necessary to adapt modifications as may be necessary

the convention to local conditions . to adapt the Convention to local

conditions .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION- AUG . 2, 1948 3545

Article 34

Article 84

Le gouvernement en faute peut, Le gouvernement en faute peut , à tout moment , informer le Conseil à tout moment, informer le Conseil d'administration qu'il a pris les d'administration qu'il a pris les mesures nécessaires pour se con- mesures nécessaires pour se conformer soit aux recommandations former , soit aux recommandations de la Commission d'enquête, soit à de la Commission d'enquête , soit à celles contenues dans la décision celles contenues dans la décision de de la Cour permanente de Justice la Cour internationale de Justice , internationale , et peut demander et peut lui demander de bien vouau Conseil de bien vouloir faire loir faire constituer une Commisconstituer par le Secrétaire général sion d'enquête chargée de vérifier de la Société des Nations une Com- ses dires . Dans ce cas , les stipulamission d'enquête chargée de véri- tions des articles 27 , 28 , 29 , 31 et fier ses dires . Dans ce cas , les 32 s'appliqueront, et si le rapport stipulations des articles 26 , 27 , 28 , de la Commission d'enquête ou la 29, 31 et 32 s'appliqueront, et si le décision de la Cour internationale rapport de la Commission d'en- de Justice sont favorables au gouquête ou la décision de la Cour per- vernement qui était en faute, le manente de Justice internationale Conseil , d'administration devra sont favorables au gouvernement aussitôt recommander que les meen faute, les autres gouvernements sures prises conformément à l'ardevront aussitôt rapporter les me- ticle 33 soient rapportées . sures d'ordre économique qu'ils auront prises à l'encontre dudit Etat.

CHAPITRE III. - PRESCRIPTIONS CHAPITRE III . - PRESCRIPTIONS

GÉNÉRALES

GÉNÉRALES

Article 35

Article 35

1. Les Membres s'engagent à 1. Les Membres s'engagent à

appliquer les conventions aux- appliquer les conventions qu'ils quelles ils auront adhéré, con- auront ratifiées , conformément aux formément aux stipulations de la dispositions de la présente Constiprésente Partie du présent Traité, tution, aux territoires non métro-

à celles de leurs colonies ou pos- politains dont ils assurent les relasessions et à ceux de leurs pro- tions internationales, y compris

tectorats qui ne se gouvernent pas tous territoires sous tutelle pour

pleinement eux-mêmes, cela sous lesquels ils seraient l'autorité char-

les réserves suivantes :

gée de l'administration , à moins

1° Que la convention ne soit pas rendue inapplicable par les conditions locales ;
2° Que les modifications qui

que les questions traitées par la convention ne rentrent dans le
cadre de la compétence propre des autorités du territoire, ou que la convention ne soit rendue inap-

seraient nécessaires pour adapter plicable par les conditions locales ,

la convention aux conditions lo- ou sous réserve des modifications

cales puissent être introduites dans qui

seraient

nécessaires

pour

celle-ci .

adapter les conventions aux condi-

tions locales .

3546

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

2. And each of the Members 2. Each Member which ratifies

shall notify to the International a Convention shall as soon as posLabour Office the action taken in sible after ratification communi-

respect of each of its colonies , pro- cate to the Director-General of the

tectorates and possessions which International Labour Office a dec-

are not fully self-governing .

laration stating in respect of the

territories other than those re-

ferred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 below the extent to which it under-

takes that the provisions of the Convention shall be applied and giving such particulars as may be prescribed by the Convention.

3. Each Member which has communicated a declaration in virtue of the preceding paragraph may from time to time , in accordance with the terms of the Convention, communicate a further declaration modifying the terms of any former declaration and stating the present position in respect of such territories .

4. Where the subject matter of the Convention is within the self-governing powers of any nonmetropolitan territory the Member responsible for the international relations of that territory shall bring the Convention to the notice of the Government of the territory as soon as possible with a view to the enactment of legislation or other action by such Government. Thereafter the Member, in agree-
ment with the Government of the territory, may communicate to the Director-General of the International Labour Office a declaration accepting the obligations of the Convention on behalf of such
territory .
5. A declaration accepting the obligations of any Convention may be communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour Office

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3547

2. Chacun des Membres devra 2. Chaque Membre qui ratifie

notifier au Bureau international du une convention doit, dans le plus

Travail la décision qu'il se propose bref délai possible après sa ratifica-

de prendre en ce qui concerne cha- tion, communiquer au Directeur cune de ses colonies ou possessions général du Bureau international ou chacun de ses protectorats ne se du Travail une déclaration faisant

gouvernant pas pleinement eux- connaître, en ce qui concerne les

mêmes .

territoires autres que ceux dont il

s'agit aux paragraphes 4 et 5 ci-

dessous, dans quelle mesure il s'engage à ce que les dispositions de la convention soient appliquées , et donnant tous les renseignements

prescrits par ladite convention . 3. Chaque Membre qui aura
communiqué une déclaration en vertu du paragraphe précédent pourra périodiquement communiquer, conformément aux termes de la convention, une nouvelle déclaration modifiant les termes de toute déclaration antérieure et faisant connaître la situation concernant les territoires visés au paragraphe ci-dessus.

4. Lorsque les questions traitées par la convention entrent dans le cadre de la compétence propre des autorités d'un territoire non mé-

tropolitain, le Membre responsable des relations internationales de ce territoire devra communiquer dans le plus bref délai possible la convention au gouvernement dudit territoire, afin que ce gouvernement puisse promulguer une législation ou prendre d'autres mesures. Par la suite, le Membre, en accord avec le gouvernement de ce terri-

toire, pourra communiquer au Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail une déclara-

tion d'acceptation des obligations de la convention au nom de ce territoire .
5. Une déclaration d'acceptation des obligations d'une convention peut être communiquée au Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail.

68706-52- PT. III- -60

3548 59 Stat. 1031 .

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(a ) by two or more Members of the Organisation in respect of any territory which is under their joint authority ; or
(b) by any international authority responsible for the administration of any territory, in virtue of the Charter of the United Nations or otherwise, in respect of any such territory .
6. Acceptance of the obligations of a Convention in virtue of paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 shall involve the acceptance on behalf of the territory concerned of the obligations stipulated by the terms of the Convention and the obligations under the Constitution of the Organisation which apply to ratified Conventions. A declaration of acceptance may specify such modifications of the provisions of the Convention as may be necessary to adapt the Convention to local conditions.
7. Each Member or international authority which has communicated a declaration in virtue of paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 of this Article may from time to time, in accordance with the terms of the Convention , communicate a further declaration modifying the terms of any former declaration or terminating the acceptance of the obligations of the Convention on behalf of the territory concerned.
8. If the obligations of a Convention are not accepted on behalf of a territory to which paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 of this Article relates , the Member or Members or international authority concerned shall report to the DirectorGeneral of the International Labour Office the position of the law and practice of that territory in

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION- AUG . 2, 1948 3549
a) par deux ou plusieurs Membres de l'Organisation pour un territoire placé sous leur autorité conjointe ;
b) par toute autorité internationale responsable de l'administration d'un territoire en vertu des dispositions de la Charte des Nations Unies ou de toute autre disposition en vigueur, à l'égard de ce territoire.
6. L'acceptation des obligations d'une convention en vertu des paragraphes 4 et 5 devra comporter l'acceptation , au nom du territoire intéressé, des obligations découlant des termes de la convention et des obligations qui, aux termes de la Constitution de l'Organisation, s'appliquent aux conventions ratifiées . Toute déclaration d'acceptation peut spécifier les modifications aux dispositions de la convention qui seraient nécessaires pour adapter la convention aux conditions locales.
7. Chaque Membre ou autorité internationale qui aura communiqué une déclaration en vertu des paragraphes 4 ou 5 du présent article pourra périodiquement communiquer, conformément aux termes de la convention, une nouvelle déclaration modifiant les termes de toute déclaration antérieure ou dénoncant l'acceptation des obligations de toute convention au nom du territoire intéressé .
8. Si les obligations d'une convention ne sont pas acceptées au nom d'un territoire visé par les paragraphes 4 ou 5 du présent article, le Membre ou les Membres ou l'autorité internationale feront rapport au Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail sur la législation et la pratique de ce territoire à l'égard des questions

3550 Amendments. Ante, p. 3502.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

regard to the matters dealt with in the Convention and the report shall show the extent to which effect has been given, or is proposed to be given, to any of the provisions of the Convention by legislation, administrative action , collective agreement or otherwise and shall state the difficulties which prevent or delay the acceptance of such Convention .

Article 36

Article 86

Amendments to this Constitu- Amendments to this Constitu-

tion which are adopted by the tion which are adopted by the Conference by a majority of two Conference by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast by the thirds of the votes cast by the delegates present shall take effect delegates present shall take effect when ratified or accepted by two when ratified or accepted by two thirds of the Members of the thirds of the Members of the

Organisation including five of the Organisation including five of the eight Members which are repre- eight Members which are represented on the Governing Body as sented on the Governing Body as Members of chief industrial im- Members of chief industrial im-

portance in accordance with the portance in accordance with the

provisions of paragraph 3 of Arti- provisions of paragraph 3 of Arti-

cle 7 of this Constitution.

cle 7 of this Constitution.

Article 37

Article 87

Question or dispute.

Any question or dispute relating 1. Any question or dispute re-

to the interpretation of this Part lating to the interpretation of this

of the present Treaty or of any Constitution or of any subsequent subsequent convention concluded Convention concluded by the by the Members in pursuance of Members in pursuance of the the provisions of this Part of the provisions of this Constitution

present Treaty shall be referred shall be referred for decision to the

for decision to the Permanent International Court of Justice.

Court of International Justice.

2. Notwithstanding the provi-

sions of paragraph 1 of this Article

the Governing Body may make and submit to the Conference for

approval rules providing for the appointment of a tribunal for the

expeditious determination of any dispute or question relating to the interpretation of a Convention which may be referred thereto by the Governing Body or in accord-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG. 2, 1948 3551

traitées dans la convention, et le
rapport montrera dans quelle mesure il aura été ou sera donné effet à toute disposition de la convention, par la législation, les mesures administratives, les contrats collectifs ou toutes autres mesures , et

le rapport déclarera de plus les difficultés qui empêchent ou retardent l'acceptation de cette convention .

Article 36

Article 36

Les amendements à la présente Les amendements à la présente

Constitution adoptés par la Con- Constitution adoptés par la Con-

férence à la majorité des deux tiers férence à la majorité des deux tiers

des suffrages émis par les délégués des suffrages émis par les délégués

présents entreront en vigueur lors- présents entreront en vigueur lors-

qu'ils auront été ratifiés ou ac- qu'ils auront été ratifiés ou ac-

ceptés par les deux tiers des Mem- ceptés par les deux tiers des Membres de l'Organisation comprenant bres de l'Organisation comprenant cinq des huit Membres représentés cinq des huit Membres représentés au Conseil d'administration en au Conseil d'administration en

qualité de Membres ayant l'im- qualité de Membres ayant l'im-

portance industrielle la plus con- portance industrielle la plus con-

sidérable, conformément aux dis- sidérable, conformément aux dis-

positions du paragraphe 3 de positions du paragraphe 3 de

l'article 7 de la présente Constitu- l'article 7 de la présente Constitu-

tion .

tion.

Article 87

Article 87

Toutes questions ou difficultés 1. Toutes questions ou diffirelatives à l'interprétation de la cultés relatives à l'interprétation présente Partie du présent Traité de la présente Constitution et des et des conventions ultérieurement conventions ultérieurement con-

conclues par les Membres, en clues par les Membres, en vertu de

vertu de ladite Partie, seront ladite Constitution , seront sou-

soumises à l'appréciation de la mises à l'appréciation de la Cour

Cour permanente de Justice inter- internationale de Justice.

nationale.

2. Nonobstant les dispositions

du paragraphe 1 du présent article, le Conseil d'administration pourra

formuler et soumettre à la Confé-

rence pour approbation des règles pour l'institution d'un tribunal en

vue du prompt règlement de toute question ou difficulté relatives à l'interpretation d'une convention , qui pourront être portées devant le tribunal par le Conseil d'ad-

3552

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Regionalconferences and agencies.

ance with the terms of the Convention. Any applicable judgment or advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice shall be binding upon any tribunal established in virtue of this paragraph. Any award made by such a tribunal shall be circulated to the Members of the Organisation and any observations which they may make thereon shall be brought before the Conference.
Article 38
1. The International Labour
Organisation may convene such regional conferences and establish such regional agencies as may be desirable to promote the aims and purposes of the Organisation.

2. The powers, functions and procedure of regional conferences shall be governed by rules drawn up by the Governing Body and submitted to the General Conference for confirmation .

Full juridical personality of ILO.
Privileges and immunities .

CHAPTER IV - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Article 39 The International Labour Organisation shall possess full juridical personality and in particular the capacity
(a) to contract ; (b) to acquire and dispose of
immovable and movable
property ; (c) to institute legal proceed-
ings .
Article 40 1. The International Labour Organisation shall enjoy in the territory of each of its Members such privileges and immunities as

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG . 2, 1948 3553
ministration ou conformément aux termes de ladite convention . Tous arrêts ou avis consultatifs de la Cour internationale de Justice lieront tout tribunal institué en vertu du présent paragraphe. Toute sentence prononcée par un tel tribunal sera communiquée aux Membres de l'Organisation et toute observation de ceux- ce sera présentée à la Conférence.
Article 38
1. L'Organisation internationale du Travail pourra convoquer telles conférences régionales et établir telles institutions régionales qui lui paraîtront utiles pour atteindre les buts et objectifs de l'Organisation.
2. Les pouvoirs, fonctions et procédure des conférences régionales seront régis par des règles formulées par le Conseil d'administration et présentées par lui à la Conférence générale pour confirmation .
CHAPITRE IV . MESURES DIVERSES
Article 89 L'Organisation internationale du Travail doit posséder la personnalité juridique ; elle a notamment, la capacité:
a) de contracter; b) d'acquérir des biens meubles
et immeubles, de disposer de ces biens ; c) d'ester en justice.
Article 40 1. L'Organisation internationale du Travail jouit, sur le territoire de chacun de ses Membres , des privilèges et immunités qui lui sont

3554

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
are necessary for the fulfilment of its purposes .
2. Delegates to the Conference, members of the Governing Body and the Director-General and officials of the Office shall likewise enjoy such privileges and immunities as are necessary for the independent exercise of their functions in connection with the Organisation .

Adoption of Declaration.
Principles.

3. Such privileges and immunities shall be defined in a separate agreement to be prepared by the Organisation with a view to its acceptance by the Members .
ANNEX
Declaration concerning the aims and purposes of the International Labour Organisation. The General Conference of the
International Labour Organisation, meeting in its Twenty-sixth Session in Philadelphia, hereby adopts , this tenth day of May in the year nineteen hundred and forty-four, the present Declaration of the aims and purposes of the International Labour Organisation and of the principles which should inspire the policy of its Members.
I
The Conference reaffirms the fundamental principles on which the Organisation is based and, in particular , that :
(a) labour is not a commodity;
(b) freedom of expression and of association are essential to sustained progress ;
(c ) poverty anywhere constitutes a danger to prosperity everywhere ;
(d) the war against want requires to be carried on with unrelenting vigour within each nation,

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL -INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3555
nécessaires pour atteindre ses buts.
2. Les délégués à la Conférence, les membres du Conseil d'administration ainsi que le Directeur général et les fonctionnaires du Bureau jouissent également des privilèges et immunités qui leur sont nécessaires pour exercer, en toute indépendance, leurs fonctions en rapport avec l'Organisation .
3. Ces privilèges et immunités seront précisés dans un accord séparé qui sera préparé par l'Organisation en vue de son acceptation par les Etats Membres .
ANNEXE Déclaration concernant les buts et
objectifs de l'Organisation internationale du Travail.
La Conférence générale de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, réunie à Philadelphie en sa vingt-sixième session, adopte, ce dixième jour de mai 1944 , la présente Déclaration des buts et objectifs de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, ainsi que des principes dont devrait s'inspirer la politique de ses Membres .
I
La Conférence affirme à nouveau les principes fondamentaux sur lesquels est fondée l'Organisation, à savoir notamment:
a) le travail n'est pas une marchandise ;
b) la liberté d'expression et d'association est une condition indispensable d'un progrès soutenu ;
c) la pauvreté, où qu'elle existe, constitue un danger pour la prospérité de tous ;
d) la lutte contre le besoin doit être menée avec une inlassable

3556

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
and by continuous and concerted international effort in which the representatives of workers and employers , enjoying equal status with those of Governments, join with them in free discussion and democratic decision with a view to the promotion of the common welfare.
II
Believing that experience has fully demonstrated the truth of the statement in the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation that lasting peace can be established only if it is based on social justice, the Conference affirms that:
(a) all human beings, irrespective of race, creed or sex, have the right to pursue both their material well-being and their spiritual development in conditions of freedom and dignity, of economic security and equal opportunity ;
(b) the attainment of the conditions in which this shall be possible must constitute the central aim of national and international policy ;
(c) all national and international policies and measures , in particular those of an economic and financial character, should be judged in this light and accepted only in so far as they may be held to promote and not to hinder the achievement of this fundamental objective ;
(d) it is a responsibility of the International Labour Organisation to examine and consider all international economic and financial policies and measures in the light of this fundamental objective ;

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG. 2, 1948 3557
énergie au sein de chaque nation , et par un effort international continu et concerté dans lequel les représentants des travailleurs et des employeurs, coopérant sur un pied d'égalité avec ceux des gouvernements, participent à de libres discussions et à des décisions de caractère démocratique en vue de promouvoir le bien commun.
II
Convaincue que l'expérience a pleinement démontré le bien-fondé de la déclaration contenue dans la Constitution de l'Organisation internationale du Travail, et d'après laquelle une paix durable ne peut être établie que sur la base de la justice sociale, la Conférence affirme que:
a) tous les êtres humains, quels que soient leur race , leur croyance ou leur sexe, ont le droit de poursuivre leur progrès matériel et leur développement spirituel dans la liberté et la dignité, dans la sécurité économique et avec des chances égales ;
b) la réalisation des conditions permettant d'aboutir à ce résultat doit constituer le but central de toute politique nationale et internationale ;
c) tous les programmes d'action et mesures prises sur le plan national et international, notamment dans le domaine économique et financier, doivent être appréciés de ce point de vue et acceptés seulement dans la mesure où ils apparaissent de nature à favoriser, et non à entraver, l'accomplissement de cet objectif fondamental ;
d) il incombe à l'Organisation internationale du Travail d'examiner et de considérer à la lumière de cet objectif fondamental, dans le domaine international, tous les programmes d'action et mesures d'ordre économique et financier;

3558

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(e) in discharging the tasks entrusted to it the International Labour Organisation , having considered all relevant economie and financial factors , may include in its decisions and recommendations any provisions which it considers
appropriate .
III The Conference recognises the solemn obligation of the International Labour Organisation to further among the nations of the world programmes which will achieve:
(a) full employment and the raising of standards of living ;
(b) the employment of workers in the occupations in which they can have the satisfaction of giving the fullest measure of their skill and attainments and make their greatest contribution to the com-
mon well-being; (c) the provision , as a means to
the attainment of this end and under adequate guarantees for all concerned, of facilities for training and the transfer of labour, including migration for employment and settlement ;
(d) policies in regard to wages and earnings, hours and other conditions of work calculated to ensure a just share of the fruits of progress to all, and a minimum living wage to all employed and in need of such protection ;
(e) the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining, the co-operation of management and labour in the continuous improvement of productive efficiency, and the collaboration of workers and employers in the

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG . 2, 1948 3559
e) en s'acquittant des tâches qui lui sont confiées, l'Organisation internationale du Travail, après avoir tenu compte de tous les facteurs économiques et financiers pertinents, a qualité pour inclure dans ses décisions et recommandations toutes dispositions qu'elle juge appropriées .
III La Conférence reconnaît l'obligation solennelle pour l'Organisation internationale du Travail de seconder la mise en oeuvre, parmi les différentes nations du monde, de programmes propres à réaliser:
a) la plénitude de l'emploi et l'élévation des niveaux de vie ;
b) l'emploi des travailleurs à des occupations où ils aient la satisfaction de donner toute la mesure de leur habileté et de leurs connaissances et de contribuer le mieux au bien-être commun ;
c) pour atteindre ce but, la mise en oeuvre, moyennant garanties adéquates pour tous les intéressés, de possibilités de formation et de moyens propres à faciliter les transferts de travailleurs , y compris les migrations de main-d'oeuvre et de colons ;
d) la possibilité pour tous d'une participation équitable aux fruits du progrès en matière de salaires et de gains, de durée du travail et autres conditions de travail, et un salaire minimum vital pour tous ceux qui ont un emploi et ont besoin d'une telle protection ;
e) la reconnaissance effective du droit de négociation collective et la coopération des employeurs et de la main-d'oeuvre pour l'améloration continue de l'organisation de la production, ainsi que la collaboration des travailleurs et des employeurs à l'élaboration

3560

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
preparation and application of social and economic measures ;
(f) the extension of social security measures to provide a basic income to all in need of such protection and comprehensive medical care ;
(g) adequate protection for the life and health of workers in all
occupations ; (h) provision for child welfare
and maternity protection ; (i) the provision of adequate
nutrition , housing and facilities for recreation and culture ;
(j) the assurance of equality of educational and vocational op-
portunity . IV
Confident that the fuller and broader utilisation of the world's productive resources necessary for the achievement of the objectives set forth in this Declaration can be secured by effective international and national action , including measures to expand production and consumption , to avoid severe economic fluctuations , to promote the economic and social advancement of the less developed regions of the world , to assure greater stability in world prices of primary products , and to pro-
mote a high and steady volume of international trade, the Conference pledges the full co-operation of the International Labour Organisation with such interna-
tional bodies as may be entrusted with a share of the responsibility for this great task and for the promotion of the health , education and well-being of all peoples .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION- AUG. 2, 1948 3561
et à l'application de la politique sociale et économique ;
f) l'extension des mesures de sécurité sociale en vue d'assurer un revenu de base à tous ceux qui ont besoin d'une telle protection , ainsi que des soins médicaux complets ;
g) une protection adéquate de la vie et de la santé des travailleurs dans toutes les occupations ;
h) la protection de l'enfance et de la maternité;
i) un niveau adéquat d'alimentation, de logement, et de moyens de récréation et de culture ;
j) la garantie de chances égales dans le domaine éducatif et professionnel.
IV
Convaincue qu'une utilisation plus complète et plus large des ressources productives du monde , nécessaire à l'accomplissement des objectifs énumérés dans la présente Déclaration , peut être assurée par une action efficace sur le plan international et national, et notamment par des mesures tendant à promouvoir l'expansion de la production et de la consommation, à éviter des fluctuations. économiques graves, à réaliser l'avancement économique et social des régions dont la mise en valeur est peu avancée, à assurer une plus grande stabilité des prix mondiaux des matières premières et denrées , et à promouvoir un commerce international de volume élevé et constant, la Conférence promet l'entière collaboration de l'Organisation internationale du Travail avec tous organismes internationaux auxquels pourra être confiée une part de responsabilité dans cette grande tâche, ainsi que dans l'amélioration de la santé, de l'éducation et du bien-être de tous les peuples .

3562

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
V The Conference affirms that the principles set forth in this Declaration are fully applicable to all peoples everywhere and that, while the manner of their application must be determined with due regard to the stage of social and economic development reached by each people , their progressive application to peoples who are still dependent, as well as to those who have already achieved self-government , is a matter of concern to the whole civilised world .
CHAPTER IV TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
Article 38
1. The first meeting of the Conference shall take place in October, 1919. The place and agenda for this meeting shall be as specified in the Annex hereto.
2. Arrangements for the convening and the organisation of the first meeting of the Conference will be made by the Government designated for the purpose in the said Annex . That Government shall be assisted in the preparation of the documents for submission to the Conference by an International Committee constituted as provided in the said Annex .
3. The expenses of the first meeting and of all subsequent meetings held before the League of Nations has been able to establish a general fund, other than the expenses of Delegates and their advisers, will be borne by the Members in accordance with the apportionment of the expenses of the International Bureau of the Universal Postal Union.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG. 2, 1948 3563

CHAPITRE IV. -- MESURES TRANSITOIRES

V
La Conférence affirme que les principes énoncés dans la présente Déclaration sont pleinement ap-
plicables à tous les peuples du monde, et que, si , dans les modalités de leur application, il doit être dûment tenu compte du degré de développement social et économique de chaque peuple , leur application progressive aux peuples qui sont encore dépendants, aussi bien qu'à ceux qui ont atteint le stade où ils se gouvernent eux-mêmes, intéresse l'ensemble du monde civilisé.

Article 88
1. La première session de la Conférence aura lieu au mois d'octobre 1919. Le lieu et l'ordre du jour de la session sont arrêtés dans l'annexe ci-jointe.
2. La convocation et l'organisation de cette première session seront assurées par le gouvernement désigné à cet effet dans l'annexe susmentionnée . La gou-
vernement sera assisté, en ce qui concerne la préparation des documents, par une commission internationale dont les membres seront désignés à la même annexe.

3. Les frais de cette première session et de toute session ulté-
rieure jusqu'au moment où les crédits nécessaires auront pu être inscrits au budget de la Société des Nations, à l'exception des frais de déplacement des délégués et des conseillers techniques, seront répartis entre les Membres dans les proportions établies pour le Bureau international de l'Union postale universelle .

3564

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT .
Article 39 Until the League of Nations has been constituted all communications which under the provisions of the foregoing Articles should be addressed to the Secretary- General of the League will be preserved by the Director of the International Labour Office , who will transmit them to the SecretaryGeneral of the League.
Article 40 Pending the creation of a Permanent Court of International Justice , disputes which in accordance with this Part of the present Treaty would be submitted to it for decision will be referred to a tribunal of three persons appointed by the Council of the League of Nations .
ANNEX
FIRST MEETING OF ANNUAL LABOUR CONFERENCE , 1919
1. The place of meeting will be Washington.
2. The Government of the United States of America is requested to convene the Conference .
3. The International Organising Committee will consist of seven members , appointed by the United States of America , Great Britain, France, Italy, Japan , Belgium and Switzerland . The Committee may, if it thinks necessary, invite other Members to appoint representatives .
4. Agenda:
(1 ) Application of principle of the 8-hours day or of the 48-hours week .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION- AUG . 2, 1948 3565
Article 39
Jusqu'à ce que la Société des Nations ait été constituée, toutes communications qui devraient être adressées, en vertu des articles précédents , au Secrétaire général de la Société, seront conservées par le Directeur du Bureau international du Travail, lequel en donnera connaissance au Secrétaire général .
Article 40
Jusqu'à la création de la Cour permanente de Justice internationale, les différends qui doivent lui être soumis en vertu de la présente Partie du présent Traité seront déférés à un tribunal formé de trois personnes désignées par le Conseil de la Société des Nations.
ANNEXE
PREMIÈRE SESSION DE LA CONFÉRENCE INTERNATIONALE
DU TRAVAIL, 1919
1. Le lieu de la Conférence sera Washington.
2. Le gouvernement des EtatsUnis d'Amérique sera prié de convoquer la Conférence .
3. Le Comité international d'organisation sera composé de sept personnes désignées respectivement par les gouvernements des Etats-Unis, de la Grande-Bretagne, de la France , de l'Italie, du Japon, de la Belgique et de la Suisse . Le Comité pourra, s'il le juge nécessaire, inviter d'autres Membres à se faire représenter dans son sein .
4. L'ordre du jour sera le suivant:
1° Application du principe de la journée de 8 heures ou de la semaine de 48 heures.

3566

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(2) Question of preventing or providing against unemployment .
(3) Women's employment : (a ) Before and after child-
birth, including the question of maternity benefit ;
(b) During the night ; (c) In unhealthy processes .
(4) Employment of children :
(a) Minimum age of employment ;
(b) During the night ; (c) In unhealthy processes. (5) Extension and application of the International Conventions adopted at Berne in 1906 on the prohibition of night work for women employed in industry and the prohibition of the use of white phosphorus in the manufacture of matches .
SECTION II
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Article 41
The High Contracting Parties , recognising that the well-being, physical, moral and intellectual , of industrial wage earners is of supreme international importance, have framed, in order to further this great end, the permanent machinery provided for in Section I, and associated with that of the League of Nations .
They recognise that differences of climate, habits and customs , of economic opportunity and industrial tradition, make strict uniformity in the conditions of labour difficult of immediate attainment. But, holding as they do that labour should not beregarded merely as an article ofcommerce, they think that there are methods and principles for regulating labour conditions

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG. 2, 1948 3567
2° Questions relatives aux moyens de prévenir le chômage et de remédier à ses conséquences.
3º Emploi des femmes :
a) avant ou après l'accouchement (y compris la question de l'indemnité de maternité) ;
b) pendant la nuit ; c) dans les travaux insalubres .
4° Emploi des enfants :
a) âge d'admission au travail ;
b) travaux de nuit ; c) travaux insalubres . 5º Extension et application des conventions internationales adoptées à Berne en 1906 sur l'interdiction du travail de nuit des femmes employées dans l'industrie et l'interdiction de l'emploi du phosphore blanc (jaune ) dans l'industrie des allumettes .
SECTION II
PRINCIPES GÉNÉRAUX
Article 41 Les Hautes Parties Contractantes , reconnaissant que le bienêtre physique, moral et intellectuel des travailleurs salariés est d'une importance essentielle au point de vue international, ont établi, pour parvenir à ce but élevé, l'organisme permanent prévu à la section I et associé à celui de la Société des Nations . Elles reconnaissent que les différences de climat, de moeurs et d'usages, d'opportunité économique et de tradition industrielle rendent difficile à atteindre, d'une manière immédiate, l'uniformité absolue dans les conditions du travail. Mais, persuadées qu'elles sont que le travail ne doit pas être considéré simplement comme un article de commerce , elles pensent

3568

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
which all industrial communities should endeavour to apply, so far as their special circumstances will permit .

Among these methods and principles, the following seem to the High Contracting Parties to be of special and urgent importance :
First. The guiding principle above enunciated that labour should not be regarded merely as a commodity or article of commerce .
-Second. The right of association for all lawful purposes by the employed as well as by the employers . Third.-- The payment to the employed of a wage adequate to maintain a reasonable standard of life as this is understood in their time and country. Fourth.-The adoption of an eight hours day or a forty-eight hours week as the standard to be aimed at where it has not already been attained.
Fifth..-The adoption of weekly rest of at least twenty-four hours, which should include Sunday wherever practicable.
Sixth. The abolition of child labour and the imposition of such limitations on the labour of young persons as shall permit the continuation of their education and
assure their proper physical development .
Seventh. The principle that men and women should receive equal remuneration for work of equal value .
Eighth. The standard set by law in each country with respect

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION -- AUG. 2, 1948 3569
qu'il y a des méthodes et des principes pourla réglementation des conditions du travail que toutes les communautés industrielles devraient s'efforcer d'appliquer, autant que les circonstances spéciales dans lesquelles elles pourraient se trouver le permettraient .
Parmi ces méthodes et principes, les suivants paraissent aux Hautes Parties Contractantes être d'une importance particulière et urgente:
1er-Le principe dirigeant cidessus énoncé que le travail ne doit pas être considéré simplement comme une marchandise ou un article de commerce.
2me -Le droit d'association en
vue de tous objets non contraires aux lois, aussi bien pour les salariés que pour les employeurs.
3me-Le paiement aux travailleurs d'un salaire leur assurant un niveau de vie convenable tel qu'on le comprend dans leur temps et dans leur pays.
4me-L'adoption de la journée de 8 heures ou de la semaine de 48 heures comme but à atteindre partout où il n'a pas encore été obtenu.
5me-L'adoption d'un repos hebdomadaire de 24 heures au mini-
mum, qui devrait comprendre le dimanche toutes les fois que ce
sera possible. 6m -La suppression du travail
des enfants et l'obligation d'apporter au travail des jeunes gens des deux sexes les limitations nécessaires pour leur permettre de continuer leur éducation et d'assurer leur développement physique.
7me-Le principe du salaire égal, sans distinction de sexe, pour un travail de valeur égale.
8me-Les règles édictées dans chaque pays au sujet des condi-

3570

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
to the conditions of labour should have due regard to the equitable economic treatment of all workers lawfully resident therein.
Ninth.-Each State should make provision for a system of inspection in which women should take part, in order to ensure the enforcement of the laws and regulations for the protection of the employed .
Without claiming that these methods and principles are either complete or final, the High Contracting Parties are of opinion that they are well fitted to guide the policy of the League of Nations ; and that, if adopted by the industrial communities who are Members of the League, and safeguarded in practice by an adequate system of such inspection, they will confer lasting benefits upon the wage earners of the world.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION--AUG . 2, 1948 3571 tions du travail devront assurer un traitement économique équitable à tous les travailleurs résidant légalement dans le pays .
9me-Chaque Etat devra organiser un service d'inspection qui comprendra des femmes, afin d'assurer l'application des lois et règlements pour la protection des travailleurs .
Sans proclamer que ces principes et ces méthodes sont ou complets ou définitifs , les Hautes Parties Contractantes sont d'avis qu'ils sont propres à guider la politique de la Société des Nations, et que, s'ils sont adoptés par les communautés industrielles qui sont Membres de la Société des Nations, et s'ils sont maintenus intacts dans la pratique par un corps approprié d'inspecteurs , ils répandront des bienfaits permanents sur les salariés du monde.
68706-52- PT. III- -61

3572

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

The foregoing is the authentic Le texte qui précède est le texte

text of the Constitution of the authentique de l'instrument d'a-

International Labour Organisa- mendement à la Constitution de

tion Instrument of Amendment , l'Organisation internationale du

1946 , duly adopted by the General Travail, 1946 , dûment adopté par

Conference of the International la Conférence générale de l'Or-

Labour Organisation on the ninth ganisation internationale du Tra-

day of October one thousand nine vail le neuf octobre mil neuf cent

hundred and forty-six in the course quarante-six, au cours de sa vingt-

of its Twenty-ninth Session, which neuvième session, qui s'est tenue

was held at Montreal.

à Montréal.

Authoritative texts. The English and French ver- Les versions française et anglaise

sions of the text of this Instrument du texte du présent instrument

of Amendment are equally authori- d'amendement font également foi. tative.
IN FAITH WHEREOF we have EN FOI DE QUOI ont apposé

appended our signatures this first leurs signatures , ce premier jour

day of November 1946 .

de novembre 1946 .

The President of the Conference, Le Président de la Conférence, HUMPHREY MITCHELL .

The Director-General of the International Labour Office, Le Directeur général du Bureau international du Travail,
EDWARD PHELAN .

Ante, p. 3486.

The Director-General of the International Labor Organization to the American Consul

RNATIONAL DU TRAVAIL GENÈVE

INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE GENEVA

Dans la réponse, prière de rappeler le: When replying, please quote reference: No.

23 Aoû. 1948

SIR, I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt by the International
Labour Office on 2 August 1948 of the instrument of acceptance by the United States of America of the Constitution of the International Labour Organisation Instrument of Amendment , 1946 , adopted by the 29th Session of the International Labour Conference at Montreal on 9 October 1946 .
I should be grateful if you would transmit to the Secretary of State my deep appreciation of the communication of this instrument, as a result of which all of the States Members of chief industrial
importance have now ratified or accepted the Constitution as amended .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-- INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION-AUG. 2, 1948 3573 I enclose for your information a list of the forty-three Members of
the Organisation which have communicated their ratification or acceptance up to the present date.
I have the honour to be ,
Sir ,
Your obedient servant ,

HARRY L. TROUTMAN, Esq ., Consul, American Consulate, Geneva.

Will Edward Phelan Director - General

LIST OF MEMBERS OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANISATION WHICH HAVE COMMUNICATED THEIR FORMAL RATIFICATION OR ACCEPTANCE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE INTERNATION AL LABOUR ORGANISATION INSTRUMENT OF AMENDMENT, 1946, WITH DATES OF RECEIPT OF THE COMMUNICATIONS

Afghanistan Australia Austria O Belgium Bolivia Brazil Burma O Canada Ceylon O China Colombia Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Ethiopia Finland O France Greece Guatemala Iceland O India Iran Iraq Ireland Italy Mexico

(Position as at 10 August 1948)
ratification acceptance acceptance ratification ratification ratification
acceptance ratification acceptance ratification acceptance ratification ratification acceptance ratification ratification ratification ratification ratification ratification ratification acceptance acceptance ratification ratification ratification

4. 6. 1947 21. 4. 1948 24. 6. 1947 15. 1. 1948 22. 5.1947 13. 4. 1948 18. 5. 1948 31. 7. 1947 28. 6. 1948 4. 8. 1947 7. 5. 1947 28. 6. 1947 29. 8. 1947 15. 5. 1947 31. 7. 1947 28. 6. 1947 20. 1. 1948 11. 12. 1947 1. 10. 1947 17. 4. 1948 17. 11. 1947 30. 4. 1947 9. 9. 1947 14. 6. 1947 11. 12. 1947 20. 4. 1948

Member represented on the Governing Body as a Member of chief industrial importance.

3574

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

O Netherlands

ratification

New Zealand

ratification

Norway Pakistan

ratification acceptance

Philippines Poland

acceptance ratification

Portugal Salvador Siam

ratification ratification ratification

Sweden Switzerland

ratification ratification

Syria Turkey Union of South Africa

acceptance ratification ratification

O United Kingdom of Great Britain and

Northern Ireland

ratification

O United States of America Venezuela

acceptance ratification

15. 1. 1948 8. 7. 1947 27. 11. 1947 31. 10. 1947 15. 6. 1948 11. 12. 1947 11. 12. 1947 21. 6. 1948 25. 2. 1947 29. 5. 1947 22. 8. 1947 4. 12. 1947 23. 2. 1948 19. 6. 1947
28. 5. 1947 2. 8. 1948 13. 6. 1947

O Member represented on the Governing Body as a Member of chief industrial importance.

62 STAT. ]

MEXICO- FISHERIES MISSION- Sept. 15, 1948 Oct. 6, 1948

3575

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting a fisheries mission, further extending the agreement effected by exchanges of communications dated April 17, May 22 , July 22 and 27, and October 24, 1942. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington September 15 and October 6, 1948; entered into force October 6, 1948.

September 15, and October 6, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1869]

The Secretary of State to the Mexican Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON

SIR :

Sep 15 1948

I refer to the Embassy's note no . 2807 of May 28, 1948 [ '] and to

the Department's note of June 30 , 1948 [ ] in reply, concerning the

request of the Government of Mexico for the extension, beginning

October 23 , 1948, of the Fisheries Mission to Mexico, headed by Mr. Milton J. Lindner.

It is a pleasure to inform you that it will be possible to extend the Memorandum Agreement [2] establishing the Mission in reference under similar conditions as those obtaining in the extension effected by note no. 414 of September 23, 1946 from the American Ambassa- 61 p. 2003Stat. , Pt . 3, . dor at Mexico , D. F. to the Mexican Secretary for Foreign Relations and the note of October 22 , 1946 from the Ministry of Foreign 61 Stat . Pt. 3,
p. 2904. Affairs of Mexico to the American Ambassador in reply.
That is to say, the agreement can be extended for another two-
year period , or to October 23 , 1950, on the understanding that the Fish and Wildlife Service reserves the privilege of withdrawing Mr.
Lindner from time to time for temporary duty not related to the Mission's work and that this Government's participation in the
Mission is subject to the availability of appropriated funds for the
purpose after June 30 , 1949 , the end of the current fiscal year. If the foregoing proposal is acceptable to the Government of
Mexico, and if you will inform this Department to that effect , your note of approval will be considered as consummation of the extension of the Memorandum Agreement which will otherwise expire on October 23, 1948.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration .

The Honorable

For the Secretary of State: GEORGE V. ALLEN

Señor Don RAFAEL DE LA COLINA,

Minister Plenipotentiary,

Charge d'Affaires ad interim of Mexico.

1 Not printed.

2 The phrase "memorandum agreement" was used in communication 3041 of Sept. 7, 1944, from the American Embassy to describe an agreement "effected by the exchange of notes between the Embassy and the Ministry, particularly the Embassy's communications no. 138 and no . 269 of April 17 and May 22, 1942, and the Ministry's note no. 58807 of October 24, 1942." (See 58 Stat. 1554.)

3576

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

The Mexican Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Secretary of State

EMBAJADA DE MEXICO 4796

WASHINGTON, D. C. a 6 de octubre de 1948.

SEÑOR SECRETARIO:
Tengo el honor de hacer referencia a la nota de Su Excelencia fechada el 15 de septiembre próximo pasado , relacionada con la petición de mi Gobierno para que fuese prorrogada la permanencia en México de la Misión Americana de Pesca que preside el señor Milton J. Lindner, biólogo y carcinólogo del Fish and Wildlife Service del Departamento del Interior.
Mi Gobierno está de acuerdo en que la prórroga se lleve a cabo por un período de dos años, a partir del 23 de octubre de 1948 , de acuerdo con las condiciones que se establecieron en la nota número 414 del 23 de septiembre de 1946, dirigida por la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América en México a la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores, y por la nota fechada el 22 de octubre de 1946 , dirigida por la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores a la citada Misión Diplomática.
Aprovecho esta ocasión para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .

RAFAEL DE LA COLINA

Excelentísimo Señor ROBERT LOVET, Secretario de Estado en Funciones

Encargado de Negocios a.i.

Washington, D. C.

EMBASSY OF MEXICO 4796

Translation WASHINGTON, D. C. , October 6, 1948.

MR. SECRETARY : I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note dated September
15 last , relative to my Government's request for an extension of the stay in Mexico of the American Fisheries Mission which is headed by Mr. Milton J. Lindner, biologist and carcinologist of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior.

My Government agrees to an extension of two years from October
23 , 1948 , in accordance with the terms stipulated in note No. 414 of
61 Stat ., Pt . 3, September 23 , 1946, addressed by the Embassy of the United States p. 2903.
of America to the Department of Foreign Relations, and in the note
61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , of October 22 , 1946 , addressed by the Department of Foreign Relap. 2904.
tions to the said Diplomatic Mission.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

RAFAEL DE LA COLINA

The Honorable

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

ROBERT LOVETT, Acting Secretary of State Washington, D. C.

62 STAT. ] U. K.-U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION-SEPT. 22, 1948

3577

Agreement and exchange of notes between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting a United States Educational Commission in the United Kingdom. Signed at London September 22, 1948; entered into force September 22, 1948.

September 22, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1870]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND FOR THE USE OF FUNDS MADE AVAILABLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF THE JOINT STATEMENT REGARDING SETTLEMENT FOR LEND-LEASE, RECIPROCAL AID, SURPLUS WAR PROPERTY AND CLAIMS MADE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND ON 6th DECEMBER, 1945.

60 Stat. 1564.

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Desiring to promote further mutual understanding between the peoples of the United States and of the United Kingdom and the Colonial Dependencies by a wider exchange of knowledge and professional talents ;

Considering that Section 32 ( b ) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended by Public Law No. 584, 79th Congress, provides that the Secretary of State of the United States may enter

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. 8. C. spp .
§ 1641 (b).

into an agreement for certain educational activities with any foreign government for the use of currencies or credits for currencies of such

foreign government acquired as a result of surplus property disposals ; and
Considering that paragraph 6 of the Joint Statement Regarding Settlement for Lend-Lease, Reciprocal Aid , Surplus War Property and Claims made by the Government of the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom on 6th December, 1945 (hereinafter designated "the Joint Statement " ) , provides for acquisition by the Government of the United States from the Government of the United Kingdom of a sum in pounds sterling to an aggregate dollar value not in excess of $50,000,000 for the purpose, inter alia, of carrying out educational programmes in accordance with agreements to be concluded between the two Governments ;
Having accordingly agreed as follows :-

60 Stat. 1565.

ARTICLE 1

(a) There shall be established a joint Commission to be known as the United States Educational Commission in the United Kingdom (hereinafter designated "the Commission" ) , which shall be recognised

United States Educational Commission
idnomth. e United King-

3578

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Deposits. 60 Stat. 1565.
Use offunds.

by the Government of the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom as an organisation created and established to facilitate the administration of the educational programme to be financed by funds made available by the Government of the United Kingdom in accordance with the terms of the present Agreement.
(b ) Except as provided in Article 5 hereof, the Commission in the exercise of its powers under the present Agreement shall be exempt from the domestic and local laws of the United States so far as they relate to the use and expenditure of currencies and credits for currencies.
ARTICLE 2
( a) Pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6 of the Joint Statement, the Government of the United Kingdom, within 30 days from the date of signature of the present Agreement , shall make funds available for the purposes ofthe present Agreement by deposit in the United Kingdom in the name of the Treasurer of the United States a sum in pounds sterling equivalent to the sum of $1,000,000 in United States currency .
(b ) The rate of exchange to be used in determining the sum in pounds sterling to be so deposited shall be the rate which, on the day of deposit, is available to the Government of the United States for its diplomatic and other similar official expenditures in the United Kingdom.
(c) The funds made available by the Government of the United Kingdom under paragraph (a) of this Article (hereinafter designated "the funds" ) shall be placed at the disposal of the Commission as required for the purposes of the present Agreement by deposit in the United Kingdom in the name of the Treasurer of the Commission, or of such other employee of the Commission as it shall designate, in accounts with one or more banks to be selected by the Secretary of State of the United States.
(d) The funds shall be regarded in the United Kingdom as the property of a foreign government.
ARTICLE 3
Subject to the provisions of the present Agreement, the funds shall be used by the Commission for the purposes of
(a) financing studies , research, instruction , and other educational activities of or for citizens of the United States in schools and institutions of higher learning located in the United Kingdom or the Colonial Dependencies or of the citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies in United States schools and institutions of higher learning located outside the continental United States, Hawaii , Alaska ( including the Aleutian Islands ) , Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, including payment for transportation, tuition, maintenance, and other expenses incidental to scholastic activities ; or
(b ) furnishing transportation for citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies who desire to attend United States schools and

62 STAT. ] U. K.-U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION-SEPT. 22, 1948

3579

institutions of higher learning in the continental United States, Hawaii, Alaska ( including the Aleutian Islands ) , Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, and whose attendance will not deprive citizens of the United States of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions ;

provided, however, that as regards expenditure on travel or educatio.n abroad the transfer of funds by the Commission shall be subject to the foreign exchange regulations in force from time to time in the United Kingdom or to such special conditions as may be agreed between the Commission and the United Kingdom authorities.
The attendance of citizens of the United States at schools and insti-
tutions of higher learning located in the United Kingdom or the Colonial Dependencies shall not deprive citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions.
ARTICLE 4

The Commission may exercise all powers necessary for carrying out miPssoiwoenrs of the Com- . the above-mentioned purposes, including the following :-
(a ) Subject to the provisions of Articles 5 and 6, authorise the disbursement of the funds and the making of grants and advances therefrom .

(b) Plan, adopt, and carry out programmes.

(c) Recommend to the Board of Foreign Scholarships , provided for in the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 as amended, students, teachers , professors, research scholars , resident in the United Kingdom or the Colonial Dependencies, and institutions of the United Kingdom or the Colonial Dependencies qualified in the opinion of the Commission to participate in the programmes in accordance with the aforesaid Act.

60 Stat. 754. 50 U.S. C.app. §1641
(b) .

(d) Recommend to the aforesaid Board of Foreign Scholarships such qualifications for the selection of participants in the programmes as it may deem necessary.

( e) Provide for periodic audits of the accounts of the Commission as directed by auditors selected by the Secretary of State of the United States.

(f) Engage an Executive Officer, administrative and clerical staff and fix and authorize the payment of salaries and wages thereof out of the funds. ARTICLE 5

All expenditures authorized by the Commission shall be made in accordance with budgets to be approved by the Secretary of State of the United States pursuant to such regulations as he may prescribe.

Expenditures.

ARTICLE 6

The Commission shall not authorize any commitments or create any obligation in excess of the part of the funds actually placed at its disposal at the time of the authorization.
68706-52- PT. III -62

3580

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT

ARTICLE 7

Membership .

(a) The Commission shall consist of twelve members, seven of whom shall be citizens of the United States, five of whom shall be citi-

zens of the United Kingdom and Colonies.

(b) of the citizens of the United States a minimum of three shall

"Chief of Mission."

be officers of the United States Foreign Service establishment in the United Kingdom.
(c) The principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the

United States to the United Kingdom (hereinafter designated the

"Chief of Mission " ) shall be Honorary Chairman of the Commission.

Powers.

ARTICLE 8
(a ) The Chief of Mission shall have the power of appointment and removal of the United States citizens on the Commission.
(b) The members of the Commission who are citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies shall be nominated by the Chief of Mission from a list of names submitted to him by the Government of the United Kingdom, and shall be appointed by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom.
(c) The members of the Commission shall serve from the time of their appointment until one year from the following 31st December and shall be eligible for reappointment.
(d) Vacancies by reason of resignations, transfers or permanent residence outside of the United Kingdom or the Colonial Dependencies, expiration of terms of service, or otherwise , shall be filled in accordance with the procedure provided in paragraphs ( a) and (b) of this Article.
ARTICLE 9

Rules. Reports.

The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but the Commission may authorize the payment of necessary expenses of members in attending meetings of the Commission .
ARTICLE 10
The Commission shall adopt such rules and appoint such committees as it shall deem necessary for the conduct of the affairs of the Commission. All rules adopted by the Commission shall become effective upon approval by the Secretary of State of the United States and the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom.
ARTICLE 11
Reports acceptable in form and content to the Secretary of State of the United States and to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom shall be made annually on the activities of the Commission to the Secretary of State of the United States and the Government of the United Kingdom .

62 STAT. ] U. K.-U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION- SEPT. 22, 1948

3581

ARTICLE 12

The principal office of the Commission shall be in London : but the meetings of the Commission and any of its committees may be held in such other places as the Commission may from time to time determine , and the activities of any of the officers or staff of the Commission may be carried on at such places as may be approved by the Commission.

Principal office, etc.

ARTICLE 13
The Executive Officer shall be responsible for the direction and supervision of the programmes and activities of the Commission in accordance with the resolutions and directives of the Commission.

Executive Officer.

ARTICLE 14

In the present Agreement :

(a) The term "Secretary of State of the United States," wherever

"Secretary of State ofthe United States."

used, shall be understood to mean the Secretary of State of the

United States of America or any officer or employee of the

Government of the United States designated by him to act in his behalf ;
(b) The term "United Kingdom" shall mean the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the term "Colonial

"United Kingdom."

Dependencies" shall mean the territories to which the present

Agreement may have been extended under Article 17 ; and (c) The term "citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies" shall
mean (i ) citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies as de-

"Citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies."

fined in legislation in force in the United Kingdom from time

to time, and ( ii ) other persons belonging to the Colonial Dependencies.

ARTICLE 15

The present Agreement shall be reviewed by representatives of the contracting Governments before 31st December, 1951, and may be amended at any time by exchange of notes between the contracting Governments.

Review ; amend . ment.

ARTICLE 16

The present Agreement shall come into force upon the date of signature.
ARTICLE 17

Entry into force.

(a) The Government of the United Kingdom may at the time of signature or at any time thereafter by notification given to the Government of the United States declare that the present Agreement shall

Extension to certain territories.

extend to any of the territories for whose international relations it is

responsible, and the Agreement shall, from the date of receipt of the

notification, or from such other date as may be specified in the notification, extend to the territories named therein.

3582

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(b) The Government of the United Kingdom at any time may by notification given to the Government of the United States declare that the Agreement shall cease to extend to any territory named in the notification, and the Agreement shall from the date of receipt of the notification, or from such other date as may be specified therein, cease to extend to such territory.
In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.
Done at London in duplicate, this 22nd day of September, 1948.
For the Government of the United States of America : DON C. BLISS
For the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland : ERNEST BEVIN

Ante, p. 3578. 60 Stat. 1565.

The American Chargé d'Affaires to the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

SIR,

September 22, 1948. London.

I have the honor to propose that, notwithstanding Paragraph (A) of Article 2 of the Agreement signed this day between our two governments providing for the establishment of the United States Educational Commission in the United Kingdom in pursuance of certain of the provisions of Paragraph 6 of the Joint Statement regarding settlement for Lend-Lease, Reciprocal Aid, Surplus War Property and Claims made by our two governments on the 6th. December, 1945, deposit of the total sum in sterling mentioned in that paragraph shall be made by the government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in such amounts and at such times during the currency of the Agreement as the Government of the United States

may request. If the government of the United Kingdom are prepared to accept
this proposal , I have the honor to suggest that the present note and your reply shall be regarded as placing their acceptance on record.
I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient servant,

DON C. BLISS ,

Charge d'Affairs.

The Rt. Hon. ERNEST BEVIN, M. P., H. M. Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , Foreign Office, London.

62 STAT. ] U. K.-U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION- SEPT. 22, 1948

3583

The British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires

FOREIGN OFFICE

S. W. 1.

SIR,

22nd September, 1948.

In your note of today's date you proposed that, notwithstanding paragraph ( a ) of Article 2 of the Agreement signed this day be-

Ante, p. 3578.

tween our two Governments providing for the establishment of the United States Educational Commission in the United Kingdom in

pursuance of certain of the provisions of paragraph 6 of the Joint

Statement regarding Settlement for Lend-Lease, Reciprocal Aid , Sur-

plus War Property and Claims made by our two Governments on the

6th December, 1945, deposit of the total sum in sterling mentioned in

60 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1565.

that paragraph shall be made by the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in such amounts and at

such times during the currency of the Agreement as the Government of the United States may request.

2. In reply I have the honour to state that the Government of the United Kingdom accept this proposal, and agree to regard your note

and this reply as placing their acceptance on record. I have the honour to be, with high consideration, Sir, Your obedient Servant,

ERNEST BEVIN

Mr. DON C. BLISS , Jr.
etc., etc., etc., 1 Grosvenor Square, W. 1 .

3584

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT,

June 28, and July 8, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1872]

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a cooperative food production program in Peru, extending the agreement of May 19 and 20, 1943, as modified and extended . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima June 28 and July 8, 1948; entered into force July 9, 1948.

57 Stat. 1405.

The American Ambassador to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 1022

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Lima, June 28, 1948.

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Government of Peru and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs,

dated May 19 , 1943 , as later modified and extended , which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative food pro-

duction program in Peru. I also refer to Your Excellency's note of June 26 , 1948 [ ] suggesting the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement .
As Your Excellency knows, the Agreement of May 19 , 1943, as amended , provides that the cooperative food production program will terminate on June 30, 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both Governments are deriving from the program, my Govern-

ment agrees with the Government of Peru that an extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for
a period of one year, from June 30 , 1948 through June 30 , 1949. It would be understood that , during such period of extension the Institute would make a contribution of $ 100,000 in United States currency to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Producción de Alimentos for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of S/. 3,149,600 . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available an amount not
exceeding $ 200,000 United States currency to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio , for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Food Supply Field Staff who are maintained by the Institute in Peru. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, the Government of the United

1 Not printed.

June 28, 1948 62 STAT. ] PERU-FOOD PRODUCTION PROGRAM- July 8, 1948

3585

States of America will consider the present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature ['] of an agreement by the Minister of Agriculture of Peru and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
PRENTICE COOPER His Excellency
General ARMANDO REVOREDO IGLESIAS , Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

Entry into force.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

N: (D) 6-3/51

LIMA, 8 de julio de 1948.

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS:
Tengo a honra avisar recibo a Vuestra Señoría de la atenta nota de esa Embajada N° 1022 , de 28 de junio último , relativa a la prórroga del Programa Cooperativo de Producción de Alimentos hasta el 30 de junio de 1949 .
Cumplo con expresar a Vuestra Señoría que, debidamente consultado el Ministerio de Agricultura, éste me ha trasmitido su aprobación a las condiciones que para la prórroga se establecen en la nota de esa Embajada que contesto ; quedando , por tanto, el presente cambio de notas como un convenio entre ambos gobiernos para entrar en vigor en la fecha en que se suscriba la prórroga del Programa por el Ministro de Agricultura y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Señoría las seguridades de mi distinguida consideración.
A REVOREDO I

Al Honorable señor RICHARD M. DE LAMBERT, Encargado de Negocios a. i . de los Estados Unidos de América . Ciudad.-

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No: (D) 6-3/51

LIMA, July 8, 1948.

MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

I have the honor to acknowledge to you the receipt of your Em-

bassy's courteous note No. 1022 , dated June 28 , last , relative to the

¹1 July 9, 1948.

3586

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
extension of the Cooperative Food Production Program to June 30, 1949 .
I hereby inform you that, after I had duly consulted with the Ministry of Agriculture, that agency transmitted to me its approval of the conditions for such extension, as set forth in the note from your Embassy to which I reply. The present exchange of notes therefore constitutes an agreement between our two Governments, to come into force on the date on which the extension of the Program is signed by the Minister of Agriculture and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to you the assurances of my distinguished consideration.
A REVOREDO I
The Honorable RICHARD M. DE LAMBERT, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim ofthe United States of America, City. -

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES -DEC. 23, 1948

3587

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting duty-free entry and payment of transportation charges on reliefsupplies and packages for France. Signed at Paris December 23, 1948; entered into force December 23, 1948.

December 23, 1948 [T. I.A. S. 1873]

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
FRENCH REPUBLIC FOR FREE ENTRY AND FREE INLAND
TRANSPORTATION OF RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES

3588

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the French Republic , desirous of giving effect to Article VI, Paragraph 2, and Article IV, Paragraph 5 , of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between France and the United States of America, pp6.222S30t,a2t2.28. Pt . 2 , signed on June 28, 1948 , agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
DUTY-FREE ENTRY

The French Government shall accord duty-free entry into Metropolitan France of:

1. Supplies of Relief Goods and Standard Packs donated to or purchased by United States voluntary nonprofit relief agencies qualified under Economic Cooperation Administration (hereinafter referred to as ECA) regulations and consigned to such charitable organizations (including French branches of these agencies) , as have been or hereafter shall be approved by the French Government ;
2. Relief Packages from residents of the United States sent by parcel post or other commercial channels to individuals residing in Metropolitan France whether privately packed or by order placed with a commercial firm ;
3. Standard Packs put up by United States voluntary nonprofit relief agencies , or their agents , qualified under ECA regulations, for the account of persons residing in the United States and addressed to individuals residing in Metropolitan France.

ARTICLE II CONTENTS OF DUTY-FREE SHIPMENTS

1. Relief Packages and Standard Packs , as referred to in Article I , shall contain only non-perishable food ; clothing and shoes for every day use ; clothes-making and shoe-making materials ; mailable medical and health supplies the admission of which is permitted under French regulations and household supplies and utensils : expressly excluding
(a) tobacco , cigars and cigarettes (b) alcohol and alcoholic beverages (c) luxury clothing ; hides , furs, textiles of silk or nylon, gloves
or other articles of like nature

62 Stat., Pt. 1 , p . 137.

and , furthermore, any goods which are not qualified for ocean freight subsidy under the ECA act and regulations issued by the Administrator thereunder.

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES -DEC. 23, 1948

3589

Such Relief Packages and Standard Packs shall not exceed , in any case, 44 lbs . in weight and shall be intended only for the personal use of the addressee and his immediate family. 2. Relief Goods, as referred to in paragraph 1 of Article I , may include products and articles permitted in Relief Packages and Standard Packs and also, upon special authorization of the French Customs Administration at the request of the charitable organizations (including French branches of United States voluntary nonprofit relief agencies) to which such goods are consigned , may include any product or article which is not expressly specified in sub-paragraphs (a) , (b) , and (c) of paragraph 1 above.
ARTICLE III
FURTHER PROVISIONS REGARDING DUTY-FREE ENTRY 1. The French Government may limit the quantities of any product Limitation of quan-
tity. or article which may be included in any Relief Package or Standard Pack and the number of Relief Packages or Standard Packs which any one addressee may receive free of duty in any month . Relief Packages and Standard Packs containing quantities of any product or article in excess of such limitations or those for any one addressee in excess of the maximum monthly number or quantity so prescribed will not be entitled to duty-free entry. The French Government will give reasonable notice to the ECA Special Mission to France of any such proposed limitations .
2. Relief Packages, as referred to in paragraph 2 of Article I , must be accompanied by detailed description of contents and declaration of value and shall be labelled " U.S.A. Gift Parcel. "
3. Recipients of Relief Packages and Standard Packs must be able to furnish proof, at the request of the French Customs Administration, that no person residing in France has directly or indirectly made payment therefor in France or abroad .
4. The French Customs Administration may exclude from the benefit of this agreement all Relief Packages forwarded by commercial firms which accept unlawful settlement in payment therefor or which, in France , advertise or take other steps to obtain orders for Relief Packages to be paid for by French addressees .

ARTICLE IV

REIMBURSEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION COSTS

Costs of transportation in Metropolitan France (as defined in Paragraph 5 of Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement) of shipments which are accorded duty-free entry in accordance with the above provisions will be reimbursed under the following conditions :

62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 2228.

1. The cost of transportation of packages sent by United States parcel post will be computed by the French Postal Administration in conformity with the agreements, rules and regulations of

3590

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

62 Stat . , Pt. 2, p. 2227.
Ante, p. 3588.

the International Postal System in effect at the time of forwarding. Such costs will be reimbursed to the French Postal Administration out of the special account provided for in Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the Special Account) and no claim for such costs will be made against the United States Government. 2. The cost of transportation of Relief Goods and Standard Packs despatched from the United States by any normal commercial channel and forwarded in France to the final addressee by an agent (approved by the shipper and by the French Government) by means of a French public or contract carrier or by other means of transport arranged by such agent will be reimbursed to suc.h agent by the French Government out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.
3. The cost of transportation of Relief Goods and Standard Packs as referred to in paragraph 1 of Article I dispatched from a country other than the United States by any normal commercial channel and forwarded in France to the final addressee by an agent (approved by the shipper and by the French Government) by means of a French public or contract carrier (other than the French Postal Administration) or by other means of transport arranged by such agent will be reimbursed to such agent by the French Government out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.
4. If, in the case of any such shipments as are referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 next preceding, the carrier, by arrangement with
the shipper or such agent, has forwarded such shipments without requiring payment of the cost of transportation , the French Government will reimburse the carrier for the cost thereof out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation , including verification by such agent.

ARTICLE V

AUDITING OF REIMBURSEMENTS

Monthly statements.

The French Government, when reimbursements provided for in

Article IV have been made, will submit to the ECA Special Mission

to France, with a copy to the Controller, ECA Washington, monthly

statements of the amounts so expended , in form mutually satisfac-

tory to the French Government and said Mission. Each such state-

ment shall at least show the total weight carried and the charges

therefor, and adjustments shall be made to the Special Account if shown to be required by ECA audit.

ARTICLE VI PERIOD OF AGREEMENT This agreement shall come into effect 1. Immediately, insofar as the provisions with regard to duty-free entry are concerned ;

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-DEC. 23, 1948

3591

2. As of June 28 , 1948 , insofar as the provisions for the reimbursement of costs of transportation of Relief Goods and Standard Packs as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 of Article I are concerned ; and immediately insofar as the provisions for the reimbursement of costs of transportation of Relief Packages as referred to in paragraph 2 of Article I are concerned ;

Ante, p. 3588.

and shall remain in force , subject to such prior termination or modifi-

cation as may be agreed upon between the Government of the United

States and the Government of France, for the same period as the

62 Stat . , Pt . 2 ,

Economic Cooperation Agreement of June 28 , 1948 .

p. 2223.

In witness thereof the respective plenipotentiaries have affixed their

signatures and seals to the present agreement . Done , at Paris , in duplicate, in the English and French languages ,

Authentic texts.

both texts authentic , this 23d day of December, 1948 .

For the Government of the United States
of America

For the Government of the
French Republic

JEFFERSON CAFFERY [ SEAL] DAVID K. E. BRUCE. [SEAL]

SCHUMAN [SEAL]

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- DEC. 23, 1948

3593

ACCORD
ENTRE LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA{REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE ET LE
GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS- UNIS D'AMERIQUE RELATIF A L'ENTREE
EN FRANCHISE ET AU TRANSPORT INTERIEUR GRATUIT DES
APPROVISIONNEMENTS ET PAQUETS DE SECOURS

3594

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Le Gouvernement de la République Française et le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique , désireux de donner application aux Articles VI (paragraphe 2 ) et IV (paragraphe 5 ) de l'Accord de Coopération Economique entre la France et les Etats-Unis signé le 28 Juin 1948, sont convenus de ce qui suit:
ARTICLE I
EXONERATION DES DROITS DE DOUANE
Le Gouvernement français accordera l'entrée en franchise sur le territoire de la France métropolitaine:
1º) aux approvisionnements de secours et aux colis-type donnés à des entreprises américaines charitables dûment qualifiées en vertu des règlements de l'Administration de Coopération Economique (appelée ci-après ECA) ou achetés par elles et adressés à des organisations charitables (y compris les branches françaises des entreprises susvisées) qui ont été ou seront ultérieurement agréées par le Gouvernement français .
2º) aux paquets de secours provenant de particuliers résidant aux Etats-Unis et expédiés par colis postal ou par d'autres voies commerciales à des personnes résidant en France métropolitaine qu'ils soient confectionnés par ces particuliers ou expédiés sur leur commande par une maison de commerce ;
3º) aux colis-type confectionnés pour le compte de particuliers résidant aux Etats-Unis pardes entreprises américaines charitables ou par leurs agents , dûment qualifiés en vertu des règlements de l'E.c.A. et adressés à des personnes résidant en France métropolitaine.
ARTICLE II
CONTENU DES ENVOIS EXONERES
1°) Les paquets de secours et les colis type visés à l'Article I devront contenir seulement des produits alimentaires non périssables , des vêtements ou des chaussures d'usage courant ou des produits pouvant servir à les confectionner, des produits médicaux et d'hygiène susceptibles d'être expédiés par poste et dont l'entrée est autorisée par les règlements français, ainsi que des produits et ustensiles de ménage.
En sont exclus:
- expressément: a) les tabacs, cigares et cigarettes , b) les alcools et les boissons alcoolisées, c) les vêtements de luxe , les peaux, les fourrures , les textiles de soie ou de nylon, les gants ou autres articles de même nature.

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- DEC. 23, 1948
- d'une façon générale : toutes les marchandises dont le transport par mer n'est pas susceptible d'être subventionné en vertu de la loi de l'Eca et des règlements édictés par l'Administrateur à ce titre .
Ces paquets de secours et ces colis type ne dépasseront en aucun cas un poids de 44 livres anglaises .
Ils devront être destinés uniquement à l'usage personnel du destinataire et de ses proches.
2º) Les approvisionnements de secours visés à l'Article I, paragraphe (1) pourront comprendre tous les produits et articles autorisés dans les colis de secours et les colis-type.
En outre, ils pourront comprendre sur autorisation spéciale accordée par l'Administration française des Douanes, à la demande des organisations charitables bénéficiaires (y compris les branches françaises des entreprises américaines ) tous produits et articles qui ne sont pas visés aux alinéas (a) (b) et (c) du paragraphe (1º) ci-dessus .
ARTICLE III
AUTRES DISPOSITIONS CONCERNANT L'ENTREE EN FRANCHISE
1º) Le Gouvernement français pourra règlementer les quantités de chaque produit ou article susceptibles d'être comprises dans chaque paquet de secours et colis-type qu'un même destinataire pourra recevoir en franchise par mois. Les paquets de secours et colis-type contenant un produit ou article en quantité supérieure aux limites prévues ou ceux envoyés à un destinataire en nombre ou en quantité excédant le maximum mensuel prévu ne bénéficieront pas de l'admission en franchise .
Le Gouvernement français donnera un préavis raisonnable à la Mission spéciale de l'E.c.A . en France de toute règlementation qu'il envisagera de prendre en application du présent paragraphe.
2º) Les paquets de secours visés à l'article I paragraphe 2 seront obligatoirement accompagnés d'une description détaillée du contenu ainsi que d'une déclaration de valeur et seront étiquetés en anglais "colis don des Etats-Unis".
3º) Les bénéficiaires des paquets de secours et des colis-type devront pouvoir faire la preuve, à la requête de l'Administration française des Douanes, qu'aucune personne résidant en France n'a fait directement ou indirectement de paiement à ce titre, soit en France, soit à l'étranger.
4°) L'Administration française des Douanes pourra exclure du bénéfice de cet accord tous paquets de secours expédiés par les maisons de commerce qui accepteraient en paiement des règlements illicites ou qui feraient en France de la publicité ou du démarchage pour recueillir des commandes de paquets de secours payables par des destinataires français .

3595

3596

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

ARTICLE IV
REMBOURSEMENT DES FRAIS DE TRANSPORT
Les frais de transport en France métropolitaine (tels qu'ils sont définis au paragraphe 5 de l'article IV de l'Accord de Coopération Economique) des envois exonérés en vertu des dispositions ci-dessus seront remboursés dans les conditions suivantes:

1°) Les frais de transport des envois expédiés des Etats-Unis par

colis postal seront calculés par l'Administration française des Postes conformément aux accords, dispositions et règlements du système postal international en vigueur au moment de l'expédition . Ils lui seront remboursés par le débit du compte spécial prévu à l'Article IV de l'Accord de Coopération Economique appelé ci-après compte spécial

et aucune réclamation afférente à ces frais ne pourra être adressée au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis .

2º) Les frais de transport des approvisionnements de secours et

des colis-type dont l'expédition est assurée au départ des Etats-Unis par une voie commerciale normale quelconque, et qui en France sont acheminés jusqu'au destinataire final par les soins d'un agent agréé

de l'expéditeur et du Gouvernement français ayant traité avec un transporteur français public ou contractuel ou organisant lui-même le

transport seront remboursés par le Gouvernement français au dit agent par le débit du compte spécial au vu des pièces adéquates .
3º) Les frais de transport des approvisionnements de secours et des colis-type visés au paragraphe (1 ) de l'Article I , dont l'expédition est

assurée au départ d'un pays autre que les Etats-Unis par une voie commerciale normale quelconque, et qui en France sont acheminés

jusqu'au destinataire final par les soins d'un agent agréé de l'expéditeur et du Gouvernement français ayant traité avec un transporteur français public ou contractuel (à l'exclusion de l'Administration

française des Postes) ou organisant lui-même le transport seront

remboursés par le Gouvernement français au dit agent par le débit du

compte spécial au vu des pièces adéquates . 4º) Dans les cas visés aux paragraphes 2º) et 3º) ci-dessus, si aux

termes d'un accord avec l'expéditeur ou son agent, le transporteur a

acheminé les envois sans faire payer les frais correspondants, le

Gouvernement français remboursera le dit transporteur par le débit

du compte spécial et au vu des pièces adéquates visées par l'agent

agréé.

ARTICLE V

CONTROLE DES REMBOURSEMENTS

Le Gouvernement français , lorsque seront effectués les remboursements prévus à l'article IV, présentera à la Mission spéciale de l'E.C.A. en France dans une forme satisfaisante à la fois pour le Gouvernement français et pour la Mission un état mensuel des sommes ainsi dépensées dont une copie sera adressée au Contrôleur de l'E.c.A. à Washington. Chacun de ces états indiquera au moins le poids total

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- DEC. 23, 1948

transporté et les frais correspondants. Si les vérifications effectuées par l'E.c.a. en montrent la nécessité, les écritures du compte spécial seront modifiées en conséquence.

ARTICLE VI

DUREE DE LA CONVENTION

Cette convention entrera en vigueur:

1 ) immédiatement en ce qui concerne les dispositions relatives à l'admission en franchise.
2 ) A la date du 28 Juin 1948, en ce qui concerne les dispositions relatives au remboursement des frais de transport des approvisionnements de secours et colis- type visés aux paragraphes ( 1 ) et (3 ) de l'Article I, et immédiatement en ce qui concerne les dispositions relatives au paiement des frais de transport des paquets de secours visés au paragraphe (2) de l'Article I.

Elle restera en vigueur, sous réserve de toute terminaison anticipée ou de toute modification sur lesquelles le Gouvernement de la République française et le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis pourront se mettre d'accord, pour la même durée que l'Accord de Coopération Economique du 28 Juin 1948.
En foi de quoi les Plénipotentiaires respectifs ont signé le présent Accord et y ont apposé leurs sceaux.
Fait en double exemplaire, en langues française et anglaise, les deux textes faisant également foi ,
à PARIS, le 23 Décembre 1948

Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique :
JEFFERSON CAFFERY [SEAL] DAVID K. E. BRUCE. [SEAL]

Pour le Gouvernement de la République Française: SCHUMAN [SEAL]

3597

3598

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

September 30, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1874]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting allocations offerrous scrap for export . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington September 30, 1948 ; entered into force September 30, 1948 .

The British Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

BRITISH EMBASSY,

No. 518 Ref. 1652/152/48

WASHINGTON, D. C. September 30th, 1948.

SIR,

I have the honour to refer to the discussions which have taken place between representatives of His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom and the Government of the United States of America on

the subject of ferrous scrap exports, and to inform you that the matters agreed upon in the course of these discussions have received the

approval of my Government. These matters are set forth in the following Memorandum :-

MEMORANDUM ON FERROUS SCRAP

Post, p. 3600.

I. Proposal to OEEC Countries on Allocation Machinery
A proposal will be put before the members of the Organization of European Economic Cooperation that an ad hoc Committee be established in Paris consisting of representatives of OEEC members and the United States as a full member. It is proposed that this Committee, although outside the jurisdiction of the OEEC Council, should work in close cooperation with it and its committees. The functions of the Committee shall be to make recommendations to the Governments of the countries participating in the OEEC, including the Bizonal Area of Germany and the French Zone, on the distribution of scrap exports from those countries. Final decisions with respect to exports will be made, however, by the Governments of the exporting countries. In the Bizonal Area decisions will be made by the
U.S. and U.K. Military Governors, subject to the provisions of Article III of this Agreement.
II. Instructions to Military Governors
Identical instructions shall be sent to the U.S. and U.K. Military Governors in Germany as follows : -
1. It is the desire of the Governments of the United States and United Kingdom that the total collection and export of scrap from the Bizonal Area, after providing for the legitimate requirements of the German steel industry, be maximized.

62 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-FERROUS SCRAP- SEPT . 30, 1948
Initial Authorizations Outside of Future Allocations 2. The existing authorization (approved May 13, 1948 ) of 600,000
tons (namely 200,000 tons to the United States, 300,000 tons to the United Kingdom and 100,000 tons to other countries ) is confirmed .
3. In addition there will be the following supplementary authorizations :-
( a) 100,000 tons to the United States, to bring the United States share to parity with the above-mentioned United Kingdom share of 300,000 tons ;
(b) 75,000 tons to the United Kingdom as a final shipment of booty scrap without payment ;
(c) 75,000 tons to the United States, to correspond to ( b) above, but not free of payment.
4. The above total authorizations of 375,000 tons to the United States, 375,000 tons to the United Kingdom and 100,000 tons to other countries shall not be charged to future allocations, and the two Military Governors shall implement these authorizations immediately.
Export Availabilities from Bizonal Area 5. The U.S. and U.K. Military Governors shall inform the ad hoc
Committee, promptly after its establishment and from time to time thereafter, of the anticipated volume of scrap exports from the Bizonal Area. It is hoped that this figure for the year ending October 1 , 1949, will be 1,000,000 tons or more, over and above the 850,000 tons authorized above outside of future allocations.
Interim Authorizations Chargeable against Future Allocations 6. As an advance against contemplated early allocations within the
framework of the regular allocating procedure, there shall also be authorized a further 125,000 tons to the United States, 125,000 tons to the United Kingdom and 125,000 tons to other countries, such quantities to be charged against future allocations. The two Military Governors shall also implement these authorizations immediately.
7. In the event that no recommendation is made by the ad hoc Committee before October 31 , 1948, further interim authorizations shall be made on that date and on the last day of each month thereafter in the ratio of 2-2-1 for the United States, United Kingdom and other countries respectively, until such time as the regular allocation procedure is in operation.
Implementation of Allocations 8. In implementing this Agreement, the U.S. and U.K. Military
Governors shall determine among other matters : -
( a ) whether to implement allocations by control over contracts or control over exports or both ;
(b) whether, if control over exports is adopted , the Joint ExportImport Agency may approve contracts within agreed limitations in excess of the total outstanding allocations of any country ;

3599

3600

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

(c) whether, in appropriate cases, contracts shall provide for delivery of scrap within specified short periods in order to prevent undue tying up of allocations in individual long-term contracts ;
(d) whether and in what manner to instruct JEIA to take precautions to satisfy itself as to the competence of contracting parties to implement the terms of the contract.
Effective Date of Foregoing Authorizations 9. All scrap exported subsequent to the date of this Agreement shall
be charged against the foregoing authorizations. Booty Scrap
10. There shall be no further exports of booty scrap after the date of this Agreement except for the 75,000 tons authorized under paragraph II 3 ( b) above. Price
11. The price of scrap with appropriate differentials for loading points, quality of scrap , etc. , shall be uniform for all foreign buyers, and shall be set from time to time by the U.S. and U.K. Military Governors under such procedures as they may establish. Special Measures
12. If the U.S. and U.K. Military Governors consider that adequate quantities of exportable scrap cannot be obtained without special measures, they are authorized to approve the recovery of scrap by such measures. Scrap recovery under such arrangements, if approved, may be outside regular allocations but subject to such special allocations as the U.S. and U.K. Military Governors may determine after consultation with the ad hoc Committee.
Direct Recovery of Scrap 13. Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude operations by non-
German organizations for the recovery of scrap from disarmament and other sources not readily accessible to German scrap merchants provided such operations are carried on in a manner acceptable to the U.S. and U.K. Military Governors and that all recoveries of scrap (other than the 75,000 tons of booty scrap mentioned above) are paid for at prices established by the U.S. and U.K. Military Governors and are within either the regular or the special allocations determined by the U.S. and U.K. Military Governors.
U.S.-U.K. Scrap Control Authority
14. The U.S. and U.K. Military Governors shall set up a U.S.-U.K. scrap control authority in which each shall appoint a coordinator to supervise and control the collection and export of ferrous scrap. This control authority shall be subject, through whatever organization the Military Governors may determine, to the jurisdiction of the Bipartite Board.

III. Reservation of Fusion Agreement

61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , p. 2475.

Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to modify the arrangements set forth in the Fusion Agreement of December 2 , 1946 as

62 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-FERROUS SCRAP- SEPT. 30, 1948

3601

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , amended by the Agreement of December 17, 1947. Questions p. 3608.
which may arise with respect to scrap exports under the present

Agreement will be resolved as contemplated in paragraph 5 of the

Agreement of December 17, 1947, having regard also to the provisions

of paragraph 3 ( a ) of the latter Agreement.

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, pp. 3612, 3610.

Upon receipt of a note from you indicating your Government's approval of the terms of the above Memorandum, my Government will consider that this note and your reply constitute an Agreement between the two Governments effective from the date of your reply.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurance of my highest consideration.
OLIVER FRANKS.
The Honourable ROBERT A. LOVETT,
Acting Secretary of State, United States Department of State, Washington, D. C.

The Acting Secretary of State to the British Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON
September 30, 1948 EXCELLENCY :
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 518 of September 30, 1948 proposing that an Agreement be entered into between the Government of the United States of America and His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom on the subject of ferrous scrap exports. The terms of the proposed Agreement are set forth in the following Memorandum :

Ante, p. 3598.

MEMORANDUM ON FERROUS SCRAP

I. Proposal to OEEC Countries on Allocation Machinery
A proposal will be put before the members of the Organization of European Economic Cooperation that an ad hoc Committee be established in Paris consisting of representatives of OEEC members and the United States as a full member. It is proposed that this Committee, although outside the jurisdiction of the OEEC Council , should work in close cooperation with it and its committees. The functions of the Committee shall be to make recommendations to the Govern-
ments of the countries participating in the OEEC, including the Bizonal Area of Germany and the French Zone, on the distribution of scrap exports from those countries. Final decisions with respect to exports will be made , however , by the Governments of the exporting countries. In the Bizonal Area decisions will be made by the US and

Ad hoc Committee.

3602

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Post, p. 3604.

UK Military Governors subject to the provisions of Article III of this Agreement.
II. Instructions to Military Governors

Identical instructions shall be sent to the US and UK Military Governors in Germany as follows :

1. It is the desire of the Governments of the United States and the United Kingdom that the total collection and export of scrap from the Bizonal Area, after providing for the legitimate requirements of the German steel industry , be maximized.

Initial Authorizations Outside of Future Allocations

2. The existing authorization (approved May 13 , 1948 ) of 600,000

tons (namely 200,000 tons to the United States, 300,000 tons to the

Supplementary authorizations .

United Kingdom, and 100,000 tons to other countries) is confirmed . 3. In addition there shall be the following supplementary
authorizations :

(a) 100,000 tons to the United States, to bring the United States share to parity with the above-mentioned United Kingdom share of 300,000 tons ;
(b) 75,000 tons to the United Kingdom as a final shipment of booty scrap without payment ;
(c) 75,000 tons to the United States, to correspond to (b) above, but not free of payment.
4. The above total authorizations of 375,000 tons to the United States, 375,000 tons to the United Kingdom, and 100,000 tons to other countries shall not be charged to future allocations, and the two Military Governors shall implement these authorizations immediately.
Export Availabilities from the Bizonal Area 5. The US and UK Military Governors shall inform the ad hoc
Committee, promptly after its establishment and from time to time thereafter, of the anticipated volume of scrap exports from the Bizonal Area. It is hoped that this figure for the year ending October 1, 1949 will be 1,000,000 tons or more , over and above the 850,000 tons authorized above outside of future allocations.
Interim Authorizations Chargeable Against Future Allocations 6. As an advance against contemplated early allocations within the
framework of the regular allocating procedure, there shall also be authorized a further 125,000 tons to the United States, 125,000 tons to the United Kingdom, and 125,000 tons to other countries , such quantities to be charged against future allocations. The two Military Governors shall also implement these authorizations immediately.
7. In the event that no recommendation is made by the ad hoc Committee before October 31 , 1948, further interim authorizations shall be made on that date and on the last day of each month thereafter in the ratio of 2-2-1 for the United States, the United Kingdom, and

62 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- FERROUS SCRAP-SEPT. 30, 1948

3603

other countries, respectively, until such time as the regular allocation procedure is in operation.

Implementation of Allocations 8. In implementing this Agreement, the US and UK Military
Governors shall determine among other matters :

(a) whether to implement allocations by control over contracts or control over exports or both ;
(b) whether, if control over exports is adopted , the Joint ExportImport Agency may approve contracts within agreed limitations in excess of the total outstanding allocations of any country ;
(c ) whether, in appropriate cases, contracts shall provide for delivery of scrap within specified short periods in order to prevent undue tying up of allocations in individual long-term contracts ;
(d ) whether and in what manner to instruct JEIA to take precautions to satisfy itself as to the competence of contracting parties to implement the terms of the contract.
Effective Date of Foregoing Authorizations 9. All scrap exported subsequent to the date of this Agreement
shall be charged against the foregoing authorizations.
Booty Scrap 10. There shall be no further exports of booty scrap after the date
of this Agreement except for the 75,000 tons authorized under paragraph II-3- (b) above. Price

11. The price of scrap with appropriate differentials for loading points, quality of scrap , etc. , shall be uniform for all foreign buyers, and shall be set from time to time by the US and UK Military Governors under such procedures as they may establish.
Special Measures
12. If the US and UK Military Governors consider that adequate quantities of exportable scrap cannot be obtained without special measures, they are authorized to approve the recovery of scrap by such measures. Scrap recovery under such arrangements , if approved , may be outside regular allocations but subject to such special allocations as the US and UK Military Governors may determine after consultation with the ad hoc Committee.

Scrap recovery.

Direct Recovery of Scrap
13. Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude operations by nonGerman organizations for the recovery of scrap from disarmament and other sources not readily accessible to German scrap merchants provided such operations are carried on in a manner acceptable to the US and UK Military Governors and that all recoveries of scrap (other than the 75,000 tons of booty scrap mentioned above) are paid
68706-52- PT. 111-63

3604

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

for at prices established by the US and UK Military Governors and are within either the regular or the special allocations determined by the US and UK Military Governors.
US-UK Scrap Control Authority 14. The US and UK Military Governors shall set up a US-UK scrap
control authority in which each shall appoint a coordinator to supervise and control the collection and export of ferrous scrap. This control authority shall be subject, through whatever organization the Military Governors may determine, to the jurisdiction of the Bipartite Board.

III. Reservation of Fusion Agreement

61 Stat . , Pt 3, p. 2475.
p.631608S.tat . , Pt . 4 ,

Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to modify the arrangements set forth in the Fusion Agreement of December 2, 1946 as amended by the Agreement of December 17, 1947. Questions which may arise with respect to scrap exports under the present Agreement

will be resolved as contemplated in paragraph 5 of the Agreement

of December 17, 1947, having regard also to the provisions of sub-

61 Stat., Pt . 4 , pp. 3612, 3610.
Effective date.

paragraph 3 ( a ) of the latter Agreement. This proposal and the foregoing Memorandum are acceptable to the

Government of the United States of America. As proposed in Your

Excellency's note, therefore, your note and the present reply are re-

garded as constituting an Agreement between the two Governments, effective on the date of this note.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
ROBERT A. LOVETT

Acting Secretary of State

His Excellency The Right Honorable Sir OLIVER SHEWELL FRANKS, K.C.B. , C.B.E. , British Ambassador.

Jan. 26, 1948 62 STAT. ] ECUADOR- AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION- Apr. 16, 1948

3605

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting an agricultural experiment station in Ecuador, superseding the memorandum of understanding of August 12, 1942. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Quito January 26 and April 16, 1948 ; entered into force April 16, 1948.

January 26, and! April 16, 1948
(T. I. A. S. 1875

The American Ambassador to the Ecuadoran Ministerfor Foreign Affairs

No. 26

QUITO, January 26, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

With reference to conversations between representatives of the

Government of the United States of America and representatives of the Government of Ecuador with regard to the desirability of completing the establishment and continuing the operation of a coopera-

tive agricultural station in Ecuador , I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of America is prepared to give effect to an agreement in the following terms :

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR REGARDING THE ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF A COOPERATIVE AGRICULTURAL STATION IN ECUADOR
Ecuadoran Agricul In conformity with the desire of the Government of Ecuador that tural Station. the Government of the United States of America continue to cooperate

with the Government of Ecuador in completing the establishment and continuing the operation of an agricultural station program in Ecuador, henceforth known as the Ecuadoran Agricultural Station (hereinafter referred to as the Station) , for the purpose of promoting the produc-

tion of basic and strategic agricultural products, the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Ecuador have

reached the following understanding:

1. The general functions of the Station shall continue to be : (a)

Functions of Station.

agronomic production investigations necessary to permanent agricul-

ture in Ecuador with complementary products, particularly cacao,

rubber, barbasco, pyrethrum, and cinchona as cash crops ; (b) assistance in the establishment of approved agricultural practices by agri-

cultural extension work as liaison between the Station and private farmers ; (c) the propagation of planting material for distribution to farmers ; (d) cooperation with other agricultural institutions of the Western Hemisphere in the promotion of tropical agriculture through consultation and exchange of propagating material, scientific information, and personnel ; and (e) cooperation with public health , colonization, and agricultural rehabilitation agencies of the United States of America, Ecuador, and the Western Hemisphere in the development of agriculture in Ecuador.

3606

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Availability of Ecuadoran land, etc. 2. The Government of Ecuador will make available all land neces-
sary to conduct investigations and demonstration work designed (a)

to promote the profitable production of agricultural crops , with special

emphasis on such export crops as cacao, rubber , fibers, insecticides,

medicinals, and vegetable oils , and (b) to increase the income and

Tropical Agricul-

tural Station.

foreign trade of the people of Ecuador. The Government of Ecuador

shall continue to make available all lands described in Circular No.

435 , dated October 18 , 1946 , of the Ministry of Economy, whereby a certain block of land was transferred to the Station from the Hacienda

Pichilingue, which shall hereinafter be known as the Tropical Agricultural Station of Ecuador. The Station shall also continue to use, as

long as deemed necessary, the properties known as La Favorita

Use of funds. Post, p. 3608.

(Saloya) and Granja Escolar de Tumbaco . Such other lands as may be necessary shall be assigned to the Station, provided the Government of Ecuador considers it feasible, upon request of the Station Director .
3. It is agreed that all products derived from experimental and demonstrational plots and from other sources within the properties

of the Station shall be the property of the Station and may be used or

disposed of at the discretion of the Station Director . All funds

Types of publications; services.
Post, p. 3609.

derived from such disposal shall be used to help defray the expenses of the Station program.
4. The Government of Ecuador shall also supply the funds necessary for (a) the preparation, printing , and distribution of four types

of publications to be issued by the Station, as follows :

(1 ) popular Spanish circulars or articles written for the farm family by the staff and other qualified persons on such subjects as health, hygiene, community organization , information on the Pacific region , aims of the Station , treatment of agricultural practices and methodology ;
(2 ) farm circulars written in Spanish and issued as required, dealing with specific farm practices or products ;
(3) technical bulletins in English or Spanish dealing with the results of specific scientific investigations by the Station ; and
(4) an annual report in Spanish, covering the work of the Station performed during the year, and the status of agriculture in the region;

(b) the services of Ecuadoran scientists to cooperate with each

scientist detailed to the Station by the United States Department of

Agriculture, and the services , as needed , of technologists qualified in the fields of land-surveying, topography, drainage, drafting, minor

construction, chemical analysis, and library management ; (c) ste-

nographers , clerks, mechanics , machinists, field plot and laboratory

assistants, and such unskilled labor as may be necessary to conduct the work of the Station ; and (d) the transportation expense incurred

by United States and Ecuadoran members of the staff for travel on

Station business within Ecuador.

Duty-free entry for supplies, equipment,

5. The Government of Ecuador shall provide :

etc.

(a) entry free of custom duties for

Jan. 26, 1948 62 STAT. ] ECUADOR- AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION- Apr. 16, 1948

3607

(1 ) supplies and equipment for the Station , and

(2) supplies , clothes , foodstuffs, and personal belongings of the

United States members of the Station staff whose salaries are paid

by the Government of the United States ;

(b) exemption from all Ecuadoran taxes based upon salaries for those

Exemption from taxes.

United States members of the Station staff whose salaries are paid by

the Government of the United States of America ; and (c) when

possible, Ecuadoran students in graduate study in various fields of

agriculture in colleges or universities in the United States, who will

return to Ecuador to work in the agricultural development program

of their Government. 6. With reference to the Tropical Agricultural Station of Ecuador,
the Government of Ecuador agrees (a) to construct or complete

Construction of buildings, etc.

( 1 ) residences complete with furnishings for the United States and Ecuadoran members of the staff,
(2) houses for the Station laborers and semi-technical force , (3) a hospital, with complete furnishings , services, and equipment (it is recommended that this hospital should be taken over by some other agency of the Government of Ecuador and operated to serve the entire region) , and (4) service buildings, including repair shops and adequate buildings for storage of equipment and plant material, and
(b) to provide (1) such buildings as may be needed for studies in livestock
production and the housing of pilot plants for processing agricultural production for shipment ,
(2) an adequate pump for providing a plentiful water supply, (3) an electric plant adequate to satisfy the lighting and power needs of the Station, (4) recreational facilities, including tennis courts and a football field and other facilities , and (5) a graduate medical doctor and nurse for the hospital.

Facilities, etc.

It is agreed that every effort shall be made by the Government of Ecuador to complete the above building program on or before December 31 , 1948. Funds for the above purposes shall not come from the regular operational budget of the Station , but shall be provided for separately, since these are obligations which have been assumed from the Ecuadoran Development Corporation by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of the Treasury, by Executive Decree number 1526-a , of July 31 , 1946 (Registro Oficial number 663 , of August 19 , 1946 ) . An estimate of the necessary expenditures under this paragraph is attached hereto . These funds shall be assigned to the Station, which shall direct and administer the above provisions.
7. It is declared that all constructions , machinery, vehicles , labora-
tories, tools, equipment, and any other properties , produce, or other materials, heretofore acquired for the use of or by reason of the operation of the Station , including such property acquired as the result of contribution of the three signatories to the Memorandum of Under-

Post, p. 3610.

3608

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

56 Stat. 1787. Post, p. 3610.

standing dated August 12 , 1942 (which , in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 17 hereof, is superseded by the present

Memorandum of Understanding) , shall be exclusively available to the

Station during the life of the present Memorandum of Understanding.

It is likewise declared that the properties , laboratories, and other

materials , which are at present in the possession of the Station , shall

be available for the exclusive use of the Station during the life of the

Ownership and disposal of property.
Ante, p. 3606.

present Memorandum of Understanding . 8. No property which is now in the possession of the Station, or
which at any future time shall come into its possession, except as provided in paragraph 3 of the present Memorandum of Under-

standing, may be disposed of or sold to any private or public institu-

tion or to any individual, until such property has been declared by

the Station Director to be surplus property , and then the method of

sale or disposal must be in accordance with the regulations of the Government which holds title to the said property. The ownership

of all properties and equipment of the Station shall pass to the Depart-

ment of Agriculture of the Government of Ecuador at such time as

the present Memorandum of Understanding is legally terminated ,

except that the equipment belonging to and provided by the Govern-

ment of the United States of America shall remain the property of that Government to be disposed of according to its rules and regula-

Post, p. 3609.

tions pertaining thereto . 9. The Government of Ecuador also agrees to provide (a) agricul-
tural publications necessary to the proper functioning of the Station, including reference books, and journals and bulletins published outside the United States, as well as the binding of journals , et cetera, (b) necessary launches and vehicles for water and land transportation, (c) all equipment and machinery and repair parts, except those to be furnished by the United States of America in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 11 , and (d) the purchase of seed and planting stock for experimental and commercial use.
10. The Government of the United States of America and the

Government of Ecuador mutually agree that all nonexpendable prop-

erty purchased for the use of the Station shall be received and re-

ceipted for by (a) the United States Director of the Station or a

United States technician designated by him, for purchases made with funds of the Government of the United States of America, and (b)

the ranking Ecuadoran employee of the Station for purchases made

with funds of the Government of Ecuador.

Services, etc., provided by U. S.

11. The Government of the United States of America , through the

United States Department of Agriculture , and subject to the avail-

ability of funds for the purpose, agrees to provide (a) the services of scientists to perform the functions of direction of the Station and

agronomic investigation , (b) current scientific journals on plant and animal science published in the United States of America , (c) scien-

tific equipment not produced or manufactured in Ecuador for use by

the agronomic laboratories , and (d) assistance in designing all build-

ings, including residences for the United States and Ecuadoran members of the staff .

62 STAT. ]

ECUADOR- AGRICULTURAL

EXPERIMENT

Jan. 26, 1948 STATION--

Apr. 16, 1948

3609

12. The Government of the United States of America and the Government of Ecuador mutually agree:

(a) In order to provide joint supervision over the cooperative CoAmgmriicsuslitourna.l Station

aspects of the project and in order to furnish a ready means for consultation between the two Governments in regard thereto , there shall be established an Agricultural Station Commission of two members , consisting of one representative of the United States Department of Agriculture and the Director or Acting Director of the Department of Agriculture of Ecuador ; that the Commission , subject to the approval of the Government of Ecuador, shall have authority to establish the qualifications and propose candidates for positions at the Station ; that the Commission may delegate to the Director of the Station such of its functions as it may deem fit .
Transportation , (b) The Government of the United States of America shall allowances, etc. , furfurnish transportation to and from Ecuador for the United States nished by U. S. scientists and their families and for their household equipment , and shall furnish them certain living allowances, and certain laboratory equipment and periodicals published in the United States of America. Exclusive of the salaries of the scientists made available to

the Station by the United States Department of Agriculture , the expenses listed above shall not exceed $ 25,000 in any one fiscal year after the date of entry into force of this Memorandum of Understanding .
(c) The obligation of the Government of the United States of America to furnish the supplies listed under (b) and (c) of paragraph 11 shall be contingent upon the availability of such supplies in the United States of America.
(d) In conformity with paragraphs 4 and 9 the Government of Ecuador, through the Department of Agriculture, Ministry of Economy, shall make available to the Station annually the necessary funds for the operation of all its services, including payment of

Annual budget. Ante, pp. 3606, 3608,

salaries and payment of per diem and travel expenses within and outside the country to the technical and clerical Ecuadoran members of the staff while traveling on official business of the Station , wages to unskilled labor, travel expenses within the country to United States members of the staff exclusive of per diem while on official business of the Station, purchase in Ecuador or abroad of machinery, vehicles, agricultural tools , construction materials , and any other equipment not furnished by the Government of the United States of America in accordance with this Memorandum of

Understanding . The amount budgeted for the fiscal year 1948 shall be 840,000 sucres (Ecuadoran currency) and the amount

budgeted shall be no less than this amount for any one fiscal year during the time in which this Memorandum of Understanding remains in force, plus an annual increase which shall be allocated by the Ministry of Economy in accordance with the increase of the

Station program, the increase of living and material costs, and as recommended by the Station Director and agreed upon by the

3610

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Agricultural Station Commission . This annual budget shall include the amount the Government of Ecuador agreed to allocate

annually for cinchona work and no separate budget shall be provided for the said cinchona work.

(e) The Government of Ecuador shall make available to the

Station (through the Ministry of Economy) on or before the 15th day of January of each year in which this Memorandum of Under-

standing remains in force one-sixth of the amount budgeted annu-

ally for the Station , and thereafter on the first day of each suc-

ceeding month one-twelfth the annual budget shall be likewise

made available until the total annual budget has been made available .

Financial statement.

13. The Station shall present to the Minister of Economy, not

later than the 15th day of each month, a financial statement of the

Station for the preceding month .

14. All financial obligations assumed under this Memorandum of

Understanding by the Government of Ecuador are understood and

agreed to be subject to appropriations of the Ecuadoran Congress . 15. Likewise, all financial obligations assumed under this Memo-

randum of Understanding by the Government of the United States of America are understood and agreed to be subject to appropriations

made for this purpose by the Congress of the United States of America. Assistant Director.
16. There shall be appointed by the Agricultural Station Commis-

sion , with the approval of the Minister of Economy of Ecuador, an Ecuadoran to be Assistant Director of the Station , whose duties shall

be to assist the Director in handling the general administration of

the Station, and such other functions as may be assigned to him by

Entry into force; duration .
56 Stat. 1787.

the Director or by the Agricultural Station Commission. 17. The present Memorandum of Understanding shall supersede
the Memorandum of Understanding of August 12 , 1942 , between the

Government of the United States of America , the Government of

Ecuador , and the Ecuadoran Development Corporation . It shall be

Post, p. 3618. Termination.

brought into force by an exchange of diplomatic notes and shall enter into force on the day indicated in such notes . It shall continue in force for a period of ten years from that date. In the event, however, that either Government desires to terminate this Memorandum of

Understanding prior to the aforesaid expiration date, it may do so by giving sixty days ' written notice thereof to the other Government.

ESTIMATED BUDGET FOR THE COMPLETION OF THE BUILDING PROGRAM AT THE TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL STATION OF ECUADOR

1. Completion of:
(a) Hospital building .. (b) Brick house No. 2 .. (c) Frame houses Nos. 3, 4, 5, and 6 ..
Ea. S/16,000 (d) Cacao House and propagators ...

S/140, 000 25, 000 64, 000
10,000 S/239, 000

Jan. 26, 1948 62 STAT. ] ECUADOR- AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION-
Apr. 16, 1948

2. Construction of five houses for laborers . Ea. S/6,000
3. Purchase of:

30,000

(a) Electric plant .. (b) Water pump(c) Furnishings ...

150, 000 50, 000 20, 000

220,000

3611

Total

S/489, 000

If agreeable to the Government of Ecuador, the Government of the United States of America will consider the agreement , in the terms of the above memorandum of understanding, to be concluded and in effect on the date of a corresponding note from Your Excellency indicating that the Government of Ecuador is prepared to give effect to such agreement in accordance with the foregoing terms.
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my most distinguished consideration .
JOHN F. SIMMONS American Ambassador His Excellency Doctor ANTONIO PARRA VELASCO,
Minister for Foreign Affairs , Quito.

Effective date.

The Ecuadoran Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPÚBLICA DEL ECUADOR MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

No 64- DDP

DEPARTAMENTO DIPLOMATICO SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

QUITO, a 16 de abril de 1948.

Tengo a honra avisar a Vuestra Excelencia recibo de la atenta nota número 26, de 26 de enero de 1948 , sobre el establecimiento y funcionamiento de una estación agrícola cooperativa en el Ecuador y de informarle que el Gobierno del Ecuador acepta el acuerdo al respecto en los siguientes términos :

"MEMORANDUM DE ENTENDIMIENTO ENTRE EL GOBIERNO DEL ECUADOR Y EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA, RELACIONADO CON EL ESTABLECIMIENTO Y FUNCIONAMIENTO DE UNA ESTACION AGRICOLA COOPERATIVA EN EL ECUADOR.

De conformidad con el deseo del Gobierno del Ecuador de que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América continúe cooperando con el Gobierno del Ecuador para completar la instalación y continuar el funcionamiento de un programa de Estaciones Agrícolas en el Ecuador, que en adelante se conocerá como Estación Agrícola del Ecuador, y se le denominará en este Memorándum como Estación , con el objeto de estimular el cultivo de productos agrícolas básicos y estratégicos, el
68706-52 -PT. III- - 64

3612

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y el Gobierno del Ecuador han llegado al siguiente entendimiento :
1. Las funciones generales de la Estación continuarán siendo : (a) investigaciones de la producción agronómica necesarias para una agricultura permanente en el Ecuador con productos complementarios, especialmente cacao , caucho , barbasco , piretro y cinchona como cultivos para la venta ; (b) ayuda en el establecimiento de prácticas agrícolas aprobadas , por medio de trabajos de extensión agrícola como lazo entre la Estación y los Agricultores particulares ; (c) la propagación de material de plantación para distribución a los agricultores ; (d) cooperación con otras instituciones agrícolas del Hemisferio Occidental, en el fomento de la agricultura tropical mediante consultas e intercambio de material de propagación, información científica, y personal técnico ; y (e) cooperación con agencias de salud pública, colonización y rehabilitación agrícola de los Estados Unidos de Améri-
ca, Ecuador y el Hemisferio Occidental , en el desarrollo de la agricultura en el Ecuador.
2. El Gobierno del Ecuador proporcionará todos los terrenos necesarios para realizar las investigaciones y el trabajo de demostración encaminado (a) a estimular la producción lucrativa de cultivos agricolas , con énfasis especial en cultivos de exportación tales como el cacao , caucho , fibras, insecticidas , medicinales y aceites vegetales y (b) aumentar los ingresos y el comercio exterior del pueblo del Ecuador. El Gobierno del Ecuador continuará proporcionando todos los terrenos descritos en la Circular Nº 435 , de fecha 18 de Octubre de 1946 , del Ministerio de Economía, por la cual se transfirió a la Estación una cierta extensión de terrenos de la Hacienda Pichilingue la que se conocerá en adelante como la Estación Agrícola Tropical del
Ecuador. Se dará también a la Estación el uso continuado , por el tiempo que se estime necesario , de las propiedades conocidas como 'La Favorita' (Saloya ) y Granja Escolar de Tumbaco . A pedido del Director de la Estación se asignarán a ésta otros terrenos que sean necesarios , siempre que el Gobierno del Ecuador lo considere factible.
3. Se conviene en que todos los productos ya sea de los lotes experimentales y de demostración o de otras fuentes de producción comprendidas en las propiedades de la Estación pertenecerán a ésta y podrán usarse o disponerse a discreción del Director de la misma. Todos los fondos provenientes de esta fuente se emplearán para ayudar a sufragar los gastos del programa de la Estación.
4. El Gobierno del Ecuador proporcionará también los fondos necesarios para (a) la preparación , impresión y distribución de cuatro tipos
de publicaciones que emitirá la Estación , como sigue: 1 ) Circulares o artículos populares en español , escritos para la familia agrícola , por el personal de la Estación y otras personas calificadas , sobre temas tales como la salud , higiene, organización de la comunidad , información sobre la región del Pacífico, propósitos de la Estación , tratado de las prácticas y metodología agrícolas ;

Jan. 26, 1948 62 STAT. ] ECUADOR-AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION-
Apr. 16, 1948
2 ) Circulares agrícolas escritas en español que se emitirán según sea necesario, que traten de métodos y productos agrícolas específicos ;
3 ) Boletines técnicos en inglés o español que traten de los resultados de determinadas investigaciones científicas en la Estación ;
4) Un informe anual en español que cubra el trabajo realizado por la Estación durante el año y el estado de la agricultura en la región ;
(b) los servicios de científicos ecuatorianos que cooperen con cada científico designado para la Estación por el Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos , y los servicios de técnicos calificados en los ramos de reconocimiento de terrenos, topografía, drenaje, dibujo, construcciones menores, análisis químico y administración de bibliotecas, según sean necesarios ; (c) mecanógrafos , oficinistas, mecánicos, maquinistas, ayudantes de campo y de laboratorio, y los peones que sean necesarios para realizar los trabajos de la Estación ; y (d) los gastos de transporte que se ocasionen en viajes oficiales dentro del Ecuador de los miembros ecuatorianos y norteamericanos del personal de la Estación .
5. El Gobierno del Ecuador suministrará:
(a) entrada libre de derechos de aduana para:
1 ) provisiones y equipo para la Estación ; y 2) provisiones , ropa, alimentos y efectos personales de
los miembros norteamericanos del personal de la Estación cuyos sueldos son pagados por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos ;
(b) exención de todos los impuestos ecuatorianos sobre la renta de aquellos miembros norteamericanos del personal de la Estación cuyos sueldos son pagados por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América ; y
(c) cuando sea posible, estudiantes ecuatorianos en estudios de graduación en los varios campos de la agricultura, en colegios o universidades de los Estados Unidos de América, quienes regresarán al Ecuador a trabajar en el programa de fomento agrícola del Gobierno.
6. Con referencia a la Estación Agrícola Tropical del Ecuador, el Gobierno del Ecuador conviene, (a) en construir o concluir,
1 ) residencias completas con muebles, para los miembros norteamericanos y ecuatorianos del personal ,
2) casas para los peones de la Estación y para el personal semi-técnico ,
3) un hospital con muebles , servicios y equipo completos, (se recomienda que este hospital sea transferido a otro departamento del Gobierno del Ecuador y se lo ponga al servicio de toda la región) y

3613

3614

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
4) edificios para servicios , inclusive talleres de reparación, casas apropiadas para el almacenaje de equipo y material de plantación, y
(b) en proveer,
1 ) los edificios que se necesiten para estudios de la producción ganadera , y para la instalación de plantas guías para la preparación de los productos agrícolas para la exportación ,
2 ) una bomba apropiada para proveer de agua abundante, 3 ) una planta eléctrica apropiada para abastecer las
necesidades de luz y fuerza de la Estación ,
4) facilidades de recreación tales como canchas de tenis , campo de footbal, etc., y
5) un médico y enfermera graduados para el hospital. Se conviene en que el Gobierno del Ecuador hará todo esfuerzo para completar el programa de construcciones detallado arriba , hasta el 31 de diciembre de 1948 o antes . Los fondos para los fines que anteceden no serán tomados del presupuesto regular de funcionamiento de la Estación, sino que se proveerán por separado , toda vez que estas son las obligaciones de la Corporación Ecuatoriana de Fomento que han sido asumidas por el Ministerio de Economía y el Ministerio del Tesoro , por Decreto Ejecutivo N° 1526 -a ) de 31 de julio de 1946 (Registro Oficial N° 663 , de 19 de agosto de 1946) . Se acompaña a este Memorandum de Entendimiento un presupuesto de los gastos necesarios para las construcciones de que habla este párágrafo . Estos fondos se asignarán a la Estación, la cual dirigirá y administrará los trabajos arriba estipulados.
7. Se declara que están a disposición exclusiva de la Estación durante la vigencia del presente Memorándum de Entendimiento , todas las construcciones , maquinarias , vehículos , laboratorios, herramientas, equipos y otras propiedades, productos , etc., adquiridos hasta ahora para el uso de la Estación o por razón del funcionamiento de la misma inclusive las pertenencias adquiridas como resultado de la contribución de las tres partes signatarias del Memorandum de Entendimiento de 12 de agosto de 1942 , (el mismo que queda sustituído por el presente Memorandum de Entendimiento , de acuerdo con lo estipulado en la cláusula 17 ) . Se declara asimismo que las pertenencias , laboratorios , etc., que se hallan actualmente en posesión de la Estación
estarán a disposición exclusiva de la misma durante le vigencia del presente Memorándum de Entendimiento .
8. Ninguna de las pertenencias que son ahora de propiedad de la Estación o que pasen a serlo en el futuro , podrán venderse a ninguna persona o institución pública o privada , con excepción de lo estipulado en la cláusula 3 , hasta que tales propiedades hayan sido declaradas

62 STAT. ] ECUADOR- AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATIONJan. 26, 1948 Apr. 16, 1948
excedente por el Director de la Estación , y en este caso el método de venta o de disposición debe estar de acuerdo con los Reglamentos del Gobierno al cual pertenece dicha propiedad. La propiedad de todas las pertenencias y equipo de la Estación pasará al Departamento de Agricultura del Gobierno del Ecuador en cualquier momento en que este contrato se termine legalmente, con la excepción del equipo proporcionado por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, el que seguirá siendo propiedad de este Gobierno para disponerlo de acuerdo con sus reglamentos pertinentes .
9. El Gobierno del Ecuador conviene también en suministrar, (a) Las publicaciones agrícolas necesarias para el funcionamiento apropiado de la Estación, incluyendo libros de referencia , revistas y boletines publicados fuera de los Estados Unidos , así como el empastado de revistas, etc. , (b ) lanchas y vehículos necesarios para el transporte por agua y tierra, (c ) equipo , maquinaria y repuestos , excepto aquellos que deben proporcionar los Estados Unidos de América, de acuerdo con lo estipulado en la cláusula 11 y (d ) la compra de semillas y material de plantación para uso experimental y comercial .
10. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , y el Gobierno del Ecuador convienen mutuamente en que todas las pertenencias no
fungibles compradas para el uso de la Estación las recibirá y estarán a cargo de (a) el Director Americano de la Estación o un técnico americano designado por él , cuando se trate de compras hechas con fondos del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos y (b) el empleado ecua-
toriano de mayor categoría de la Estación en cuestión , cuando se trate de compras hechas con fondos del Gobierno del Ecuador .
11. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, por medio del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos, y con sujeción a la disponibilidad de fondos para este fin, conviene en suministrar, (a) los servicios de científicos para desempeñar las funciones de Dirección de la Estación y las investigaciones agronómicas, (b) periódicos científicos actuales sobre las ciencias animal y vegetal publicados en los Estados Unidos de América, (c) equipo científico para los laboratorios agronómicos no producidos o manufacturados en el Ecuador, y (d ) ayuda en el diseño de todos los edificios , inclusive las residencias para los miembros ecuatorianos y americanos del personal .
12. El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y el Gobierno del Ecuador convienen mutuamente en que ,
a) Con el objeto de proveer la supervisión conjunta a los as-
pectos cooperativos del proyecto, y a fin de facilitar los medios directos de consulta entre los dos Gobiernos en
relación con tales aspectos, se establecerá una comisión de la Estación, compuesta de dos miembros, un representante del Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos y el Director o encargado de la Dirección del Departamento de Agricultura del Ecuador ; la Comisión sujeta a la aprobación del Gobierno del Ecuador tendrá autoridad para
establecer los requisitos y proponer candidatos para los

3615

3616

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
cargos que hubiere en la Estación ; la Comisión puede. delegar al Director de la Estación aquellas de sus funciones que estime conveniente :
b) El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América suministrará transporte para los científicos norteamericanos y sus familias inclusive manaje de casa , a y desde el Ecuador, y les proporcionará ciertas asignaciones para subsistencias, y cierto equipo de laboratorio y periódicos publicados en los Estados Unidos de América. Con exclusión de los sueldos de los científicos destinados a la Estación por el Departamento de Agricultura de los Estados Unidos , los gastos que anteceden no excederán de $25.000 en ningún año fiscal después de la fecha de este Memorándum de Entendimiento ;
c) La obligación de los Estados Unidos de América de suministrar los implementos enumerados en los subtítulos b) y c) de la cláusula 11 dependerá de la disponibilidad de dichos implementos en los Estados Unidos de América ;
d) De conformidad con las cláusulas 4 y 9 el Gobierno del Ecuador, por intermedio de la Dirección Técnica de Agricultura del Ministerio de Economía , conviene en entregar anualmente a la Estación los fondos necesarios para el funcionamiento de todos sus servicios , inclusive el pago de sueldos y el de viáticos y gastos de viaje dentro y fuera del país , al personal ecuatoriano técnico y administrativo , cuando viaje por asuntos oficiales de la Estación , jornales de peones , gastos de viaje , exclusive viáticos , a los técnicos norteamericanos del personal cuando viajen dentro del país por asuntos oficiales de la Estación , compra en el Ecuador o en el Exterior de maquinaria, vehículos , herramientas agrícolas , materiales de construcción y cualquier otro equipo no proporcionado por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América de acuerdo a este Memorandum de Entendimiento . La suma presupuestada para el año fiscal de 1948 es la de 840.000 sucres (moneda ecuatoriana) y no será menor durante ningún otro año , mientras este Memorandum de Entendimiento esté en vigencia, más un aumento anual que será asignado por el Ministerio de Economía de acuerdo con el incremento del programa de la Estación y el aumento de los costos de vida y de los materiales , por recomendación del Director de la Estación presentada de acuerdo con la Comisión de la misma. Este presupuesto anual incluirá la cantidad que el Gobierno del Ecuador convino en asignar anualmente para los trabajos de cinchona y no se expedirá ningún presupuesto separado para dichos trabajos de cinchona ; y,
e) Se conviene además en que el Gobierno del Ecuador pondrá a disposición de la Estación (por medio del Ministerio de

Jan. 26, 1948 62 STAT. ECUADOR--AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION-
Apr. 16, 1948
Economía) el 15 de enero de cada año en que este Memorándum de Entendimiento esté en vigencia o antes, una sexta parte de la suma anual presupuestada para la Estación , y de ahí en adelante el primero de cada mes siguiente, una doceava parte del presupuesto anual será , asimismo , puesta a disposición de la Estación hasta que se haya hecho efectivo todo el presupuesto anual.
13. La Estación presentará al Ministro de Economía , antes del 15 de cada mes, un estado de cuentas de la Estación por el mes anterior.
14. Todas las obligaciones económicas asumidas en este Memorándum de Entendimiento por el Gobierno del Ecuador, se entiende y se conviene que están sujetas a las asignaciones del Congreso del Ecuador.
15. De la misma manera , todas las obligaciones económicas asumidas en este Memorandum de Entendimiento por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , se entiende y conviene que están sujetas a las asignaciones hechas para el objeto por el Congreso de los Estados Unidos de América.
16. La comisión de la Estación, con la aprobación del Ministro de Economía nombrará a un ecuatoriano como Sub-director de la Estación, cuyos deberes serán los de ayudar al Director en la administración general de la Estación , y todos los otros deberes que pueda asignarle el Director o la Comisión de la Estación .
17. El Presente Memorandum de Entendimiento sustituirá y reemplazará al Memorándum de Entendimiento de agosto 12 de 1942 , entre el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, el Gobierno del Ecuador y la Corporación Ecuatoriana de Fomento . Se hará efectivo mediante el intercambio de notas diplomáticas y entrará en vigencia el día indicado en tales notas. Continuará en vigencia por un periódo de diez años a contarse desde esa fecha . Sin embargo, en caso de que cualquier Gobierno desee dar por terminado este Memorandum de Entendimiento antes de la fecha de expiración indicada, puede hacerlo, para lo cual comunicará su desco al otro Gobierno por escrito y con sesenta días de anticipación . " 2. El Gobierno del Ecuador conviene en que , conforme a lo establecido en el Memorandum preinserto , empezará éste a regir en la fecha de la presente comunicación .
Válgome de la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia, las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
José M GARCÍA MORENO JOSE M. GARCIA MORENO, Ministro de Ecudacion Publica, Encargado de la Cartera de Relaciones Exteriores
Al Excelentísimo Señor Don JOHN F. SIMMONS,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de America, Presente.-

3617

3618 Ante, p. 3605.
Effective date. Ante, p. 3610.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Translation
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

No. 64 DDP

DIPLOMATIC DEPARTMENT MR. AMBASSADOR :

QUITO, April 16, 1948.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your courteous note No.

26 of January 26 , 1948 , concerning the establishment and operation of a cooperative agricultural station in Ecuador and to inform you that the Government of Ecuador accepts the agreement thereon in the

following terms :

[For the English language text of the Memorandum of Understanding, except the material relating to the estimated budget omitted from the quoted portion of this note , see pp . 3605 ff .
For material relating to the estimated budget omitted from the quoted portion of this note, see pp . 3619 ff . ]

2. The Government of Ecuador agrees that , in conformity with the provisions of the Memorandum herein inserted , the latter shall become effective on the date of the present communication .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
José M. GARCÍA MORENO José M. GARCÍA MORENO

Minister of Public Education,

Charged with the Portfolio of

His Excellency JOHN F. SIMMONS ,

Minister of Foreign Relations.

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the United States of America, City.

The Ecuadoran Ministerfor Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPÚBLICA DEL ECUADOR MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

N°79- DDP

DEPARTAMENTO DIPLOMATICO

QUITO, a 14 May 1948

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR:
Tengo a honra dirigirme a Vuestra Excelencia y como alcance a lo manifestado en mi nota número 64- DDP , de 16 de abril último , me es grato remitirle junto a la presente un Proyecto de Presupuesto para la terminación del programa de construcciones de la Estación de Agricultura Tropical del Ecuador , el mismo que agradeceré se sirva considerarlo debidamente Vuestra Excelencia y hacerlo constar como parte del "Memorandum de Entendimiento entre los Gobiernos del Ecuador y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América , relacionado

62 STAT. ] ECUADOR- AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION- Jan. 26, 1948 Apr. 16, 1948
con el establecimiento y funcionamiento de una Estación Agrícola Cooperativa en el Ecuador" transcrito en la nota de mi referencia .
Válgome de la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
Por el Ministro , el Subsecretario : JA BAQUERO JOSÉ ANTONIO BAQUERO .
ANEXO.
Al Excelentísimo Señor Don JOHN F. SIMMONS , Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de Norte América . Presente .

PROYECTO DE PRESUPUESTO PARA TERMINAR EL PROGRAMA DE CONSTRUCCIONES DE LA ESTACION DE AGRICULTURA TROPICAL DEL ECUADOR

1.-Terminación de :

(a)-Edificio del hospital (b)-Casa de ladrillo número 2

S/.140.000 S/.25.000

(c)-Casas de madera números 3, 4, 5 y 6 (cada una

S/.16.000) . .

S/.64.000

(d) -Casas para el cacao y propagadores

S/.10.000 S/.239.000

2.-Construcción de cinco casas para obreros (cada una

S/.6.000) ·

S/.

S/.30.000

3. -Compra de :
(a) -Planta eléctrica . (b)-Bomba de Agua (c)-Muebles ·

S/.150.000 S/.50.000 S/.20.000 S/.220.000

SUMAN

S/.489.000

3619

Translation

REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

No. 79-DDP.

DIPLOMATIC DEPARTMENT MR. AMBASSADOR:

QUITO, May 14, 1948

I have the honor to address Your Excellency and, with reference to

the content of my note No. 64-DDP of April 16 last, I take pleasure in transmitting herewith a proposed budget for the completion of the Building Program at the Tropical Agricultural Station in Ecuador. I shall appreciate it if Your Excellency will be good enough to give due consideration to this budget and to have it entered as a part of

the " Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ecuador and the Government of the United States of America regarding the Establishment and Operation of a Cooperative Agricultural

Ante, p. 3611.

3620

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Station in Ecuador, " the text of which is given in the aforesaid note. I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the
assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration. For the Minister: JA BAQUERO JOSÉ ANTONIO BAQUERO. Under Secretary
Enclosure:
His Excellency JOHN F. SIMMONS , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America . City.

PROPOSED BUDGET FOR THE COMPLETION OF THE BUILDING PROGRAM AT THE TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL STATION OF ECUADOR

1. Completion of:
(a) Hospital building (b) Brick house No. 2 · (c) Frame houses Nos. 3, 4, 5, and 6
Ea. S/16,000 (d) Houses for cacao and propagators ·
2. Construction of five houses for laborers Ea. S/6,000
3. Purchase of:
(a) Electric plant · (b) Water pump (c) Furnishings

S/ 140, 000 25,000 64, 000
10,000 S/ 239, 000 30,000

150,000 50, 000 20,000

220,000

Total

S/ 489,000

62 STAT. ]

FRANCE- MILITARY SERVICE-DEC. 22, 1948

3621

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting military obligations of certain persons having dual nationality, superseding the agreement of February 25, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Paris December 22, 1948 ; entered into force December 22, 1948.

December 22, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1876]

The French Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
PARIS, le 22 décembre 1948. MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR ,
J'ai l'honneur de vous faire connaître que, désireux de mettre fin aux difficultés que rencontrent, du fait de leurs obligations militaires dans nos deux pays , ceux de nos ressortissants respectifs qui possèdent également la nationalité de l'autre pays , le Gouvernement français estime désirable et opportun de conclure un arrangement sur les bases suivantes :
1º Les ressortissants des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, qui possèdent également la nationalité française, seront considérés comme ayant satisfait à leurs obligations militaires en France pendant les guerres de 1914-1918 et de 1939-1945 , s'ils ont satisfait à ces mêmes obligations dans les forces armées américaines et en justifient par la production d'un document officiel des autorités américaines .
2º - Les ressortissants français, qui possèdent également la nationalité américaine, seront considérés comme ayant satisfait à leurs obligations militaires aux Etats-Unis pendant les guerres de 1914-1918 et de 1939-1945, s'ils ont satisfait à ces mêmes obligations dans les forces armées françaises et en justifient par la production d'un document officiel des autorités françaises.
3º - Un délai de deux ans, à compter de la mise en vigueur du présent accord, sera accordé aux intéressés pour qu'ils puissent, par la production du certificat susmentionné, régulariser leur situation.
4° Chacun des deux Gouvernements délivrera aux ressortissants de l'autre qui auront volontairement pris du service dans ses forces armées , pendant les guerres de 1914-1918 et de 1939-1945 , une attestation officielle destinée à leur permettre de régulariser leur situation à l'égard de leur pays.
5º - Les conditions dans lesquelles tout service effectué dans un intérêt national pendant les guerres de 1914-1918 et de 1939-1945 pourra être assimilé au service militaire seront laissées à l'appréciation commune des deux Gouvernements . Un certificat précisant la nature du service rendu sera, le cas échéant, délivré à l'intéressé, suivant les modalités prévues aux articles précédents .
6º.- Les dispositions du présent arrangement ne touchent en rien à la condition juridique des intéressés en matière de nationalité.

3622

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
7º. - Le présent arrangement , qui remplace celui de 25 février 1948 , entrera immédiatement en vigueur et le demeurera jusqu'à l'expiration du délai de deux ans prévu à l'article 3 .
La présente note et la réponse qu'y donnera votre Excellence , au cas où ces propositions auraient l'agrément du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis , constitueront l'accord des deux Gouvernements sur la question./.
Veuillez agréer, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, les assurances de ma très haute considération .
SCHUMAN
Son Excellence l'honorable JEFFERSON CAFFERY Ambassadeur des Etats - Unis d'Amerique à Paris.
Translation
PARIS, December 22 , 1948.
MR. AMBASSADOR : I have the honor to inform you that, desirous of resolving the
difficulties which persons who are nationals of both countries encounter as a result of their military obligations in our two countries , the French Government considers that it would be desirable and opportune to conclude an agreement in the following terms :
1. It will be considered that citizens of the United States of America who are also French citizens have fulfilled their military obligations in France during the wars of 1914-1918 and 1939-1945 if they have fulfilled the same obligations in the armed forces of the United States and can prove the fact by an official document from United States authorities .
2. It will be considered that French citizens who are also citizens of the United States of America have fulfilled their military obligations to the United States during the wars of 1914-1918 and 19391945 if they have fulfilled the same obligations in the French armed forces and can prove the fact by an official document from French authorities .
3. Interested persons will be granted a period of two years from the date on which this agreement comes into force in which to clarify their status by producing the above-mentioned document.
4. Each of the two Governments will deliver to the citizens of the other government who have volunteered in its armed forces during the wars of 1914-1918 and 1939-1945 , an official certificate designed to permit them to clarify their status in regard to their own country.
5. The conditions unuer which any service rendered in the national interest during the wars of 1914-1918 and 1939-1945 can be considered military service will be left to the joint decision of the two governments . A certificate specifying the nature of the services rendered will be delivered to the interested party when the question arises by the means provided in the preceding paragraphs .

62 STAT. ]

FRANCE- MILITARY SERVICE- DEC . 22, 1948

3623

6. The provisions of the present agreement in no way affect the

legal position of interested parties in the matter of nationality.

7. The present agreement, which supersedes the agreement of

February 25 ,

1948

will become effective immediately,

and will re-

62 Stat . , Pt. 2, p. 1950.

main in effect until the expiration of the period of two years mentioned

in paragraph 3 .

The present note and Your Excellency's reply, if these proposals are acceptable to the Government of the United States, will consti-

tute the agreement between the two governments on this question. Please accept, Mr. Ambassador, the assurances of my very high
consideration. SCHUMAN
His Excellency JEFFERSON CAFFERY

Ambassador of the United States of America Paris .

The American Ambassador to the French Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 1358

PARIS , December 22, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's Note of December 22 , 1948 , informing me that the French Government , desirous of resolving the difficulties which those persons who are nationals of both countries encounter as a result of their military obligations in our two countries , considers that it would be both desirable and opportune to conclude an agreement in the following terms :

1. It will be considered that citizens of the United States of America

Fulfillment of military obligations to

who are also French citizens have fulfilled their military obligations France.

in France during the wars of 1914-1918 and 1939-1945 if they have

fulfilled the same obligations in the armed forces of the United States

and can prove the fact by an official document from the United States authorities.
2. It will be considered that French citizens who are also citizens of the United States of America have fulfilled their military obliga-

Fulfillment of mili-
tary obligations to U.S.

tions to the United States during the wars of 1914-1918 and 1939-

1945 if they have fulfilled the same obligations in the French armed

forces and can prove the fact by an official document from the French authorities .
3. Interested persons will be granted a period of two years from the

Period clarifica infor

date on which this agreement is concluded in which they may clarify

their status by the production of the above-mentioned documents.

4. Each of the two governments will deliver to the citizens of the

other government who have volunteered in its armed forces during

the wars of 1914-1918 and 1939-1945 a certificate designed to permit

them to clarify their status in regard to their country.

5. The conditions under which any service rendered in the national

interest during the wars of 1914-1918 and 1939-1945 can be considered

3624

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

military service will be left to the joint decision of the two govern-

ments . A certificate specifying the nature of the services rendered

will be delivered to the interested party when the question arises by

the means provided in the preceding paragraphs.

6. The provisions of this present agreement in no way affect the

legal position of interested parties in the matter of nationality.

Effective date; dura-

tion.

7. The present agreement, which supersedes the agreement of

p.6129580.tat., Pt . 2 , February 25 , 1948 , will become effective immediately, and will remain

in effect until the expiration of the period of two years mentioned in

paragraph 3.

These proposals are acceptable to my Government, and Your Excellency's proposal and this reply will constitute the agreement between the two governments on this question.
I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest consideration .
JEFFERSON CAFFERY

His Excellency Monsieur ROBERT SCHUMAN, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Paris

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION- OCT. 22, 1948

3625

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting a United States Educational Commission for France. Signed at Paris October 22, 1948 ; entered into force November 18 , 1948.

October 22, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1877]

CONVENTION
ENTRE LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS-UNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LE
GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE FRANCAISE
EN VUE DE FINANCER CERTAINS PROGRAMMES D'ECHANGES
DANS LE DOMAINE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT.

3626

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

The Government of the United States of America and The Government of the French Republic ;
desiring to promote further mutual understanding between the peoples of the United States of America and the French Republic by a wider exchange of knowledge and professional talents ;

Considering that the Secretary of State of the United States of America may enter into an agreement for financing certain educational exchange programs from currencies or credits for currencies acquired pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding dated May 28, p.641175S.tat . , Pt . 4 , 1946 and the supplements thereto ; Have agreed as follows:

Article 1 .

catUinointaeld CSotamtmeissEsdioun- There shall be established a Commission to be known as the United

for France.

States Educational Commission for France (hereinafter designated

"The Commission" ) , which shall be recognized by the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the French Republic as an organization created and established to facilitate the

administration of an educational program financed by funds made available in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding

dated May 28 , 1946 and the supplement thereto . Except as here-

inafter provided , the Commission shall be exempt from the domestic

and local laws of the United States of America as they relate to the use and expenditure of currencies and credits for currencies for the

purposes set forth in the present agreement. The funds shall enjoy

on the part of the Government of the French Republic the exemption and immunities accorded to the property of a foreign government.

Use of funds.

Funds made available under the present agreement , within the conditions and limitations hereinafter set forth, shall be placed at the disposal of the Commission for the purposes of: 1. Financing studies, research, instruction , and other educational activities of or for citizens of the United States of America in schools and institutions of higher learning llcated in France and Territories of the French Union , or of the nationals of France in the United States schools and institutions of higher learning located outside the continental United States, Hawai , Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands) , Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, including payment for trans-

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION- OCT. 22, 1948

3627

Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et Le Gouvernement de la République Française ;
désireux de développer l'esprit de compréhension réciproque entre les peuples des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et de la République Française par l'accroissement des échanges de connaissances scientifiques , techniques et professionnelles ;
Considérant que le Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique est à même de conclure un accord en vue de financer certains programmes d'échanges concernant l'enseignement au moyen de fonds ou de crédits obtenus en vertu du Mémorandum d'Accord en date du 28 mai 1946 et des additifs à ce texte;
Sont convenus des dispositions suivantes : Article 1.
Il sera créé une Commission qui portera le nom de Commission américaine d'échanges universitaires avec la France (ci-après désignée par le terme "la Commission " ) ; laquelle Commission sera reconnue par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et par le Gouvernement de la République Française comme une organisation créée et établie en vue de faciliter la mise en oeuvre d'un programme culturel financé au moyen de fonds accordés conformément au Mémorandum d'Accord en date du 28 Mai 1946 et aux additifs à ce texte . Sauf en ce qui concerne les dispositions arrêtées ci-dessous , la Commission ne sera pas soumise aux dispositions de la législation intérieure et locale des Etats-Unis d'Amérique qui ont trait à l'utilisation et à la dépense de fonds et de crédits aux fins définies dans la présente Convention . Les fonds bénéficieront de la part du Gouvernement de la République Française de l'exonération et des immunités accordées aux biens d'un Gouvernement étranger.
Les fonds accordés en vertu de la présente Convention , conformément aux conditions et limitations définies ci-après , seront mis à la disposition de la Commission aux fins suivantes :
1. Financer des études, recherches, enseignements et autres activités. du domaine de l'enseignement effectuées par des citoyens des EtatsUnis d'Amérique ou à leur intention, dans des écoles et instituts d'études supérieures situés en France et dans les territoires de l'Union Française, ou effectués par des ressortissants français dans les écoles et instituts américains d'études supérieures, situés hors du territoire continental des Etats-Unis, des Hawaï, de l'Alaska (y compris les

3628

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
portation, tuition , maintenance, and other expenses incident to scholastic activities ;

or

2. Furnishing transportation for nationals of France who may be chosen to attend United States schools and institutions of higher learning in the continental United States , Hawai , Alaska (including the Aleutian Islands) and whose attendance will not deprive citizens of the United States of America of an opportunity to attend such schools and institutions .

Article 2.

miPsosiwoenr.s of The Com. In furtherance of the aforementioned purposes, the Commission may, subject to the provisions of the present agreement , exercise all powers necessary to the carrying out of the purposes of this agreement, including the following:

60 Stat. 754. 50 U. S. C. app. § 1641 (b).

1. Plan, adopt and carry out programs in accordance with the purposes of Section 32 (b) of the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944, as amended, and the purposes of this agreement ;

2. Recommend to the Board of Foreign Scholarships , provided for in the United States Surplus Property Act of 1944 , as amended , students, professors , research scholars , resident in France and the Territories of the French Union, and institutions of France and the Territories of the French Union qualified in the opinion of the Commission to participate in the educational program in accordance with the aforesaid Act .

3. Recommend to the aforesaid Board of Foreign scholarships such qualifications for the selection of participants in the programs as it may deem necessary for achieving the purpose and objectives of the Commission ;

4. Authorize the Treasurer of the Commission or such other person as the Commission may designate to receive funds to be deposited in bank accounts in the name of the Treasurer of the Commission or such other person as may be designated . The appointment of the Treasurer or such designee shall be approved by the Secretary of State and he shall deposit funds received in a depository or depositories designated by the Secretary of State ;
5. Subject to the conditions and limitations as set forth herein, authorize the disbursement of funds and the making of grants and advances of funds for the authorized purposes of the Commission;
6. Provide for periodic audits of the accounts of the Treasurer of the Commission as directed by auditors selected by the Secretary of State of the United States of America;

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION-OCT. 22, 1948
Iles Aléoutiennes ) , de Porto - Rico et des Iles Vierges , ledit financement devant comprendre les frais de transport, d'enseignement et d'entretien, ainsi que les autres dépenses accessoires afférentes aux études ; ou bien
2. Fournir des moyens de transport aux ressortissants français qui pourront être choisis en vue de fréquenter des écoles et instituts américains d'études supérieures situés sur le territoire continental des EtatsUnis, dans les Hawaï ou en Alaska (y compris les Iles Aléoutiennes) et dont la présence ne privera pas les citoyens des Etats-Unis d'Amérique de la possibilité de fréquenter lesdits instituts et écoles.
Article 2.
Dans la poursuite des objectifs indiqués ci-dessus la Commission pourra, sous réserve des dispositions de la présente Convention , exercer tous pouvoirs nécessaires pour mettre à exécution le programme prévu par ladite Convention , notamment les suivants :
1. Etablir, adopter et exécuter des programmes conformes aux objectifs de l'article 32 (b) de la loi américaine de 1944 sur les Surplus, modifiée, et à ceux de la présente Convention ; 2. Recommander au Comité des Bourses pour étrangers prévu par la loi américaine de 1944 sur les Surplus, modifiée, des étudiants , des professeurs, des chercheurs résidant en France et dans les territoires de l'Union Française, ainsi que des Etablissements de France et de l'Union Française, qualifiés , de l'avis de la Commission , pour participer au programme établi en conformité avec ladite loi ;
3. Faire des recommandations audit Comité des Bourses pour étrangers en ce qui concerne les conditions dans lesquelles s'exercera le choix des personnes appelées à bénéficier de l'exécution de ce programme, selon qu'il sera jugé nécessaire pour atteindre les buts et objectifs de la Commission ; 4. Autoriser le Trésorier de la Commission ou toute autre personne que la Commission pourra désigner à recevoir des fonds qui devront être déposés à des comptes en banque au nom du Trésorier de la Commission ou de toute autre personne habilitée à cette fin. La nomination du Trésorier ou de la personne ainsi désignée sera approuvée par le Secrétaire d'Etat et le Trésorier déposera les fonds reçus dans un ou plusieurs dépôts choisis par le Secrétaire d'Etat ;
5. Sous réserve des conditions et limitations définies dans la présente Convention, autoriser le paiement de sommes et l'attribution de dons et d'avances de fonds aux fins approuvées par la Commission ;
6. Prévoir l'apurement périodique des comptes du Trésorier de la Commission conformément aux instructions qui seront données par les Commissaires aux comptes choisis par le Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique ;

3629

3630

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

7. Engage an Executive Officer, administrative and clerical staff, and fix and authorize the payment of salaries and wages thereof out of the funds made available .

Article 3.

Expenditures. Post, p. 3632.

All commitments, obligations and expenditures authorized by the Commission shall be made pursuant to budgets to be approved by the Secretary of State of the United States of America pursuant to such regulations as he may prescribe.

Article 4.

Members.

The Commission shall consist of twelve members , six of whom shall

be citizens of the United States of America, six of whom shall be citizens of France . Of the citizens of the United States a minimum

of three shall be officers of the United States Foreign Service Estab-

lishment in France . The principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States of America to France (hereinafter des-

"Chiefof Mission." ignated as the " Chief of Mission " ) , shall be Honorary Chairman of

the Commission and may cast the deciding vote in the event of a tie vote by the Commission. He shall have the power of appointment and removal of the United States citizens on the Commission. The

Chairman .

citizens of the French Republic on the Commission shall be designated by the Government of the French Republic . A Chairman with voting power shall be selected by the Commission from among its members.

The members shall serve from the time of their appointment until one year from the following December 31 and shall be eligible for reappointment. Vacancies by reason of resignation , transfer of residence outside France, expiration of term of service or otherwise shall be filled in accordance with this procedure. The members shall serve without compensation , but the Commission may authorize the payment of the necessary expenses of the members in attending the meetings of the Commission.

Rules. Reports.

Article 5.
The Commission shall adopt such rules and appoint such committees as it shall deem necessary for the conduct of its affairs . Article 6.
Reports acceptable in form and content to the Department of State of the United States shall be made annually on the activities of the Commission to the Secretary of State of the United States of America and the Government of the French Republic .

Article 7.
Principal office, etc. The principal office of the Commission shall be in Paris, but meetings of the Commission and any of its committees may be held in such other places as the Commission may from time to time determine, and the

62 STAT . ] FRANCE- U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION- OCT. 22, 1948
7. Engager un fonctionnaire exécutif, du personnel d'administration et de bureau, en fixer les traitements et salaires et autoriser le paiement desdits traitements et salaires sur les fonds disponibles. Article 3.
Toutes les dépenses , obligations et charges financières autorisées par la Commission seront engagées dans le cadre du budget qui sera approuvé par le Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, conformément à tous règlements que ce dernier pourra prescrire. Article 4.
La Commission se composera de douze membres, dont six seront des citoyens des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et six des citoyens français. Parmi les citoyens des Etats-Unis, trois au minimum seront des fonctionnaires du Service américain des Affaires Etrangères en France. Le fonctionnaire principal responsable de la mission diplomatique des Etats-Unis d'Amérique en France (ci-après désigné par l'expression "le Chef de mission " ) sera Président d'honneur de la Commission et aura voix prépondérante en cas de partage égal des suffrages à la Commission. Il aura le pouvoir de nommer et de révoquer les membres américains de la Commission . Les membres français de la Commission seront désignés par le Gouvernement de la République Française . La Commission élira un Président choisi parmi ses membres et ayant voix délibérative au même titre que les autres membres.
Les membres exerceront leurs fonctions depuis l'époque de leur désignation jusqu'au 31 décembre de l'année suivante et leur mandat pourra être renouvelé. Les postes vacants pour cause de démission, d'établissement de résidence hors de France, d'expiration de mandat ou pour tout autre motif seront pourvus d'un titulaire conformément à la même procédure. Les membres ne seront pas rétribués mais la Commission pourra autoriser le remboursement des dépenses qu'ils auront été dans l'obligation d'engager pour assister aux réunions de la Commission .
Article 5.
La Commission adoptera tels règlements et désignera telles sous-commissions nécessaires pour assurer la marche de ses affaires . Article 6. Des rapports présentés dans la forme et dans le fond conformément aux règles prévues par le Département d'Etat des Etats-Unis seront établis chaque année sur les activités de la Commission et adressés au Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et au Gouvernement de la République Française.
Article 7.
Le siège principal de la Commission sera établi à Paris, mais des réunions de la Commission et de l'une quelconque de ses sous-commissions pourront se tenir en tous autres lieux fixés par la Commission

3631

3632

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Executive Officer.

activities of any of the Commission's officers or staff may be carried on at such places as may be approved by the Commission , within the limit of any rules, regulations and restrictions in force in territories under the authority of the French Republic . Article 8.
In the event it is found to be impracticable for the Commission to engage an Executive Officer, the Government of the United States of America may provide an Executive Officer and such assistants as may be deemed necessary to ensure the effective operation of the program .

Ante, p. 3630.

Article 9.
The Secretary of State of the United States of America will make available for expenditure as authorized by the Commission currency of the Government of the French Republic in an amount not to exceed the equivalent of five million dollars nor in excess of the budgetary limitation established pursuant to Article 3 of the present agreement .

Article 10 .

of"thSeecUrneittaerdy SotfatSetsatoef Wherever, in the present agreement, the term " Secretary of State of

America."

the United States of America" is used , it shall be understood to mean

the Secretary of State of the United States of America or any officer

or employee of the Government of the United States of America designated by him to act in his behalf.

Article 11 .

Review .

The present agreement shall be reviewed by representatives of the two governments before December 31st , 1951 .

meCnhta.nges in agree. However, the two governments may, on the request of either, come to an earlier understanding on changes in the present agreement.

Article 12.
The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the French Republic shall make every effort to facilitate the exchange of persons programs authorized in this agreement and to resolve problems which may arise in the operation thereof.

Entry into force.

Article 13.
The present agreement shall come into force on the day on which notice of its ratification by the Government of the French Republic is given to the Government of the United States of America. [']
1 Entered into force Nov. 18, 1948, the date on which the French Embassy at Washington notified the Department of State of the ratification of this agreement by France .

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION- OCT. 22, 1948
et les activités de l'un quelconque des agents ou employés de la Commission pourront s'exercer en tous lieux choisis par celle-ci , dans les limites prévues par les lois et règlements en vigueur dans les territoires relevant de l'autorité de la République Française. Article 8.
Dans le cas où il s'avérerait impossible pour la Commission d'engager un fonctionnaire exécutif, le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique pourra désigner un fonctionnaire exécutif et des assistants dont les services seraient jugés nécessaires pour assurer la bonne exécution du programme.
Article 9.
En vue de couvrir les dépenses autorisées par la Commission, le Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique mettra à la dispositio.n de celle-ci des sommes en monnaie du Gouvernement de la République Française dont le montant ne devra pas excéder l'équivalent de cinq millions de dollars, ni outrepasser les limites du budget établi conformément à l'article 3 de la présente Convention .
Article 10.
Toutes les fois que, dans la présente Convention, l'expression "le Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique" est employée, elle sera réputée désigner le Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique ou tout fonctionnaire ou employé du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique désigné par lui pour agir en son nom. Article 11.
Des représentants des deux Gouvernements procèderont à un examen de la présente Convention avant le 31 décembre 1951 . Toutefois, les deux Gouvernements pourront, sur la demande de l'un d'entre eux, se concerter avant cette échéance en vue d'apporter des modifications au présent accord. Article 12.
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement de la République Française feront tous leurs efforts pour faciliter les programmes d'échanges de personnes autorisées par la présente Convention, et pour résoudre les problèmes que posera l'exécution desdits programmes. Article 18.
La présente Convention entrera en vigueur à la date du jour où sa ratification par le Gouvernement Français sera notifiée au Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.

3633

3634

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

In witness whereof the undersigned , being duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present agreement.
DONE at Paris the 22nd October 1948 in duplicate, in the English and French language.

JEFFERSON CAFFERY [SEAL]

SCHUMAN [SEAL]

YVON DELBOS [SEAL]

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- U. S. EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION- OCT . 22, 1948

En foi de quoi les soussignés, dûment autorisés par leurs Gouvernements respectifs, ont signé la présente Convention.
FAIT à Paris le 22 Octobre 1948 en double exemplaire , en langues anglaise et française, les deux textes faisant également foi .

JEFFERSON CAFFERY [SEAL]

SCHUMAN [SEAL]

YVON DELBOS [SEAL]

3635

68706-52- PT. III- 65

3636

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

November 26, 1948 IT. I. A. S. 1880]

Agreement between the United States of America and Brazil respecting a cooperative mineral resources survey program in Brazil . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rio de Janeiro November 26 , 1948; entered into force November 26, 1948 .

The American Ambassador to the Brazilian Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 303 EXCELLENCY:

Rio de Janeiro, November 26, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to conversations which have taken place between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and representatives of the Government of the United States of Brazil regarding the desirability of continuing the cooperative program established in 1940 for the study of Brazilian mineral re-

sources by means of geological investigations, prospecting, beneficiation tests and related projects and for the purpose of furthering

scientific collaboration between geologists, engineers , and metallur-
gists of the two countries in various projects relating to the mining economies of the two countries .

It is my understanding that these conversations have resulted in agreement upon a program for the joint study of Brazilian mineral resources to be carried on by the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey of the Department of the Interior on behalf of the Government of the United States of America and by the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral do Ministério da Agricultura on behalf of the Government of the United States of Brazil, in accordance with the following principles and procedures :

1. General Purposes - The Government of the United States of America, through the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey of the Department of the Interior, and the Government of the United

States of Brazil, through the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral do Ministério da Agricultura, agree :

(a) To make appraisals of the mineral resources of Brazil by means of geological and mineralogical studies, with special emphasis upon the principal minerals which form part of the trade between the United States of America and Brazil and upon those minerals, not yet produced in great quantity in Brazil, which may enter into such trade in the future.
(b) To lay the scientific basis for the development of those resources, including the preparation of such geologic, topographic and other maps as may be necessary .

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL- MINERAL RESOURCES PROGRAM-NOV. 26, 1948
(c) To promote the interchange of scientific knowledge and special techniques between the two countries , with special reference to aerial geologic mapping, topographic mapping, economic geology, and ground water and mineralogical investigations.
(d) To make technological investigations relating to the industrial use of Brazilian ores for internal consumption and for purposes of export.
(e) To study in detail the problems connected with prospecting, research, mining, beneficiation, and combustion of Brazilian coals .
2. Assignment of Scientists - The Government of the United States of America, through the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey, will assign scientists to undertake the studies referred to in the preceding paragraph, both in the United States of America and in Brazil .
The Government of the United States of Brazil , through the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral , will assign capable scientists to work in the United States of America and in Brazil in collaboration with the scientists assigned by the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey.
The two Governments shall provide ample facilities to those scientists in order that they may carry out their respective task in either country .
3. Projects - As used in the present agreement, the term " project " shall signify an investigation to be carried out within a specified period .
Specific projects will be agreed upon through consultation between representatives of the Embassy of the United States of America in Brazil and the Director General of the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral.
Such projects will be drawn up in flexible form in order to permit such modifications in scope and methods as may be required to satisfy local conditions as the work develops . Major revisions shall be agreed upon through consultation between the representatives of the Embassy of the United States of America in Brazil and the Director General of the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral . Each project will not be drawn up upon an annual basis but will continue for such period of time as may be necessary for its completion .
4. Reports - The investigations made in accordance with the present agreement will be reported for publication by the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey or by the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral, or by all the agencies concerned . The reports will be restricted to the exclusive use of the respective Governments until both Governments have given their consent to the publication thereof.
When such consent has been given, announcement shall be made of the place or places at which such reports may be available for examination or the reports shall be published .
For the exclusive use of interested agencies of the two Governments , brief memoranda-reports relating to mineral deposits or particular problems may be prepared and furnished by the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey or by the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral.

3637

3638

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Reports shall normally be prepared under the authorship of the collaborating scientists . Such reports may be prepared in either the United States of America or in Brazil . Laboratory and office facilities shall be furnished in the United States of America by the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey and in Brazil by the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral .
The Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey shall be responsible for the distribution of reports to the appropriate agencies of the Government of the United States of America and to the public in that country. The Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral shall be responsible for the distribution of reports to the appropriate agencies of the Government of the United States of Brazil and to the public of that country.
5. Financial Conditions - The salaries and expenses of scientists of the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey shall be defrayed by those agencies .
The salaries and expenses of scientists of the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral and of the Brazilian assistants such as draftsmen, rod men, axe men, guides , camp helpers , chauffeurs, mechanics , and laboratory assistants who may be required for any project shall be defrayed by that agency .
The Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral shall bear the cost of transportation by common carrier within Brazil of United States personnel assigned to Brazil in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement .
Laboratory expenses incurred in the United States of America in connection with necessary investigations carried on at the Bureau of Mines or the Geological Survey shall be defrayed by those agencies.
6. Specific Undertakings on the Part of the Government ofthe United States of Brazil - The Government of the United States of Brazil agrees :
(a) To provide for the free entry into Brazil of scientists of the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey assigned to work on projects undertaken in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement .
(b) To provide for the entry free of duty and for the exemption from consumption and other taxes and charges of supplies, materials, and equipment for the professional and personal use of scientists of the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey who may be assigned to Brazil in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement and for the personal effects, clothing, foodstuffs , and supplies of those scientists .
(c) To grant to scientists of the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey exemption from all Brazilian taxes based upon salaries .
(d) To permit the exportation free of taxes or other official charges of any supplies, materials, equipment , and effects brought into Brazil with the approval of the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral, in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement .

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL- MINERAL RESOURCES PROGRAM - NOV. 26, 1948

3639

(e) To permit the exportation free of taxes or other official charges of any equipment purchased in Brazil with the approval of the Departmento Nacional da Produção Mineral and paid for by the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey.
(f) To permit the exportation free of taxes of geological specimens and samples intended for study at the Bureau of Mines and

the Geological Survey in connection with projects undertaken in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement.

(g) To obtain exemption from all taxes imposed by the State

Governments of Brazil on the forwarding of samples and the re-

turning of equipment intended for use in connection with studies

contemplated by the present agreement .

(h) To make available, within the limits imposed by local con-

ditions , the use of automotive and air transportation facilities

necessary or desirable in connection with projects undertaken in accordance with the provisions of the present agreement .

7. Term The present agreement shall remain in effect for a
period of ten years from the date of its entry into force and may be
continued in force for an additional period by written agreement to

Duration; termination.

that effect by the two Governments, but either Government may

terminate the present agreement by giving to the other Government notice in writing sixty days in advance.
It is understood , of course, that participation by the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey on behalf of the Government of the United States of America, and of the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral on behalf of the Government of Brazil , in the projects contemplated by the agreement, will depend upon the availability of funds appropriated by the Congress of the United States of America and the Congress of the United States of Brazil .
Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency indicating that the foregoing principles and procedures are acceptable to the Government of the United States of Brazil, the Government of the United States of America will consider that this note and your reply con-

Entry into force.

stitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject , the agreement to enter into force on the date of Your Excellency's note.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON His Excellency
Ambassador HILDEBRANDO P. P. ACCIOLY,

Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rio de Janeiro.

3640

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

The Brazilian Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

DAI/DE/144/592.6 (00)

MINISTERIO DAS RELAÇÕES EXTERIORES , RIO DE JANEIRO .
Em 26 de novembro de 1948.

SENHOR EMBAIXADOR, Tenho a honra de acusar o recebimento da nota nº 303 , desta mesma

data, na qual Vossa Excelência se refere às conversações realizadas entre as autoridades brasileiras e os representantes do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América , a respeito do prosseguimento do pro-

grama de cooperação , estabelecido em 1940 , para o estudo dos recursos minerais do Brasil, por meio de pesquisas geológicas , localização das jazidas, ensaios de beneficiamento e projetos correlatos, e com o fim de impulsionar a colaboração científica entre geólogos , engenheiros e metalurgistas brasileiros e americanos , nos diversos projetos relacionados com a economia mineira dos dois países . 2. Observa Vossa Excelência que das mencionadas conversações resultou mútuo acôrdo sôbre o estabelecimento de um programa de

estudo conjunto dos recursos minerais do Brasil, a ser levado a efeito por intermédio do Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral do Ministério da Agricultura , por parte do Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil, e por intermédio do "Bureau of Mines" , e do " Geological Survey" do departamento do Interior , por parte do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América , de conformidade com os seguintes princípios e processos :

1. Objetivos Gerais . O Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil, por meio do Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral do Ministério da Agricultura, e o Govêrno dos Estados Unidos da América, por meio do "Bureau of Mines" e do "Geological Survey" do Departamento do Interior, acordam em:

(a) fazer estimativas das reservas minerais do Brasil, por meio de estudos geológicos e mineralógicos , e, com especial relêvo , as dos principais minerais que fazem parte do comércio entre o Brasil e os Estados Unidos da América , e dos minerais que, embora não produzidos , até o presente, em grande quantidade , no Brasil, possam vir a ser incluídos nêsse comércio , no futuro ;
(b) estabelecer as bases científicas para o desenvolvimento daque les recursos , inclusive o preparo de mapas geológicos, topográficos e outros que se tornem necessários ;
(c) promover a troca de conhecimentos científicos e de técnicas especiais entre os dois países , sobretudo no que se refere ao levantamento geológico aéreo , ao levantamento topográfico , à geologia econômica e às pesquisas mineralógicas e sôbre água subterrânea ;
(d ) fazer pesquisas técnicas relativas à utilização industrial dos minérios brasileiros destinados ao consumo interno e à exportação;
(e) estudar, em seus pormenores , os problemas ligados à localização das jazidas , à pesquisa , à mineração , ao beneficiamento e à combustão dos carvões brasileiros.

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL- MINERAL RESOURCES PROGRAM- NOV. 26, 1948
2. Designação de Técnicos . O Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil por intermédio do Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral, designará técnicos habilitados para trabalhar nos Estados Unidos da América e no Brasil, em colaboração com os técnicos indicados pelo "Bureau of Mines " e pelo "Geological Survey" .
O Governo dos Estados Unidos da América , por intermédio do "Bureau of Mines" e do "Geological Survey", designará técnicos habilitados para realizar, quer no Brasil, quer nos Estados Unidos da América, os estudos a que se refere o paragrafo 1 .
Ambos os Governos proporcionarão amplas facilidades àqueles técnicos , a fim de que os mesmos possam realizar suas respectivas tarefas , em cada um dos dois países. 3. Projetos. O termo " projeto " , tal como é empregado no presente acôrdo , significará uma investigação a ser levada a efeito , dentro de um prazo determinado .
Os projetos específicos serão acordados mediante consultas entre o Diretor Geral do Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral e representantes da Embaixada dos Estados Unidos da América no Brasil.
Tais projetos serão traçados de forma flexível, capaz de permitir as modificações de objetivo e de métodos que se tornem necessárias para satisfazer às condições locais, na medida em que se desenvolverem os trabalhos . As revisões de maior importância serão acordadas por meio de consultas entre o Diretor Geral do Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral e os representantes da Embaixada dos Estados Unidos da América no Brasil. Os projetos não serão elaborados em base anual, mas continuarão pelo período de tempo necessário ao seu término. 4. Relatórios. As investigações feitas de conformidade com o presente acôrdo serão comunicadas para efeito de publicação pelo Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral, pelo "Bureau of Mines" e pelo "Geological Survey" ou por qualquer dos orgãos interessados. Os relatórios em questão destinar-se-ão ao uso exclusivo dos respectivos Governos até que ambos os Governos consintam na mencionada publicação .
Dado êsse consentimento , serão anunciados os locais ou o local no qual tais relatórios poderão ser examinados, ou onde terão sido publicados .
O Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral, o " Bureau of Mines" e o "Geological Survey" prepararão e fornecerão , para o uso exclusivo dos órgãos interessados dos dois Governos, relatóriosmemoranda sucintos sôbre depósitos minerais ou determinadas questões de feição especial .
Os relatórios serão normalmente preparados, em colaboração, pelos técnicos dêles encarregados . Poderão ser preparados no Brasil ou nos Estados Unidos da América . Os meios de trabalho de laboratório e de escritório serão proporcionados, no Brasil , pelo Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral , e, nos Estados Unidos da América , pelo "Bureau of Mines" e pelo " Geological Survey".

3641

3642

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
A distribuição de relatórios aos órgãos oficiais competentes do Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil e ao público dêste país estará a cargo do Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral.
A distribuição de relatórios aos órgãos oficiais competentes do Governo dos Estados Unidos da América e ao público do mesmo país estará a cargo do "Bureau of Mines" e do "Geological Survey". 5. Condições Financeiras. Os salários e as despesas dos técnicos do Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral e de seus assistentes brasileiros , tais como desenhistas , balizadores , machadeiros, guias, ajudantes de campo , motoristas, mecânicos e assistentes de laboratório que possam ser necessários à execução de qualquer projeto , serão pagos por aquele órgão .
As despesas e os salários dos técnicos do "Bureau of Mines" e do "Geological Survey" serão pagos por êsses órgãos.
O Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral custeará o transporte , pelos meios comuns , dentro do Brasil , do pessoal dos Estados Unidos da América designado para o Brasil , nos termos do presente acordo .
As despesas de laboratório feitas nos Estados Unidos da América e ligadas às pesquisas necessárias levada a efeito no "Bureau of Mines" e no "Geological Survey" serão pagas por êsses órgãos . 6. Compromissos especificos assumidos pelo Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil. O Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil concorda em:
(a) conceder a livre entrada no Brasil dos técnicos do "Bureau of Mines" e do "Geological Survey" designados para trabalhar nos projetos empreendidos nos têrmos do presente acôrdo ;
(b) conceder a entrada livre de direitos e a isenção do imposto de consumo e outros impostos ou taxas, dos petrechos , materiais e equipamento de uso profissional e pessoal dos técnicos do "Bureau of Mines" e do "Geological Survey" que forem designados para o Brasil , nos têrmos do presente acôrdo , e dos objetos de uso pessoal, vestuário , víveres e suprimentos dêsses técnicos ;
(c) conceder aos técnicos do "Bureau of Mines" e do " Geological Survey" isenção de todos os impostos brasileiros que incidam sôbre salários ;
(d) permitir, livre de impostos ou de quaisquer outros tributos oficiais, a exportação de petrechos , materiais, equipamento e objetos de uso pessoal, trazidos para o Brasil com a aprovação do Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral, nos têrmos do presente acôrdo ;
(e) permitir, livre de impostos ou de quaisquer outros tributos oficiais, a exportação de equipamentos adquiridos no Brasil com a aprovação do Departamento Nacional de Produção Mineral e pagos pelo " Bureau of Mines " e pelo " Geological Survey" ;
(f) permitir, livre de impostos, a exportação de espécimes e amostras geológicas destinadas a estudos no "Bureau of Mines" e no "Geological Survey", em conexão com os projetos empreendidos nos termos do presente acôrdo ;

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL- MINERAL RESOURCES PROGRAM- NOV. 26, 1948
(g) obter isenção de todos os tributos impostos pelos Governos estaduais sobre a remessa de amostras e sôbre o retorno do equipamento destinado a ser usado em conexão com os estudos compreendidos no presente acôrdo ;
(h) Prover, dentro dos limites impostos pelas condições locais, a utilização dos meios de transporte aéreo ou por automóvel que sejam necessários ou aconselháveis em relação aos projetos empreendidos nos termos do presente acordo .
7. Duração . O presente acôrdo vigorará pelo prazo de dez anos, a partir da data de sua entrada em vigor e poderá permanecer em vigor por um prazo adicional mediante acôrdo escrito , entre os dois Governos . Qualquer dêstes poderá, porem, denunciá-lo por meio de notificação escrita dirigida ao outro Govêrno, com sessenta dias. de antecedência .
Fica entendido que a participação do Departamento Nacional de Produção Mineral, por parte do Governo dos Estados Unidos. do Brasil, do "Bureau of Mines " e do " Geological Survey", por parte do Governo dos Estados Unidos da America, nos projetos de que trata êste acordo , dependerão dos recursos orçamentários autorizados pelo Congresso dos Estados Unidos do Brasil e pelo Congresso dos Estados Unidos da América .
3. Em resposta, cabe-me levar ao conhecimento de Vossa Excelência que o Governo brasileiro concorda com os princípios e processos acima estabelecidos , constituindo , em consequência , esta nota e a de Vossa Excelência, a que a princípio me reporto , acôrdo entre os dois Governos, sôbre êste assunto , acôrdo que entrará em vigor nesta data.
Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
HILDEBRANDO ACCIOLY
A Sua Excelência o Senhor HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON, Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América .

3643

Translation

DAI/DE/144/592.6 (00) MR. AMBASSADOR :

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS , RIO DE JANEIRO . November 26, 1948.

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of note No. 303 , dated today, in which Your Excellency refers to the conversations which have taken place between the Brazilian authorities and representatives of the Government of the United States of America with respect to

the continuation of the cooperative program established in 1940 for the study of the mineral resources of Brazil by means of geological investigations, prospecting, benefication tests and related projects and for the purpose of furthering scientific collaboration between Brazilian and American geologists, engineers and metallurgists in
68706-52-PT. III- 66

Ante, p. 3636.

3644

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
various projects relating to the mining economies of the two countries. 2. Your Excellency observed that these conversations have resulted in a mutual agreement on the establishment of a program of joint study of the mineral resources of Brazil, to be carried out by the Departamento Nacional da Produção Mineral do Ministério da Agricultura on behalf of the Government of the United States of Brazil, and by the Bureau of Mines and the Geological Survey of the Department of Interior on behalf of the Government of the United States of America, in accordance with the following principles and procedures :
[For the English language text of these principles and procedures , see p . 3636.] 3. In reply, I am to inform Your Excellency that the Brazilian Government is in agreement with the principles and procedures established above . Consequently, this note and Your Excellency's note to which I referred at the beginning will constitute an agreement between the two Governments on this subject, that agreement to enter into force on this date .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration .
HILDEBRANDO ACCIOLY
His Excellency HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON, Ambassador of the United States of America.

62 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-OCCUPATION ZONES, GERMANY-DEC. 31 , 1948 3645

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting economic fusion of American and British Zones of Occupation in Germany, extending
the agreement of December 2, 1946, as amended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington December 31 , 1948; entered into force December 31 , 1948.

December 31, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1883]

The British Ambassador to the Secretary of State

BRITISH EMBASSY,

Ref. 90/137/48

WASHINGTON, D. C. December 31, 1948.

12442

SIR,

I have the honour to refer to the discussions which have taken place

between His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom and the Government of the United States of America on the subject of

the extension of the Agreement between the two Governments con-

cerning the British and American Zones of Occupation in Germany. His Majesty's Government has had under consideration the ob-
ligation assumed by the United States Government and His Maj-

esty's Government in the United Kingdom under paragraph 11 ( b)

of the revised Fusion Agreement signed at Washington on December 17, 1947, to consult together before December 1, 1948 to consider the terms and conditions of a new agreement .

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 p. 3616.

His Majesty's Government had hoped that it would be possible

to replace the existing Fusion Agreement on January 1, 1949 by a new Agreement to which the French Government would be a party, providing for the economic fusion of the Three Western Zones of Occupation. It now seems clear, however, that until the new ar-

rangements relating to Germany arising out of the six-power talks held last spring in London have matured, it would be desirable to extend the terms of the Bizonal Agreement, as amended , rather than attempt to negotiate a new agreement to include France . His

Majesty's Government believe that extension of the agreement for a three-months' period with the understanding that it can sooner be terminated by mutual agreement, is a more practical arrangement

in the circumstances than an attempt to conclude a Trizonal Fusion Agreement at this time.

In these circumstances, I have the honour to submit the following proposals for the consideration of the United States Government : -

(A) The Fusion Agreement, as amended by the Agreement signed in Washington on December 17, 1947, shall be extended to March 31 , 1949, unless sooner terminated by mutual agreement

61 Stat . , Pt . 3, p. 2475.
61 Stat . , Pt . 4 p. 3608.

3646

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

or by the conclusion of a Trizonal Fusion Agreement. The two Governments shall consult together before March 1, 1949, to consider the terms and conditions of a new agreement for a further period .

(B) During the period for which the existing Fusion Agreement is extended, His Majesty's Government will continue their contribution of supplies and services to Germany at the existing basic rate of 172 million pounds per annum (approximately the equivalent of 70 million dollars) .

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 3617.

(C) Separate discussions will take place as to the nature of goods and services to be provided by His Majesty's Government for the first three months of 1949 , if as a result of seasonal or other factors it proves impossible or difficult to supply precisely one-quarter of the quantities of the goods and services specified in the Annex to the Agreement of December 17, 1947, amending the Fusion Agreement.

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 3610.

(D) As soon as possible the Joint Export-Import Agency shall enter into negotiations with representatives of His Majesty's Government of the nature indicated in paragraph 3 ( a) of the Agreement of December 17 , 1947 , amending the Fusion Agreement.
(E) Provisions of the Fusion Agreement as amended relating to Joint Foreign Exchange Agency Accounts shall be applicable to such accounts transferred to the Bank Deutscher Laender.

Should these proposals commend themselves to the United States Government, I have the honour to suggest that this note and your reply should constitute an Agreement between our two Governments.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurance of my highest consideration,
OLIVER FRANKS.
The Honourable GEORGE C. MARSHALL, Secretary of State, United States Department of State, Washington, D. C.

The Acting Secretary of State to the British Ambassador
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Dec 31 1948
EXCELLENCY : I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of today's
date, the terms of which are as follows :
"SIR, "I have the honour to refer to the discussions which have taken
place between His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom

62 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-OCCUPATION ZONES , GERMANY- DEC. 31, 1948 3647

and the Government of the United States of America on the subject

of the extension of the Agreement between the two Governments

concerning the British and American Zones of Occupation in

Germany.

"His Majesty's Government has had under consideration the ob-

ligation assumed by the United States Government and His Maj-

esty's Government in the United Kingdom under paragraph 11 (b )

of the revised Fusion Agreement signed at Washington on December 17, 1947, to consult together before December 1, 1948 to consider the terms and conditions of a new agreement.

61 Stat . , Pt. p. 3616.

"His Majesty's Government had hoped that it would be possible to replace the existing Fusion Agreement on January 1 , 1949 by a new Agreement to which the French Government would be a party, providing for the economic fusion of the Three Western

Zones of Occupation. It now seems clear, however, that until the new arrangements relating to Germany arising out of the six-power

talks held last spring in London have matured , it would be desirable

to extend the terms of the Bizonal Agreement, as amended , rather

than attempt to negotiate a new agreement to include France. His

Majesty's Government believe that extension of the agreement for

a three-months' period with the understanding that it can sooner

be terminated by mutual agreement, is a more practical arrange-

ment in the circumstances than an attempt to conclude a Trizonal

Fusion Agreement at this time.

"In these circumstances, I have the honour to submit the following

proposals for the consideration of the United States Government :

"(A) The Fusion Agreement, as amended by the Agreement signed in Washington on December 17, 1947 , shall be extended to March 31 , 1949, unless sooner terminated by mutual agreement

61 Stat . , Pt . 3 p. 2475.
61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 3608.

or by the conclusion of a Trizonal Fusion Agreement.

The two Governments shall consult together before March 1 , 1949, to consider the terms and conditions of a new agreement for a further period.

" (B) During the period for which the existing Fusion Agreement is extended , His Majesty's Government will continue their contribution of supplies and services to Germany at the existing basic rate of 17½ million pounds per annum ( approximately the equivalent of 70 million dollars) .

"(C) Separate discussions will take place as to the nature of

goods and services to be provided by His Majesty's Government for the first three months of 1949, if as a result of seasonal or

other factors it proves impossible or difficult to supply precisely

one-quarter of the quantities of the goods and services specified in the Annex to the Agreement of December 17, 1947, amending the Fusion Agreement.

61 Stat . , Pt. 4 p. 3617.

"(D) As soon as possible the Joint Export-Import Agency shall enter into negotiations with representatives of His Majesty's Gov-

3648

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 3610.

ernment of the nature indicated in paragraph 3 ( a) of the Agreement of December 17, 1947, amending the Fusion Agreement.
"(E) Provisions of the Fusion Agreement as amended relating to Joint Foreign Exchange Agency Accounts shall be applicable to such accounts transferred to the Bank Deutscher Laender.
"Should these proposals commend themselves to the United States Government, I have the honour to suggest that this note and your reply should constitute an Agreement between our two Governments."

In reply, I have the honor to inform your Excellency that the Government of the United States accepts the proposals set forth in your note and, in accordance with the suggestion contained therein, your Excellency's note and this reply will be regarded as constituting an Agreement between our two Governments in this matter.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
ROBERT A LOVETT Acting Secretary of State
His Excellency The Right Honorable Sir OLIVER SHEWELL FRANKS , K.C.B., C.B.E., British Ambassador

62 STAT. ]

NORWAY - PASSPORT VISAS Sept. 10, 1948 Oct. 19, 1948

3649

Agreement between the United States of America and Norway respecting waiver of passport visas for American citizens proceeding to Spitsbergen, Jan Mayen, and certain Norwegian dependencies . Effected by exchange of notes dated at Washington September 10 and October 19, 1948; entered into force October 19, 1948.

September 10. and October 19, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1884)

The Norwegian Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Secretary of State

NORWEGIAN EMBASSY WASHINGTON 7, D. C.
No.: 257

The Charge d'Affaires ad interim of Norway presents his compliments to His Excellency the Secretary of State and, acting upon in-

structions from the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has the honor to inform the Secretary that notwithstanding the exchange of notes of the 7th and the 29th of July, 1947, according to which a visa is required for American citizens proceeding to Norwegian territory outside continental Norway, a visa will not be required for American citizens travelling to Svalbard ( Spitsbergen ) .

61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , p. 3101.

Further the Secretary is informed that visa-requirements for

American citizens proceeding to Jan Mayen , and the Norwegian De-

pendencies Bouvet Island, Peter I's Island and Queen Maud Land

are temporarily suspended . [ ¹ ]

WASHINGTON, D. C. , September 10, 1948.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Norwegian Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

The Acting Secretary of State presents his compliments to the Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of Norway and acknowledges the receipt of the Embassy's note No. 257 of September 10, 1948, wherein it is stated that visas will not be required for American citizens proceeding to Svalbard ( Spitsbergen) , and that visa requirements for

American citizens proceeding to Jan Mayen, and the Norwegian Dependencies Bouvet Island, Peter I's Island and Queen Maud Land

are temporarily suspended . DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

HJL

Washington, October 19, 1948.

1 The Norwegian Embassy, Sept. 30, 1948, informed the Department of State
that the term "temporarily suspended" means "temporarily waived ".

3650

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

December 30, 1948 IT. I. A. S. 1885]

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting assistance to the people of Italy under Public Law 389 , 80th Congress, extending the agreement of January 3, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes verbales dated at Rome December 30 , 1948 ; entered into force December 30, 1948.

The Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

Ministero degli Affari Esteri .D.G.A.E . - Uff . IV
N. 44/8860/698

Nota Verba le

Il Ministero degli Affari Esteri ha l'onore di far riferimento al paragrafo 2 dell'art . III dell'accordo firmato in data 3 gennaio 1948 fra il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America ed il Governo Italiano , relativo all'assistenza all'Italia in base al " Foreign Aid Act of 1947 " ( Legge del 1947 sugli Aiuti all'estero ) , il quale stabilisce che l'Accordo rimanga in vigore sino al 31 dicembre 1948 .
In seguito a conversazioni intervenute fra i rappresentanti de : due Governi è stato ritenuto opportuno di prorogare l'Accordo stesso sino al 30 giugno 1949 .
Il Governo Italiano è d'accordo circa tale proroga e la considererà effettiva qualora riceva , prima della scadenza dell'Accordo , una Nota Verbale dell'Ambasciata Americana che comunichi l'assenso del Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America alla proroga suddetta .

Roma , 11 30 dicembre 1948

LI G

AFFA

DE

RI

ERO IST MIN *

ESTERI

ALL'AMBASCIATA DEGLI STATI UNITI D'AMERICA ROMA

62 STAT. ]

ITALY-ASSISTANCE- DEC. 30, 1948

3651

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS D. G. A. E.-Uff. IV N. 44/8860/698
NOTE

VERBALE

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor to refer to para-
graph 2 of Article III of the Agreement signed on January 3 , 1948 62 Stat . , Pt. 2 p. 1810.
between the Government of the United States of America and the

Italian Government concerning assistance to Italy under the Foreign Aid Act of 1947 , which establishes that the Agreement is to remain in effect until December 31 , 1948.
As a result of conversations which took place between the repre-

61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 934. 22 U. S. C., Supp. I, § 1411 note. 62 Stat . , Pt . 1,
p. 138.

sentatives of the two Governments, it has been considered advisable

to extend the said Agreement to June 30, 1949. The Italian Government agrees to such an extension, and will con-

sider it to be in effect upon the receipt, before the expiration of the

Agreement, of a Note Verbale from the American Embassy com-

municating the assent of the Government of the United States of America to the above-mentioned extension .

ROME, December 30, 1948

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

The EMBASSY OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

Rome.

The American Embassy to the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs

No. 2256

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
NOTE VERBALE

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compli-

ments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to refer

to the Ministry's Note Verbale No. 44/8860/698 of December 30, 1948, with reference to the extension of the Agreement signed on January 3 , 1948 , between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Italy, providing assistance to Italy under the Foreign Aid Act of 1947.
The Embassy is pleased to inform the Ministry that the extension of the abovementioned Agreement until June 30, 1949 is acceptable

62Stat. , Pt. 2, p. 1807.
61 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 934. 22 U. S. C. , Supp. I, 164211 Snottaet. . , Pt . 1, p. 138 .

to the Government of the United States of America.

ROME, December 30, 1948. ofthe n

Embassy otfhe

ofAmerica States

ROME To the
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS , Rome.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TRADE, WESTERN GERMANY- SEPT. 14, 1948

3653

Agreement between the United States of America and other governments respecting the application of most-favored-nation treatment to areas of Western Germany under occupation or control . Dated at Geneva September 14 , 1948; entered into force, with respect to the United States, October 14, 1948.

September 14, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1886]

AGREEMENT ON MOST-FAVOURED -NATION TREATMENT
FOR AREAS OF WESTERN GERMANY UNDER MILITARY OCCUPATION signed at Geneva, on 14 September 1948
ACCORD CONCERNANT L'APPLICATION DE LA CLAUSE DE LA NATION LA PLUS FAVORISEE AUX ZONES DE L'ALLEMAGNE OCCIDENTALE SOUMISES A L'OCCUPATION MILITAIRE
signé à Genève, le 14 septembre 1948

3654

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

AGREEMENT ON MOST-FAVOURED-NATION TREATMENT FOR AREAS OF WESTERN GERMANY UNDER MILITARY OCCUPATION

Being desirous of facilitating to the fullest extent possible the reconstruction and recovery of the world from the destruction wrought by the recent war,
Believing that one of the most important steps towards such reconstruction and recovery on a sound basis is the restoration of international trade in accordance with the principles of the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization, [ '] and
Considering that the application of reciprocal most-favoured-nation treatment to the trade of the areas of Western Germany under military occupation will contribute to the foregoing objectives ,
The signatories agree to the following provisions :

ARTICLE I

Post, p. 3656.

For such time as any signatory of this Agreement participates in the

occupation or control of any area in Western Germany, each of the

signatories shall accord to the merchandise trade of such area the

treatment provided for in the most-favoured-nation provisions of the

61 Stat. , Pts . 5 and 6. General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated 30 October 1947, as now or hereafter amended .

ARTICLE II

Post,p. 3656.

The undertaking by a signatory provided for in Article I shall apply

to the merchandise trade of any area referred to therein only for such

time and to such extent as such area accords reciprocal most-favoured-

nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the territory of such

signatory .

ARTICLE III

The undertaking in Article I is entered into in the light of the absence, on the date of this Agreement , of effective or significant tariff barriers to imports into the areas referred to therein . In the event that effective or significant tariff barriers are thereafter imposed in any such area, such undertaking shall be without prejudice to the application by any signatory of the principles relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis which are set forth in the Havana Charter for an International Trade Organization .
ARTICLE IV

The rights and obligations established by this Agreement are to be understood as entirely independent of any rights or obligations which
1 Department of State publication 3117.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TRADE, WESTERN GERMANY- SEPT. 14, 1948

3655

are or may be established by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or by the Havana Charter.

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

ARTICLE V
1. This Agreement shall be open for signature at Geneva on this day and shall remain open for signature thereafter at the Headquarters of the United Nations . The Agreement shall enter into force for each signatory upon the expiration of thirty days from the day on which such signatory signs the Agreement.
2. The undertakings in this Agreement shall remain in force until 1 January 1951 , and, except for any signatory which at least six months before 1 January 1951 shall have deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations a notice in writing of intention to withdraw from this Agreement on that date, they shall remain in force thereafter subject to the right of any signatory to withdraw upon the expiration of six months from the date on which such a notice shall have been so deposited .
3. On the request of any three signatories to this Agreement , and in any event not later than 1 January 1951 , the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands shall promptly convene a meeting of all signatories with a view to reviewing the operation of the Agreement and agreeing upon such revisions as may be appropriate.

Open for signature. Entry into force. Duration .
Review.

ARTICLE VI

1. The interpretative notes to this Agreement which are contained in the Annex shall constitute an integral part thereof.
2. The original of this Agreement shall be deposited with the

Deposit of original; registration .

Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall send a certified copy thereof to each member of the United Nations and to each

country which participated in the United Nations Conference on

Trade and Employment, and he is authorized to effect registration thereof pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations .

59 Stat. 1052.

3. The Secretary-General shall notify each signatory of the date of each signature of this Agreement subsequent to the date of the Agreement or of any notice of intention to withdraw pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article V.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the respective representatives , duly authorized, have signed this Agreement.
DONE at Geneva, in a single copy, in the English and French languages, both texts authentic, this fourteenth day of September 1948.

Authentic texts.

3656 Ante, p. 3654.
Ante, p. 3654. Ante, p. 3654.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
ANNEX
INTERPRETATIVE NOTES
1. It is recognized that the absence of a uniform rate of exchange for the currency of the areas in Western Germany, referred to in Article I may have the effect of indirectly subsidizing the exports of such areas to an extent which it would be difficult to calculate exactly. So long as such a condition exists, and if consultation with the appropriate authorities fails to result within a reasonable time in an agreed solution to the problem, it is understood that it would not be inconsistent with the undertaking in Article I for any signatory to levy a countervailing duty on imports of such goods, equivalent to the estimated amount of such subsidization , where such signatory determines that the subsidization is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry or is such as to prevent or materially retard the establishment of a domestic industry. In circumstances of special urgency , where delay would cause damage which it would be difficult to repair , action may be taken provisionally
without prior consultation, on the condition that consultation shall be effected immediately after taking such action .
2. The reference to the most-favoured-nation provisions of the General Agreement is understood to cover all the provisions of the General Agreement relevant to most-favoured-nation treatment as well as Article I.
3. The standard of the treatment to be accorded is set by all the most-favoured-nation provisions of the General Agreement (including the exceptions) and accordingly, under the reciprocity clause of Article II of this Agreement, the same standard would be used to measure the treatment received . If in the judgment of a signatory , that signatory was not actually receiving the most- favoured-nation treatment conforming to the standard , it would not consider itself obligated to grant treatment in accordance with the standard . Differences of view between signatories would naturally, however, be the subject of consultation .
4. The reference in Article III to "the principles relating to the reduction of tariffs on a mutually advantageous basis which are set forth in the Havana Charter" , is designed to permit a signatory to withhold most- favoured-nation treatment in the event of the failure of an area under occupation-assuming that significant or effective tariffs were to be imposed by such area- to negotiate in accordance with the principles of Article 17 of the Havana Charter and in conformity with the established procedure for tariff negotiations.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL - TRADE, WESTERN GERMANY- SEPT. 14, 1948

3657

ACCORD CONCERNANT L'APPLICATION DE LA CLAUSE DE LA NATION LA PLUS FAVORISEE AUX ZONES DE L'ALLEMAGNE OCCIDENTALE SOUMISES A L'OCCUPATION MILITAIRE
Désireux de faciliter dans la plus large mesure possible la reconstruction et le relèvement du monde après les destructions qu'a amenées la dernière guerre,
Persuadés que pour donner un caractère rationnel à cette reconstruction et à ce relèvement, une des mesures les plus importantes consiste à rétablir le mouvement des échanges internationaux , selon les principes définis par la Charte de La Havane instituant une Organisation internationale du Commerce,
Considérant que l'application réciproque de la clause de la nation la plus favorisée au commerce des zones de l'Allemagne occidentale soumises à l'occupation militaire permettra d'atteindre plus facilement les buts envisagés,
Les signataires sont convenus des dispositions suivantes :
ARTICLE PREMIER
Aussi longtemps qu'un signataire du présent Accord participera à l'occupation ou au contrôle d'un territoire de l'Allemagne occidentale, chaque signataire appliquera au commerce d'un tel territoire les dispositions de l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce , en date du 30 octobre 1947 , telles qu'elles sont maintenant ou telles qu'elles seront ultérieurement amendées , relatives au traitement de la nation la plus favorisée.
ARTICLE II
L'engagement contracté par un signataire en vertu de l'article premier ne s'appliquera au commerce des zones ci-dessus mentionnées que pendant la période et dans la mesure où lesdites zones accorderont réciproquement le traitement de la nation la plus favorisée au commerce du territoire de ce signataire.
ARTICLE III
L'engagement contracté à l'article premier est pris en considération du fait qu'à la date du présent Accord , il n'existe pas de barrières douanières effectives ou de réelle importance qui s'opposeraient aux importations dans les zones ainsi définies. Dans le cas où de telles barrières viendraient à y être établies , ledit engagement ne préjugerait en rien l'application, par l'un quelconque des signataires, des principes énoncés dans la Charte de La Havane, instituant une Organisation internationale du Commerce au sujet de la réduction des tarifs sur une base d'avantages mutuels.

3658

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
ARTICLE IV
Les droits et obligations établis en vertu du présent Accord doivent être considérés comme étant entièrement indépendants de tous droits et obligations qui sont ou peuvent être établis aux termes de l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce ou de la Charte de La Havane .
ARTICLE V
1. Le présent Accord sera ouvert ce jour à la signature à Genève. Il pourra ensuite être signé à tout moment au siège des Nations Unies. Il entrera en vigueur pour chacun des signataires à l'expiration d'un délai de trente jours à compter de la date à laquelle ce signataire y aura apposé sa signature .
2. Les engagements convenus dans le présent Accord demeureront en vigueur jusqu'au 1er janvier 1951 et, sauf à l'égard de tout signataire qui aurait , six mois au moins avant le 1er janvier 1951 , donné au Secrétaire général des Nations Unies préavis par écrit de son intention de se retirer du présent Accord à cette date, ils demeureront en vigueur sous réserve du droit, pour tout signataire, de cesser d'y participer à l'expiration d'un délai de six mois à partir de la date à laquelle aura été signifiée son intention .
3. A la demande de trois signataires du présent Accord, et en tout cas le 1er janvier 1951 au plus tard, le Gouvernement du Royaume des Pays-Bas convoquera sans délai une réunion de tous les signataires à l'effet d'examiner le fonctionnement du présent Accord et de convenir des revisions qui sembleraient appropriées .
ARTICLE VI
1. Les notes interprétatives du présent Accord qui figurent à l'annexe font partie intégrante dudit Accord.
2. L'original de l'Accord sera déposé auprès du Secrétaire général de l'Organisation des Nations Unies. Celui-ci adressera une copie certifiée conforme à tous les Etats Membres des Nations Unies et à tous les autres pays qui ont participé à la Conférence des Nations Unies sur le commerce et l'emploi . Le Secrétaire général est autorisé à procéder à l'enregistrement du présent Accord conformément au paragraphe premier de l'Article 102 de la Charte des Nations Unies.
3. Le Secrétaire général notifiera à tout signataire du présent Accord la date de toute signature postérieure à la date du présent Accord ainsi que tout préavis de retrait adressé en vertu des dispositions du paragraphe 2 de l'article V ci-dessus .
EN FOI DE QUOI , les représentants soussignés, dûment autorisés, ont signé le présent Accord.
FAIT à Genève en un seul exemplaire rédigé dans les langues française et anglaise, les deux textes faissant également foi , le quatorze septembre 1948.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-TRADE, WESTERN GERMANY-- SEPT. 14, 1948
ANNEXE
NOTES INTERPRÉTATIVES
1. Il est reconnu que l'absence d'un taux de change uniforme dans les zones d'Allemagne occidentale visées à l'article premier pourrait avoir l'effet de subventionner indirectement les exportations de ces zones d'une façon qu'il serait difficile de calculer exactement . Aussi longtemps que ces circonstances existeront, et si des consultations avec les autorités compétentes ne permettent pas de résoudre ce problème d'un commun accord dans un délai raisonnable, il est entendu qu'il ne serait pas contraire aux engagements pris à l'article premier qu'un signataire frappe les importations de ces marchandises d'un droit compensateur équivalent au montant estimé de cette subvention , lorsque ledit signataire juge que cette subvention est telle qu'elle cause ou qu'elle menace de causer des dommages importants à une industrie nationale existante, ou qu'elle empêche ou retarde sensiblement l'établissement d'une industrie nationale. En cas d'urgence particulière , alors que tout délai risquerait d'entraîner des dommages difficiles à réparer, des décisions d'un caractère provisoire, prises sans procéder à des consultations préalables , seront admises, étant entendu que des consultations auront lieu immédiatement après que ces décisions auront été prises .
2. Il est entendu que la mention des dispositions de l'Accord général relatives au traitement de la nation la plus favorisée vise toutes les dispositions de l'Accord général se rapportant au traitement de la nation la plus favorisée aussi bien que l'article premier.
3. La norme du traitement à accorder résulte de l'ensemble des dispositions de l'Accord général relatives au traitement de la nation la plus favorisée (y compris les exceptions) et, en conséquence, conformément à la clause de réciprocité de l'article II du présent Accord , la même norme servira à apprécier le traitement reçu . Si , de l'avis de l'un des signataires, celui-ci ne reçoit pas effectivement le traitement de la nation la plus favorisée conformément à la norme, il ne se considérera pas comme obligé d'accorder un traitement conforme à la norme. Toutefois , les divergences de vues entre les signataires feront naturellement l'objet de consultations .
4. La mention , à l'article III, des "principes énoncés dans la Charte de La Havane instituant une Organisation internationale du Commerce au sujet de la réduction des tarifs sur une base d'avantages mutuels " a pour objet de permettre à un signataire de refuser d'accorder le traitement de la nation la plus favorisée dans le cas où un territoire occupé à supposer que ce territoire veuille imposer des tarifs effectifs ou de réelle importance-ne négocierait pas conformément aux principes de l'article 17 de la Charte de La Havane et suivant la procédure établie pour les négociations tarifaires .

3659

3660

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
For the Kingdom of Norway TORFINN OFTEDAL
Pelos Estados Unidos do Brasil Ad referendum Para ter efeito trinta dias após a notificação ao Secretario Geral das Nações Unidas
JOÃO CARLOS MUNIZ
For Pakistan S. HASNIE
For Ceylon Ad referendum Signature to be effective thirty days after notification to SecretaryGeneral of U.N. [1]
O. GOONETILLEKE
For India Ad referendum Signature to be effective thirty days after notification to SecretaryGeneral of U.N. [2]
C. DESAI
For the United Kingdom R. SHACKLE
For the United States of America LEROY D. STINEBOWER
Pour la République française ANDRÉ PHILIP
For the Kingdom of the Netherlands E. DE VRIES
Pour la Belgique M. SUETENS
Pour le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg J. WOULBROUN
For Canada E. D. WILGRESS
1 Instrument of acceptance was deposited with the Secretary- General of the United Nations on Dec. 9, 1948.
· Instrument of acceptance was deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations on Nov. 1, 1948.

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-TRADE, WESTERN GERMANY- SEPT . 14, 1948

For the Union of South Africa Ad referendum Signature to be effective thirty days after notification to SecretaryGeneral of U.N.
L. C. STEYN
14 October 1948 [']

Certified true copy. For the Secretary- General:

Copie certifiée conforme. Pour le Secrétaire général :

Dr I. KERNO Assistant Secretary- General in charge of the Legal Department
Secrétaire général adjoint chargé du Département juridique

¹ Date on which the agreement was signed on behalf of the Union of South Africa .

3661

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3663

Multilateral protocol for the accession of signatories of the Final Act of October 30, 1947, General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Signed at Geneva September 14 , 1948; entered into force September 14 , 1948 .

September 14, 1948 [ T. I. A. S. 1887]

PROTOCOL FOR
THE ACCESSION OF SIGNATORIES OF THE
FINAL ACT OF 30 OCTOBER 1947
PROTOCOLE POUR
L'ADHESION DES SIGNATAIRES DE
L'ACTE FINAL DU 30 OCTOBRE 1947

3664

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

PROTOCOL FOR THE ACCESSION OF SIGNATORIES OF THE FINAL ACT OF 30 OCTOBER 1947

Considering the fact that the Protocol of Provisional Application of p.6A1205S1t.at . , Pt . 6 , the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which by its terms re-
mained open for signature until 30 June 1948, was not by that date signed by all the Governments signatory to the Final Act of the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations 61 Stat. , Pt. 5 , p . A7. Conference on Trade and Employment,

Considering the resolution of the second session of the CONTRACTING PARTIES that such a Government shall not be considered to be a

61 Stat . , Pt . 5, P. 175.

"party" to the General Agreement within the meaning of article XXXIII thereof, and
Considering the desirability of affording an additional opportunity for the provisional application between such a Government and the

contracting parties of the provisions of the General Agreement which was concluded at the second session of the Preparatory Committee and authenticated on 30 October 1947,

It is agreed with regard to the terms upon which such a Government, by signature of the present Protocol, may accede under article XXXIII of the General Agreement :

p.64169.Stat . , Pt . 5 ,

1. Any such Government shall, without prejudice to its right to accept the General Agreement under article XXVI , apply the General Agreement, as amended and rectified , provisionally in accordance with

the provisions of paragraphs 1 ( a) , 1 ( b ) , and 5 of the Protocol of Propp6.1A2S0t51a,tA.2,05P2t. . 6 , visional Application. Such Government shall also have the right of
election provided for in subparagraph ( d ) of paragraph 1 of article P.6A145S. tat . , Pt . 5 , XIV of the General Agreement as if it had signed the Protocol of Pro-
visional Application before 1 July 1948 ; Provided the written notice of such election is communicated to the CONTRACTING PARTIES before 1

Effective date.

January 1949 or before the day on which such Government becomes a contracting party, whichever is the later.
2. Such provisional application shall take effect for any such Gov-

ernment on the thirtieth day after the signature hereof by such Govern-

ment ; Provided such signature is affixed before 17 February 1949 ; and Provided further that this Protocol has on the day of such signature been signed by two-thirds of the Governments then contracting parties

to the General Agreement. Upon signature of this Protocol by twothirds of the contracting parties it shall constitute a decision for the

P.6A175.Stat . , Pt . 5 , Deposit of original ;
registration .

purpose of article XXXIII of the General Agreement. 3. The original of this Protocol shall be deposited with the Secre-
tary-General of the United Nations, where it will remain open for sig-

nature. The Secretary-General is authorized to effect registration of the Protocol.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the respective representatives, duly authorized, have signed the present Protocol.
DONE at Geneva, in a single copy, in the English and French languages, both texts authentic, this 14th day of September, 1948.

3665 Post, p. 3668. Authentic texts.

3666

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

PROTOCOLE POUR L'ADHESION DES SIGNATAIRES DE L'ACTE FINAL DU 30 OCTOBRE 1947
Considérant que le Protocole d'application provisoire de l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce qui, en vertu de ses stipulations, est resté ouvert à la signature jusqu'au 30 juin 1948, n'avait pas, à cette date, été signé par tous les Gouvernements signataires de l'Acte final de la deuxième session de la Commission préparatoire de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur le commerce et l'emploi,
Eu égard à la résolution de la deuxième session des PARTIES CONTRACTANTES aux termes de laquelle un Gouvernement qui n'a pas signé le Protocole d'application provisoire à cette date ne doit pas être considéré comme " partie" à l'Accord général aux termes de l'article XXXIII dudit Accord,
Considérant qu'il est souhaitable de fournir à un Gouvernement se trouvant dans ce cas une nouvelle occasion d'appliquer provisoirement, dans ses relations avec les parties contractantes, les dispositions de l'Accord général conclu à l'issue de la deuxième session de la Commission préparatoire et authentiqué le 30 octobre 1947,
Il est convenu, en ce qui concerne les conditions dans lesquelles un Gouvernement se trouvant dans ce cas pourra, en signant le présent Protocole, adhérer conformément aux dispositions de l'article XXXIII de l'Accord général :
1. Que tout Gouvernement se trouvant dans ce cas devra, sans préjudice du droit qu'il possède d'accepter les dispositions de l'Accord général en vertu de l'article XXVI , appliquer provisoirement l'Accord général, tel qu'il a été amendé et rectifié, conformément aux dispositions des paragraphes 1 a) , 1 b ) et 5 du Protocole d'application provisoire. Ledit Gouvernement aura également le droit de choisir les dispositions applicables , qui est prévu à l'alinéa d) du paragraphe 1 de l'article XIV de l'Accord général, comme s'il avait signé le Protocole d'application provisoire avant le 1er juillet 1948 ; à condition, toutefois, que la notification écrite de ce choix soit communiquée aux ParTIES CONTRACTANTES avant le 1er janvier 1949 ou avant la date à laquelle ledit Gouvernement deviendra partie contractante si cette dernière
date est postérieure. 2. Ladite application provisoire prendra effet, à l'égard de tout
Gouvernement se trouvant dans ce cas, le trentième jour qui suivra la signature du présent Protocole par ledit Gouvernement, à condition que cette signature soit déposée avant le 17 février 1949 et à condition, en outre, que le présent Protocole ait, à la date de cette signature, été signé par les deux tiers des Gouvernements alors parties contractantes à l'Accord général. La signature du présent Protocole par les deux

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948
tiers des parties contractantes constituera une décision aux fins de l'article XXXIII de l'Accord général .
3. Le texte original du présent Protocole sera déposé auprès du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies et il y restera ouvert à la signature. Le Secrétaire général est habilité à faire enregistrer le présent Protocole .
EN FOI DE QUOI les représentants soussignés, dûment autorisés, ont signé le présent Protocole.
FAIT à Genève, en un seul exemplaire, rédigé dans les langues française et anglaise, les deux textes faisant également foi, le 14 septembre mil neuf cent quarante-huit.

3667

68706-52--PT. III- -67

3668

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

For the Commonwealth of Australia:

Pour le Commonwealth d'Australie:
JOHN A. TONKIN

For the Kingdom of Belgium:

Pour le Royaume de Belgique:

M. SUETENS

For the United States of Brazil:

Pour les Etats- Unis du Brésil :

JOÃO CARLOS MUNIZ

For Burma:

SAW OHN TIN

Pour la Birmanie:

For Canada:

L. D. WILGRESS

Pour le Canada:

For Ceylon :

O. E. GOONETILLEKE

Pour Ceylan:

For the Republic of China:

Pour la République de Chine:

WUNSZ KING

For the Republic of Cuba :

Pour la République de Cuba: S. CLARK

For the Czechoslovak Republic : Pour la République tchécoslovaque :

For the French Republic :

Pour la République française:

ANDRÉ PHILIP

For India:
For Lebanon :
For the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:

C. DESAI M. MOBARAK J. WOULBROUN

Pour l'Inde:
Pour le Liban:
Pour le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg:

For the Kingdom of the Netherlands : Pour le Royaume des Pays-Bas : E. DE VRIES

For New Zealand :

Pour la Nouvelle- Zélande: L. S. NICOL

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

For the Kingdom of Norway:

Pour le Royaume de Norvège :

TORFINN OFTEDAL

For Pakistan:

S. A. HASNIE

Pour le Pakistan :

For Southern Rhodesia : [1]

Pour la Rhodésie du Sud:

For Syria:

H. DJEBBARA

Pour la Syrie:

For the Union of South Africa: [ ]

Pour l'Union Sud-Africaine :

For the United Kingdom of Great Pour le Royaume-Uni de Grande-

Britain and Northern Ireland:

Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord :

R. SHACKLE

Forthe United States of America : Pour les Etats- Unis d'Amérique : LEROY D. STINEBOWER

For the Republic of Chile : [ ³]
¹ Signed Feb. 8, 1949. ' Signed Feb. 16, 1949. ' Signed Feb. 14, 1949.

Pour la République du Chili:

3669

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3671

Second multilateral protocol of rectifications to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. Signed at Geneva September 14, 1948; entered into force September 14, 1948.

September 14, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1888]

SECOND PROTOCOL OF RECTIFICATIONS
TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT
ON TARIFFS AND TRADE
DEUXIEME PROTOCOLE DE RECTIFICATION
DE L'ACCORD GENERAL SUR LES TARIFS
DOUANIERS ET LE COMMERCE

3672

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

SECOND PROTOCOL OF RECTIFICATIONS TO THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

The Governments of the Commonwealth of Australia, the Kingdom of Belgium, the United States of Brazil , Burma, Canada, Ceylon, the Republic of China , the Republic of Cuba, the Czechoslovak Republic, the French Republic , India , Lebanon, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands , New Zealand, the Kingdom of Norway, Pakistan , Southern Rhodesia, Syria , the Union of South Africa, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America , acting in their capacity of contract61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and6. ing parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and
The Government of the Republic of Chile, acting in its capacity of signatory of the Final Act adopted at the conclusion of the second session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Con61 Stat. , Pt. 5 , p . 47. ference on Trade and Employment which authenticated the text of
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Having noted that certain further rectifications should be made in the authentic texts of the Schedules forming part of the General

61 Stat . , Pt. 5 , Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,

p. 491 et seq.

Hereby agree that the following rectifications shall be made in the

Schedule to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade :

SCHEDULE XVIII-UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA ( This schedule is authentic only in the English language. )

PART I
Most-favoured-nation Tariff
Item 224 ex (d) 61 Stat . , Pt . 5 , In the English text of item 224 ex ( d) the description of products P. A1059.
shall read : "Caffeine, theobromine , emetine and natural methol"
SCHEDULE XX-UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ( This schedule is authentic only in the English language. )

PART I

Most-favoured-nation Tariff

61 Stat. , Pt . 5, p. A1227.

Item 708 (a) In the English text of item 708 ( a ) the principal description shall be :
"Milk, condensed or evaporated : "

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3673

Item 1110 In the English text of item 1110 the rate of duty shall be : "33c per lb. and 25% ad val."

61 Stat . , Pt. 5, p. A1275.

Item 1503 (third) In the English text of the third item 1503 the proviso shall read :

61 Stat . , Pt . 5 , p. A1298.

"Provided, That for the purpose only of applying the second proviso to paragraph 1503, Tariff Act of 1930, to articles provided for in this item , each rate of duty "existing" ( within the meaning of Section 350, Tariff Act of 1930, as amended by the Act of 5 July 1945 ) on 1 January 1945, shall be reduced by 50 per centum of such rate. "

46 Stat. 658. 19 U. S. C. § 1001 .
59 Stat. 410. 19 U. S. C. § 1351; Supp. I, 1351 note. 62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 1053.

The provisions of this Protocol shall on and after this day consti-

tute an integral part of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated 30 October 1947, and the rectifications included herein shall be

61 Stat., Pts. 5 and 6.

applied as if they had formed a part of said Agreement on that date. The original of this Protocol shall be deposited with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations, who is authorized to effect registration thereof.

Deposit of original; registration .

Post, p. 3676. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the respective representatives , duly authorized,

have signed the present Protocol. DONE at Geneva, in a single copy, in the English and French lan-

Authentic texts.

guages, both texts authentic, this 14th day of September, 1948.

3674

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

DEUXIEME PROTOCOLE DE RECTIFICATION DE L'ACCORD GENERAL SUR LES TARIFS DOUANIERS ET LE COMMERCE
Les Gouvernements du Commonwealth d'Australie, du Royaume de Belgique, de la Birmanie, des Etats-Unis du Brésil, du Canada, de Ceylan, de la République de Chine, de la République de Cuba , des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de la République française, de l'Inde, du Liban, du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg, de la Norvège, de la NouvelleZélande, du Pakistan, du Royaume des Pays-Bas , de la Rhodésie du Sud, du Royaume-Uni de Grande- Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , de la Syrie, de la République tchécoslovaque et de l'Union Sud-Africaine, agissant en leur qualité de parties contractantes à l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce,
Le Gouvernement de la République du Chili , agissant en sa qualité de signataire de l'Acte final adopté à l'issue de la deuxième session de la Commission préparatoire de la Conférence des Nations Unies sur le commerce et l'emploi , lequel a rendu authentique le texte de l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce,
Ayant constaté que d'autres rectifications doivent être apportées aux textes authentiques des listes faisant partie de l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce,
Conviennent par les présentes d'apporter aux listes faisant partie de l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce, les rectifications suivantes :
LISTE XVIII- UNION SUD-AFRICAINE (Seul fait foi le texte anglais de cette liste. )
PREMIÈRE PARTIE
Tarif de la nation la plus favorisée
Position 224 ex ( d)
Dans le texte anglais de la position 224 ex ( d) , la désignation des produits est la suivante :
"caféine, théobromine, émétine, émenthol naturel".

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948
LISTE XX-ETATS-UNIS D'AMÉRIQUE (Seul fait foi le texte anglais de cette liste. )
PREMIÈRE PARTIE
Tarif de la nation la plus favorisée
Position 708 (a)
Dans le texte anglais de la position 708 ( a) , la désignation principale des produits est la suivante :
"lait condensé ou évaporé".
Position 1110
Dans le texte anglais de la position 1110, "le droit est fixé à 0,33 par livre et à 25% ad val.".
Position 1503 ( troisième)
Dans le texte anglais de la troisième position 1503 , le texte de la disposition est le suivant :
"Toutefois, uniquement en vue d'appliquer la deuxième disposition du No 1503 de la loi de 1930 sur les tarifs aux articles dénommés sous la présente position, chaque droit "existant " (au sens où l'entend la section 350 de la loi de 1930 sur les tarifs modifiée par la loi du 5 juillet 1945 ) à la date du 1er janvier 1945 sera réduit de 50% ."
A partir de la date du présent Protocole, les dispositions du présent Protocole feront partie intégrante de l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce, en date du 30 octobre 1947, et les rectifications qu'il contient devront être appliquées comme si elles avaient figuré dans ledit Accord général à la date précitée.
Le texte original du présent Protocole sera déposé auprès du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies qui est autorisé à procéder à son enregistrement.
EN FOI DE QUOI les représentants dûment autorisés des Gouvernements susmentionnés ont signé le présent Protocole.
FAIT à Genève, en un seul exemplaire, rédigé dans les langues française et anglaise, les deux textes faisant également foi, le 14 septembre 1948.

3675

68706-52-PT. III- -68

3676

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 Stat.

For the Commonwealth of Australia:

Pour le Commonwealth d'Australie:
JOHN A. TONKIN

For the Kingdom of Belgium :

Pour le Royaume de Belgique :

M. SUETENS

For the United States of Brazil :

Pour les Etats- Unis du Brésil:

JOÃO CARLOS MUNIZ

For Burma:

SAW OHN TIN

Pour la Birmanie:

For Canada :

L. D. WILGRESS

Pour le Canada:

For Ceylon:

O. E. GOONETILLEKE

Pour Ceylan:

For the Republic of Chile:

Pour la République du Chili :

F. GARCIA OLDINI

For the Republic of China :

Pour la République de Chine :

WUNSZ KING

For the Republic of Cuba:

Pour la République de Cuba: S. CLARK

For the Czechoslovak Republic : Pour la République tchécoslovaque: Z. AUGENTHALER

For the French Republic:

Pour la République française:

ANDRÉ PHILIP

For India:

C. DESAI

Pour l'Inde:

For Lebanon:

M. MOBARAK

Pour le Liban:

For the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg :

J. WOULBROUN

Pour le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg:

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

For the Kingdom of the Netherlands :

E. DE VRIES

Pour le Royaume des Pays-Bas:

For New Zealand :

Pour la Nouvelle-Zélande : L. S. NICOL

For the Kingdom ofNorway:

Pour le Royaume de Norvège :

TORFINN OFTEDAL

For Pakistan:

S. A. HASNIE

Pour le Pakistan :

For Southern Rhodesia:

Pour la Rhodésie du Sud: R. SHACKLE

For Syria:

H. DJEBBARA

Pour la Syrie:

For the Union of South Africa :

Pour l'Union Sud-Africaine :

A. J. NORVAL

For the United Kingdom of Great Pour le Royaume- Uni de Grande-

Britain and Northern Ireland :

Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord:

R. SHACKLE

For the United States of America: Pour les Etats-Unis d'Amérique: LEROY D. STINEBOWER

3677

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3679

Multilateral protocol modifying part II and article XXVI ofthe General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of October 30, 1947. Signed at Geneva September 14, 1948; entered into force December 14, 1948.

S[eTp.teIm. bAe.r S1.4,1819904]8

PROTOCOL MODIFYING PART II AND ARTICLE XXVI
OF THE GENERAL AGREEMENT
ON TARIFFS AND TRADE
PROTOCOLE PORTANT MODIFICATION
DE LA PARTIE II ET DE L'ARTICLE XXVI
DE L'ACCORD GENERAL SUR LES TARIFS
DOUANIERS ET LE COMMERCE

3680

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

PROTOCOL MODIFYING PART II AND ARTICLE XXVI OF THE GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE

The Governments of the Commonwealth of Australia, the Kingdom of Belgium, the United States of Brazil, Burma, Canada, Ceylon, the Republic of China , the Republic of Cuba, the Czechoslovak Republic, the French Republic, India, Lebanon, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, New Zealand , the Kingdom of Norway, Pakistan, Southern Rhodesia, Syria, the Union of South Africa, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of America, acting in their capacity of con61 Stat. , Pts. 5 and 6. tracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ['] (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement) ,
Desiring to effect an amendment to the Agreement, pursuant to the 61 Stat. , Pt. 5, p. 474. provisions of article XXX thereof,

Hereby agree as follows:
1. The texts of articles III , VI , XIII , XV, XVIII and XXVI of the Agreement and certain related provisions in Annex I shall be modified as follows :
A

61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. 418. The text of article III shall read:

"ARTICLE III

Post, p. 3689. Post, p. 3690.

"National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation
"1. The contracting parties recognize that internal taxes and other internal charges , and laws , regulations and requirements affecting the internal sale, offering for sale, purchase, transportation , distribution or use of products, and internal quantitative regulations requiring the mixture, processing or use of products in specified amounts or proportions, should not be applied to imported or domestic products so as to afford protection to domestic production.
"2. The products of the territory of any contracting party imported into the territory of any other contracting party shall not be subject, directly or indirectly, to internal taxes or other internal charges of any kind in excess of those applied , directly or indirectly, to like domestic products. Moreover, no contracting party shall otherwise apply internal taxes or other internal charges to imported or domestic products in a manner contrary to the principles set forth in paragraph 1 .
"3. With respect to any existing internal tax which is inconsistent with the provisions of paragraph 2 but which is specifically authorized under a trade agreement, in force on 10 April 1947 , in which the
1 Dated Oct. 30 , 1947.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL -TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3681

import duty on the taxed product is bound against increase, the contracting party imposing the tax shall be free to postpone the application of the provisions of paragraph 2 to such tax until such time as it can obtain release from the obligations of such trade agreement in order to permit the increase of such duty to the extent necessary to compensate for the elimination of the protective element of the tax .
"4. The products of the territory of any contracting party imported into the territory of any other contracting party shall be accorded treatment no less favourable than that accorded to like products of national origin in respect of all laws , regulations and requirements affecting their internal sale, offering for sale, purchase, transportation , distribution or use. The provisions of this paragraph shall not prevent the application of differential internal transportation charges which are based exclusively on the economic operation of the means of transport and not on the nationality of the product.
"5. No contracting party shall establish or maintain any internal quantitative regulation relating to the mixture, processing or use of products in specified amounts or proportions which requires , directly or indirectly, that any specified amount or proportion of any product which is the subject of the regulation must be supplied from domestic sources. Moreover, no contracting party shall otherwise apply internal quantitative regulations in a manner contrary to the principles set forth in paragraph 1 .
"6. The provisions of paragraph 5 shall not apply to any internal quantitative regulation in force in the territory of any contracting party on 1 July 1939, 10 April 1947 , or 24 March 1948 , at the option of that contracting party ; provided that any such regulation which is contrary to the provisions of paragraph 5 shall not be modified to the detriment of imports and shall be treated as a customs duty for the purpose of negotiation.
"7. No internal quantitative regulation relating to the mixture, processing or use of products in specified amounts or proportions shall be applied in such a manner as to allocate any such amount or proportion among external sources of supply.

Post, p. 3690.

"8. (a) The provisions of this article shall not apply to laws, regulations or requirements governing the procurement by governmental agencies of products purchased for governmental purposes and not with a view to commercial resale or with a view to use in the production of goods for commercial sale.

"(b) The provisions of this article shall not prevent the payment of subsidies exclusively to domestic producers, including payments to domestic producers derived from the proceeds of internal taxes or charges applied consistently with the provisions of this article and subsidies effected through governmental purchases of domestic products.

"9. The contracting parties recognize that internal maximum price control measures, even though conforming to the other provisions of

3682

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

this article, can have effects prejudicial to the interests of contracting parties supplying imported products. Accordingly , contracting parties applying such measures shall take account of the interests of exporting contracting parties with a view to avoiding to the fullest practicable extent such prejudicial effects .
"10. The provisions of this article shall not prevent any contracting party from establishing or maintaining internal quantitative regulations relating to exposed cinematograph films and meeting the require51 Stat., Pt. 5, p. 20. ments of article IV."
B
61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. a23. The text of article VI shall read:

"ARTICLE VI

Post, p. 3690.
Post, p. 3690. Post, p. 3690.

"Anti-dumping and Countervailing Duties
"1. The contracting parties recognize that dumping, by which products of one country are introduced into the commerce of another country at less than the normal value of the products, is to be condemned if it causes or threatens material injury to an established industry in the territory of a contracting party or materially retards the establishment of a domestic industry . For the purposes of this article, a product is to be considered as being introduced into the commerce of an importing country at less than its normal value, if the price of the product exported from one country to another
"(a) Is less than the comparable price, in the ordinary course of trade, for the like product when destined for consumption in the exporting country , or,
"(b) In the absence of such domestic price, is less than either "(i) The highest comparable price for the like product for export to any third country in the ordinary course of trade, or "(ii) The cost of production of the product in the country of origin plus a reasonable addition for selling cost and profit .
"Due allowance shall be made in each case for differences in conditions and terms of sale, for differences in taxation, and for other differences affecting price comparability.
"2. In order to offset or prevent dumping, a contracting party may levy on any dumped product an anti-dumping duty not greater in amount than the margin of dumping in respect of such product. For the purposes of this article, the margin of dumping is the price difference determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 .
"3. No countervailing duty shall be levied on any product of the territory of any contracting party imported into the territory of another contracting party in excess of an amount equal to the estimated bounty or subsidy determined to have been granted , directly or indirectly, on the manufacture , production or export of such product in the country of origin or exportation , including any special subsidy to the transportation of a particular product . The term " counter-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3683

vailing duty" shall be understood to mean a special duty levied for the purpose of offsetting any bounty or subsidy bestowed , directly or indirectly, upon the manufacture, production or export of any merchandise .
"4. No product of the territory of any contracting party imported into the territory of any other contracting party shall be subject to anti-dumping or countervailing duty by reason of the exemption of such product from duties or taxes borne by the like product when destined for consumption in the country of origin or exportation , or by reason of the refund of such duties or taxes.
"5. No product of the territory of any contracting party imported into the territory of any other contracting party shall be subject to both anti-dumping and countervailing duties to compensate for the same situation of dumping or export subsidization .
"6. No contracting party shall levy any anti-dumping or countervailing duty on the importation of any product of the territory of another contracting party unless it determines that the effect of the dumping or subsidization , as the case may be, is such as to cause or threaten material injury to an established domestic industry, or is such as to retard materially the establishment of a domestic industry. The CONTRACTING PARTIES may waive the requirements of this paragraph so as to permit a contracting party to levy an anti-dumping or countervailing duty on the importation of any product for the purpose of offsetting dumping or subsidization which causes or threatens material injury to an industry in the territory of another contracting party exporting the product concerned to the territory of the importing contracting party.
"7. A system for the stabilization of the domestic price or of the return to domestic producers of a primary commodity, independently of the movements of export prices, which results at times in the sale of the commodity for export at a price lower than the comparable price charged for the like commodity to buyers in the domestic market, shall be presumed not to result in material injury within the meaning of paragraph 6 if it is determined by consultation among the contracting parties substantially interested in the commodity concerned that :
"(a) The system has also resulted in the sale of the commodity for export at a price higher than the comparable price charged for the like commodity to buyers in the domestic market , and
" (b) The system is so operated , either because of the effective regulation of production , or otherwise, as not to stimulate exports unduly or otherwise seriously prejudice the interests of other contracting parties." C

The phrase "and to any internal regulation or requirement under paragraphs 3 and 4 of article III " in paragraph 5 of article XIII shall be deleted .
D
The opening clause of paragraph 9 of article XV shall read : "9. Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude:"

61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. 43. 61 Stat. , Pt. 5, p. 51.

3684

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES ( 62 STAT.

61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. 53.

E The text of article XVIII shall read :

"ARTICLE XVIII

"Governmental Assistance to Economic Development and Reconstruction

"1. The contracting parties recognize that special governmental assistance may be required to promote the establishment, development or reconstruction of particular industries or branches of agriculture, and that in appropriate circumstances the grant of such assistance in the form of protective measures is justified . At the same
time they recognize that an unwise use of such measures would impose undue burdens on their own economies and unwarranted restrictions.
on international trade, and might increase unnecessarily the difficulties of adjustment for the economies of other countries.
"2. The CONTRACTING PARTIES and the contracting parties concerned shall preserve the utmost secrecy in respect of matters arising under this article.

"A

Post, p. 3691,

"3. If a contracting party, in the interest of its economic develop-

ment or reconstruction, or for the purpose of increasing a most-

favoured-nation rate of duty in connexion with the establishment of a

new preferential agreement in accordance with the provisions of

61 Stat. , Pt. 5 , p. A13. paragraph 3 of article I , considers it desirable to adopt any nondiscriminatory measure affecting imports which would conflict with

an obligation which the contracting party has assumed under article

61 Stat., Pt. 5, p . A14. II of this Agreement , but which would not conflict with other provisions in this Agreement, such contracting party

61 Stat., Pt . 5, p. 191.

" (a) Shall enter into direct negotiations with all the other contracting parties. The appropriate Schedules to this Agreement shall be amended in accordance with any agreement resulting from such negotiations ; or

" (b) Shall initially or may, in the event of failure to reach agreement under sub-paragraph (a) , apply to the CONTRACTING PARTIES . The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall determine the
contracting party or parties materially affected by the proposed measure and shall sponsor negotiations between such contracting party or parties and the applicant contracting party with a view to obtaining expeditious and substantial agreement. The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall establish and
communicate to the contracting parties concerned a time schedule for such negotiations , following as far as practicable any time schedule which may have been proposed by the applicant contracting party. The contracting parties shall commence and proceed continuously with such negotiations in accordance with the time schedule established by the CONTRACTING PARTIES. At the request of a contracting party, the CONTRACTING PARTIES may, where they concur in princi-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3685

ple with the proposed measure, assist in the negotiations . Upon substantial agreement being reached , the applicant contracting party may be released by the CONTRACTING PARTIES from the obligation referred to in this paragraph, subject to such limitations as may have been agreed upon in the negotiations between the contracting parties concerned.
"4. (a) If as a result of action initiated under paragraph 3 there should be an increase in imports of any product concerned , including products which can be directly substituted therefor, which if continued would be so great as to jeopardize the establishment, development or reconstruction of the industry or branch of agriculture concerned , and if no preventive measures consistent with the provisions of this Agreement can be found which seem likely to prove effective, the applicant contracting party may, after informing, and when practicable consulting with, the CONTRACTING PARTIES , adopt such other measures as the situation may require, provided that such measures do not restrict imports more than necessary to offset the increase in imports referred to in this sub-paragraph ; except in unusual circumstances, such measures shall not reduce imports below the level obtaining in the most recent representative period preceding the date on which the contracting party initiated action under paragraph 3.
" (b) The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall determine, as soon as practicable, whether any such measure should be continued, discontinued or modified . It shall in any case be terminated as soon as the CONTRACTING PARTIES determine that the negotiations are completed or discontinued .
"(c) It is recognized that the relationships between contracting parties under article II of this Agreement involve reciprocal advantages, and therefore any contracting party whose trade is materially affected by the action may suspend the application to the trade of the applicant contracting party of substantially equivalent obligations or concessions under this Agreement provided that the contracting party concerned has consulted the CONTRACTING PARTIES before taking such action and the CONTRACTING PARTIES do not disapprove . "B

61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. A14.

"5. In the case of any non-discriminatory measure affecting imports which would apply to any product in respect of which the contracting party has assumed an obligation under article II of this Agreement and which would conflict with any other provision of this Agreement, the provisions of sub-paragraph (b ) of paragraph 3 shall apply ; provided that before granting a release the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall afford adequate opportunity for all contracting parties which they determine to be materially affected to express their views . The provisions of paragraph 4 shall also be applicable in this case.

3686

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

"C

"6. If a contracting party in the interest of its economic development or reconstruction considers it desirable to adopt any non-discriminatory measure affecting imports which would conflict with the 61 Stat. , Pt . 5, p. A14. provisions of this Agreement other than article II, but which would not apply to any product in respect of which the contracting party has assumed an obligation under article II, such contracting party shall notify the CONTRACTING PARTIES and shall transmit to the CONTRACTING PARTIES & written statement of the considerations in support of the adoption, for a specified period , of the proposed measure.
"7. (a) On application by such contracting party the CONTRACTING PARTIES shall concur in the proposed measure and grant the necessary release for a specified period if, having particular regard to the applicant contracting party's need for economic development or reconstruction, it is established that the measure

"(i) Is designed to protect a particular industry established between 1 January 1939 and 24 March 1948, which was protected during that period of its development by abnormal conditions arising out of the war; or
"(ii) Is designed to promote the establishment or development of a particular industry for the processing of an indigenous primary commodity, when the external sales of such commodity have been materially reduced as a result of new or increased restrictions imposed abroad ; or
"(iii) Is necessary in view of the possibilities and resources * of the applicant contracting party to promote the establishment or development of a particular industry for the processing of an indigenous primary commodity, or for the processing of a by-product of such industry, which would otherwise be wasted, in order to achieve a fuller and more economic use
of the applicant contracting party's natural resources and manpower and, in the long run, to raise the standard of living within the territory of the applicant contracting party, and is unlikely to have a harmful effect, in the long run, on international trade ; or
"(iv) Is unlikely to be more restrictive of international trade than any other practicable and reasonable measure permitted under this Agreement, which could be imposed without undue difficulty, and is the one most suitable for the purpose having regard to the economies of the industry or branch of agriculture concerned and to the applicant contracting party's need for economic development or reconstruction .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3687

"The foregoing provisions of this sub-paragraph are subject to the following conditions :

"(1) Any proposal by the applicant contracting party to apply any such measure, with or without modification, after the end of the initial period , shall not be subject to the provisions of this paragraph ; and
"(2) The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall not concur in any measure under the provisions of (i) , (ii) or (iii) above, which is likely to cause serious prejudice to exports of a primary commodity on which the economy of the territory of another contracting party is largely dependent.
"(b) The applicant contracting party shall apply any measure permitted under sub-paragraph (a) in such a way as to avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial or economic interests of any other contracting party.

"8. If the proposed measure does not fall within the provisions of paragraph 7 , the contracting party
"(a) May enter into direct consultations with the contracting party or parties which, in its judgment , would be materially affected by the measure. At the same time, the contracting party shall inform the CONTRACTING PARTIES of such consultations in order to afford them an opportunity to determine whether all materially affected contracting parties are included within the consultations . Upon complete or substantial agreement being reached , the contracting party interested in taking the measure shall apply to the CONTRACTING PARTIES. The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall promptly examine the application to ascertain whether the interests of all the materially affected contracting parties have been duly taken into account . If the CoNTRACTING PARTIES reach this conclusion, with or without further consultations between the contracting parties concerned, they shall release the applicant contracting party
from its obligations under the relevant provision of this Agreement, subject to such limitations as the CONTRACTING PARTIES may impose, or
"(6) May initially, or in the event of failure to reach complete or substantial agreement under sub-paragraph (a) , apply to the CONTRACTING PARTIES . The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall promptly transmit the statement submitted under paragraph 6 to the contracting party or parties which are determined by the CONTRACTING PARTIES to be materially affected by the proposed measure. Such contracting party or parties shall , within the time limits prescribed by the CONTRACTING PARTIES , inform them whether, in the light of the anticipated effects of the proposed measure on the economy of the territory of such contracting party or parties, there is any objection to the proposed measure. The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall ,

Ante, p. 3686. Ante, p. 3686.

3688

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

" (i) If there is no objection to the proposed measure on the part of the affected contracting party or parties, immediately release the applicant contracting party. from its obligations under the relevant provision of this Agreement ; or

"(ii) If there is objection, promptly examine the proposed measure, having regard to the provisions of this Agreement, to the considerations presented by the applicant contracting party and its need for economic development or reconstruction, to the views of the contracting party or parties determined to be mate-

rially affected , and to the effect which the proposed measure, with or without modification, is likely to have, immediately and in the long run , on international trade, and , in the long run, on the standard of living within the territory of the applicant contracting party. If, as a result of such examination , the CONTRACTING PARTIES concur in the proposed measure, with or without modification , they shall release the applicant contracting party from its obligations under the relevant provision of this Agreement, subject to such limitations as they may impose.

Ante, p. 3686.

"9. If, in anticipation of the concurrence of the CONTRACTING PARTIES in the adoption of a measure referred to in paragraph 6,

there should be an increase or threatened increase in the imports of

any product concerned , including products which can be directly

substituted therefor , so substantial as to jeopardize the establishment,

development or reconstruction of the industry or branch of agricul-

ture concerned, and if no preventive measures consistent with this

Agreement can be found which seem likely to prove effective, the

applicant contracting party may, after informing, and when prac-

ticable consulting with, the CONTRACTING PARTIES, adopt such other

measures as the situation may require, pending a decision by the CONTRACTING PARTIES on the contracting party's application ; pro-

vided that such measures do not reduce imports below the level obtain-

ing in the most recent representative period preceding the date on which notification was given under paragraph 6.
"10. The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall, at the earliest opportunity

Ante, pp. 3686, 3687.

but ordinarily within fifteen days after receipt of an application under the provisions of paragraph 7 or sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of paragraph 8 , advise the applicant contracting party of the date by which it will be notified whether or not it is released from the relevant obligation. This shall be the earliest practicable date and not later than ninety

days after receipt of such application ; provided that , if unforeseen difficulties arise before the date set, the period may be extended after consultation with the applicant contracting party . If the applicant

contracting party is not so notified by the date set , it may, after informing the CONTRACTING PARTIES, institute the proposed measure.
" 11. Any contracting party may maintain any non-discriminatory

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3689

protective measure affecting imports in force on 1 September 1947 which has been imposed for the establishment, development or reconstruction of a particular industry or branch of agriculture and which is not otherwise permitted by this Agreement ; provided that notification has been given to the other contracting parties not later than 10 October 1947 of such measure and of each product on which it is to be maintained and of its nature and purpose.
"12. Any contracting party maintaining any such measure shall within sixty days of becoming a contracting party submit to the CONTRACTING PARTIES a statement of the considerations in support of the maintenance of the measure and the period for which it wishes to maintain it. The CONTRACTING PARTIES shall, as soon as possible, but in any case within twelve months from the date on which such contracting party becomes a contracting party, examine and give a decision concerning the measure as if it had been submitted to the CONTRACTING PARTIES for their concurrence under paragraphs 1 to 10 inclusive of this article.
" 13. The provisions of paragraphs 11 and 12 of this article shall not apply to any measure relating to a product in respect of which the contracting party has assumed an obligation under article II of this Agreement .
"14. In cases where the CONTRACTING PARTIES decide that a measure should be modified or withdrawn by a specified date, they shall have regard to the possible need of a contracting party for a period of time in which to make such modification or withdrawal. "

Ante,' pp. 3684-3688. 61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. A14.

F

Sub-paragraph ( b) and the designation " (a) " in paragraph 5 of

article XXVI shall be deleted .

61 Stat., Pt. 5, p.470.

G

(i) The following shall be inserted in Annex I immediately after

the interpretative notes relating to article II :

61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. 186.

' AD ARTICLE III

"Any internal tax or other internal charge, or any law, regulation or requirement of the kind refered to in paragraph 1 which applies to an imported product and to the like domestic product and is collected or enforced in the case of the imported product at the time or point of importation , is nevertheless to be regarded as an internal tax or other internal charge, or a law, regulation or requirement of the kind referred to in paragraph 1 , and is accordingly subject to the provisions of article III.

Ante, p. 3680.

"Paragraph 1 "The application of paragraph 1 to internal taxes imposed by local
governments and authorities within the territory of a contracting party is subject to the provisions of the final paragraph of article XXIV. The term ' reasonable measures' in the last-mentioned para-

Ante, p. 3680. 61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. 167.

3690

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Ante, p. 3680.

graph would not require, for example, the repeal of existing national legislation authorizing local governments to impose internal taxes which, although technically inconsistent with the letter of article III are not in fact inconsistent with its spirit, if such repeal would result in a serious financial hardship for the local governments or authorities concerned . With regard to taxation by local governments or authorities which is inconsistent with both the letter and spirit of article III, the term ' reasonable measures' would permit a contracting party to eliminate the inconsistent taxation gradually over a transition period , if abrupt action would create serious administrative and financial difficulties .
"Paragraph 2
"A tax conforming to the requirements of the first sentence of paragraph 2 would be considered to be inconsistent with the provisions of the second sentence only in cases where competition was involved between, on the one hand, the taxed product and on the other hand, a directly competitive or substitutable product which was not similarly taxed .

"Paragraph 5

Ante, p. 3681.

"Regulations consistent with the provisions of the first sentence of paragraph 5 shall not be considered to be contrary to the provisions

of the second sentence in any case in which all of the products sub-

ject to the regulations are produced domestically in substantial quan-

tities . A regulation cannot be justified as being consistent with the

provisions of the second sentence on the ground that the proportion

or amount allocated to each of the products which are the subject of

the regulation constitutes an equitable relationship between imported

61 Stat.,Pt. 5, p. A86.

and domestic products." (ii) The texts of the interpretative notes to article VI in Annex I
shall read :

"AD ARTICLE VI

Ante, p. 3682. Ante, p. 3682.

"Paragraph 1 "Hidden dumping by associated houses (that is, the sale by an
importer at a price below that corresponding to the price invoiced by an exporter with whom the importer is associated , and also below the price in the exporting country) constitutes a form of price dumping with respect to which the margin of dumping may be calculated on the basis of the price at which the goods are resold by the importer.
"Paragraphs 2 and 3
"Note 1 "As in many other cases in customs administration , a contracting
party may require reasonable security (bond or cash deposit) for the payment of anti-dumping or countervailing duty pending final determination of the facts in any case of suspected dumping or subsidization. "Note 2
"Multiple currency practices can in certain circumstances constitute a subsidy to exports which may be met by countervailing duties

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3691

under paragraph 3 or can constitute a form of dumping by means of a partial depreciation of a country's currency which may be met by action under paragraph 2. By 'multiple currency practices' is meant practices by Governments or sanctioned by Governments ."

Ante, p. 3682. Ante, p. 3682.

(iii) The following shall be inserted in Annex I immediately after the interpretative notes relating to article XVII:

61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. 189.

"AD ARTICLE XVIII

"Paragraph 3 "The clause referring to the increasing of a most-favoured-nation
rate in connexion with a new preferential agreement will only apply after the insertion in article I of the new paragraph 3 by the entry
into force of the amendment provided for in the Protocol Modifying Part I and article XXIX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, dated 14 September 1948.

"Paragraph 7 (a) (ii) and (iii) "The word ' processing' , as used in these sub-paragraphs, means
the transformation of a primary commodity or of a by-product of

such transformation into semi-finished or finished goods but does not

refer to highly developed industrial processes ."
2. This Protocol shall, following its signature at the close of the second session of the CONTRACTING PARTIES, be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

Deposit.

3. The deposit of this Protocol will, as from the date of deposit , [']

constitute the deposit of the instrument of acceptance of the amendment set out in paragraph 1 of this Protocol by any contracting

Ante, p. 3680.

party the representative of which has signed this Protocol without

any reservation. 4. The instruments of acceptance of those contracting parties which
have not signed this Protocol, or which have signed it with a reserva-

Instruments of acceptance.

tion as to acceptance, will be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

5. The amendment set out in paragraph 1 of this Protocol shall , Ante, p. 3680.

upon the deposit of instruments of acceptance pursuant to paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Protocol by two -thirds of the Governments which are at that time contracting parties, enter into force in accordance with the provisions of article XXX of the Agreement .
6. The Secretary-General of the United Nations will inform all interested Governments of each acceptance of the amendment set out in this Protocol and of the date upon which such amendment enters into force. [2]

61 Stat., Pt. 5, p. A74.

¹ Deposited Sept. 23, 1948. 2 Entered into force Dec. 14, 1948. In a communication of Jan. 14, 1949,
from the Secretary- General of the United Nations to the Secretary of State it was stated that the following signatory countries, which signed the Protocol with reservations as to acceptance, had deposited their instruments of acceptance: Canada, Dec. 1 , 1948 ; Ceylon, Oct. 13, 1948 ; China, Dec. 14, 1948 ; India, Dec. 9, 1948 ; and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , Dec. 13, 1948.

3692

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Post, p. 3705. Authentic texts.

7. The Secretary-General is authorized to effect registration of this Protocol at the appropriate time.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the respective representatives , duly authorized to that effect, have signed the present Protocol.
DONE, at Geneva, in a single copy, in the English and French languages, both texts authentic, this 14th day of September one thousand nine hundred and forty-eight.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

3693

PROTOCOLE PORTANT MODIFICATION DE LA PARTIE II ET DE L'ARTICLE XXVI DE L'ACCORD GENERAL SUR LES TARIFS DOUANIERS ET LE COMMERCE
Les Gouvernements du Commonwealth d'Australie, du Royaume de Belgique, de la Birmanie, des Etats-Unis du Brésil , du Canada , de Ceylan, de la République de Chine, de la République de Cuba, des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de la République française, de l'Inde, du Liban, du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg, du Royaume de Norvège , de la Nouvelle-Zélande , du Pakistan , du Royaume des Pays-Bas , de la Rhodésie du Sud , du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , de la Syrie , de la République tchécoslovaque et de l'Union Sud-Africaine, agissant en qualité de parties contractantes à l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce (désigné ci-après sous le nom d'Accord ) ,
Désireux d'apporter un amendement à l'Accord conformément aux dispositions de l'article XXX dudit Accord ,
Conviennent de ce qui suit:
1. Le texte des articles III, VI , XIII , XV, XVIII et XXVI de l'Accord et de certaines dispositions connexes figurant à l'Annexe I sera modifié comme suit :

Le texte de l'article III sera le suivant :
"ARTICLE III
"Traitement national en matière d'impositions et de réglementation intérieures
"1. Les parties contractantes reconnaissent que les taxes et autres impositions intérieures , ainsi que les lois , règlements et prescriptions affectant la vente, la mise en vente , l'achat , le transport, la distribution ou l'utilisation de produits sur le marché intérieur et les réglementations quantitatives intérieures prescrivant le mélange, la transformation ou l'utilisation en quantités ou en proportions déterminées de certains produits ne devront pas être appliqués aux produits importés ou nationaux de manière à protéger la production nationale .
"2. Les produits du territoire de toute partie contractante importés sur le territoire de toute autre partie contractante ne seront pas frappés , directement ou indirectement, de taxes ou d'autres impositions intérieures, de quelque nature qu'elles soient, supérieures à celles qui frappent, directement ou indirectement, les produits nationaux similaires . En outre, aucune partie contractante n'appliquera d'autre façon de taxes ou d'autres impositions intérieures aux produits importés ou nationaux d'une manière contraire aux principes énoncés au paragraphe premier.

3694

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
"3. En ce qui concerne toute taxe intérieure existante, incompatible avec les dispositions du paragraphe 2 mais expressément autorisée par un accord commercial qui était en vigueur au 10 avril 1947 et qui consolidait le droit d'entrée sur le produit imposé, la partie contractante qui applique la taxe sera libre de différer à l'égard de cette taxe l'application des dispositions du paragraphe 2 jusqu'à ce qu'elle ait pu obtenir d'être dispensée des engagements contractés aux termes de cet accord et recouvrer ainsi la faculté de relever ce droit dans la mesure nécessaire pour compenser la suppression de la protection
assurée par la taxe. "4. Les produits du territoire de toute partie contractante importés
sur le territoire de toute autre partie contractante ne seront pas soumis à un traitement moins favorable que le traitement accordé aux produits similaires d'origine nationale en ce qui concerne toutes lois, tous règlements ou toutes prescriptions affectant la vente , la mise en vente, l'achat, le transport, la distribution et l'utilisation de ces produits sur le marché intérieur. Les dispositions du présent paragraphe n'interdiront pas l'application de tarifs différents pour les transports intérieurs fondés exclusivement sur l'utilisation économique des moyens de transport en non sur l'origine du produit.
"5. Aucune partie contractante n'établira ni ne maintiendra de réglementation quantitative intérieure portant sur le mélange, la transformation ou l'utilisation, en quantités ou en proportions déterminées, de certains produits, qui exigerait, directement ou indirectement, qu'une quantité ou une proportion déterminée d'un produit visé par la réglementation provienne de sources nationales de production. En outre, aucune partie contractante n'appliquera d'autre façon de réglementations quantitatives intérieures d'une manière contraire aux principes énoncés au paragraphe premier.
"6. Les dispositions du paragraphe 5 ne s'appliqueront à aucune réglementation quantitative intérieure en vigueur sur le territoire d'une partie contractante au 1er juillet 1939, au 10 avril 1947 ou au 24 mars 1948 , au choix de la partie contractante, sous réserve qu'il ne soit apporté à aucune réglementation de ce genre qui serait contraire aux dispositions du paragraphe 5 de modification préjudiciable aux importations et que la réglementation en question soit considérée comme un droit de douane aux fins de négociations .
"7. Aucune réglementation quantitative intérieure concernant le mélange, la transformation ou l'utilisation de produits en quantités ou en proportions déterminées ne sera appliquée de façon à répartir ces quantités ou proportions entre les sources extérieures d'approvisionnement.
"8. a) Les dispositions du présent article ne s'appliqueront pas aux lois , règlements et prescriptions régissant l'acquisition, par des organes gouvernementaux, de produits achetés pour les besoins des pouvoirs publics et non pas pour être revendus dans le commerce ou pour servir à la production de marchandises destinées à la vente dans le commerce .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948
"b) Les dispositions du présent article n'interdiront pas l'attribution aux seuls producteurs nationaux de subventions, y compris les subventions provenant du produit des taxes ou impositions intérieures qui sont appliquées conformément aux dispositions du présent article et les subventions sous la forme d'achat de produits nationaux par les pouvoirs publics ou pour leur compte.
"9. Les parties contractantes reconnaissent que le contrôle des prix intérieurs par fixation de maxima , même s'ils se conforment aux autres dispositions du présent article, peut avoir des effets préjudiciables pour les intérêts des parties contractantes qui fournissent des produits importés . En conséquence, les parties contractantes qui appliquent de telles mesures prendront en considération les intérêts des parties contractantes exportatrices en vue d'éviter ces effets préjudiciables , dans toute la mesure où il sera possible de le faire.
"10. Les dispositions du présent article n'empêcheront pas une partie contractante d'établir ou de maintenir une réglementation quantitative intérieure sur les films cinématographiques impressionnés conforme aux prescriptions de l'article IV."
B
Le texte de l'article VI sera le suivant :
"ARTICLE VI
"Droits anti-dumping et compensateurs
"1. Les parties contractantes reconnaissent que le dumping, qui permet l'introduction des produits d'un pays sur le marché d'un autre pays à un prix inférieur à leur valeur normale, est condamnable s'il cause ou menace de causer un préjudice important à une production établie d'une partie contractante ou s'il retarde sensiblement la création d'une production nationale. Aux fins d'application du présent article, un produit exporté d'un pays vers un autre doit être considéré comme étant introduit sur le marché d'un pays importateur à un prix inférieur à sa valeur normale, si le prix de ce produit est:
"a) Inférieur au prix comparable pratiqué au cours d'opérations commerciales normales pour un produit similaire, destiné à la consommation dans le pays exportateur,
"b) Ou, en l'absence d'un tel prix sur le marché extérieur de ce dernier pays, si le prix du produit exporté est : "i) Inférieur au prix comparable le plus élevé pour l'exportation d'un produit similaire vers un pays tiers au cours d'opérations commerciales normales, "ii) Ou inférieur au coût de production de ce produit dans le pays d'origine, plus un supplément raisonnable pour les frais de vente et le bénéfice .

3695

3696

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
"Il sera dûment tenu compte , dans chaque cas , des différences dans les conditions de vente , des différences de taxation et des autres différences affectant la comparabilité des prix.
"2. En vue de neutraliser ou d'empêcher le dumping , toute partie contractante pourra percevoir sur tout produit faisant l'objet d'un dumping un droit anti-dumping dont le montant ne sera pas supérieur à la marge de dumping afférente à ce produit. Aux fins d'application du présent article , il faut entendre par marge de dumping la différence de prix déterminée conformément aux dispositions du paragraphe premier.
"3. Il ne sera perçu sur un produit du territoire d'une partie contractante, importé dans le territoire d'une autre partie contractante, aucun droit compensateur dépassant le montant estimé de la prime ou de la subvention que l'on avoir été accordée, directement ou indirectement, à la fabrication, à la production ou à l'exportation dudit produit dans le pays d'origine ou d'exportation , y compris toute subvention spéciale accordée pour le transport d'un produit déterminé. Il faut entendre par le terme "droit compensateur" un droit spécial perçu en vue de neutraliser toute prime ou subvention accordée, directement ou indirectement, à la fabrication , à la production ou à l'exportation d'un produit.
"4. Aucun produit du territoire d'une partie contractante, importé dans le territoire d'une autre partie contractante, ne sera soumis à des droits anti-dumping ou compensateurs du fait qu'il est exonéré des droits ou taxes qui frappent le produit similaire lorsqu'il est destiné à être consommé dans le pays d'origine ou le pays d'exportation , ou du fait que ces droits ou taxes sont remboursés .
"5. Aucun produit du territoire d'une partie contractante, importé dans le territoire d'une autre partie contractante, ne sera soumis à la fois à des droits anti-dumping et à des droits compensateurs en vue de remédier à une même situation résultant du dumping ou de subventions à l'exportation .
"6. Aucune partie contractante ne percevra de droits anti-dumping ou compensateurs à l'importation d'un produit du territoire d'une autre partie contractante, à moins qu'elle ne constate que l'effet du dumping ou de la subvention, selon le cas , est tel qu'il cause ou menace de causer un préjudice important à une production nationale établie ou qu'il retarde sensiblement la création d'une production nationale. Les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES pourront, par dérogation aux prescriptions du présent paragraphe, permettre à une partie contractante de percevoir un droit anti-dumping ou compensateur à l'importation d'un produit quelconque en vue de compenser un dumping ou une subvention qui cause ou menace de causer un préjudice important à une production d'une autre partie contractante exportant le produit en question dans le territoire de la partie contractante
importatrice. "7. Il sera présumé qu'un système destiné à stabiliser soit le prix
intérieur d'un produit de base, soit la recette brute des producteurs nationaux d'un produit de ce genre , indépendamment des mouve-

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948
ments des prix à l'exportation , et qui a parfois pour résultat la vente de ce produit pour l'exportation à un prix inférieur au prix comparable demandé pour un produit similaire aux acheteurs du marché intérieur, n'entraîne pas un préjudice important au sens du paragraphe 6 , s'il est établi après consultation entre les parties contractantes intéressées de façon substantielle au produit en question:
"a) Que ce système a eu également pour résultat la vente à l'exportation de ce produit à un supérieur au prix comparable demandé pour le produit similaire aux acheteurs du marché intérieur,
"b) Et que ce système, par suite de la réglementation effective de la production, ou pour toute autre raison, est appliqué de telle façon qu'il ne stimule pas indûment les exportations ou ne cause aucun autre préjudice sérieux aux intérêts d'autres parties contractantes ." C
Au paragraphe 5 de l'article XIII , les mots suivants seront supprimés: "et aux réglementations et prescriptions d'ordre intérieur visées aux paragraphes 3 et 4 de l'article III".
D
Le préambule du paragraphe 9 de l'article XV sera le suivant: "9. Aucune des dispositions du présent Accord n'aura pour effet d'interdire:".
E
Le texte de l'article XVIII sera le suivant:
"ARTICLE XVIII
"Aide de l'Etat en faveur du développement économique et de la reconstruction
"1. Les parties contractantes reconnaissent que, pour faciliter l'établissement, le développement ou la reconstruction de certaines branches d'activité industrielle ou agricole, il peut être nécessaire de faire appel à une aide spéciale de l'Etat et que, dans certaines circonstances , l'octroi de cette aide sous la forme de mesures de protection est justifié. Elles reconnaissent aussi qu'un recours déraisonnable à ces mesures grèverait indûment leur propre économie, imposerait au commerce international des restrictions injustifiées et pourrait accroître sans nécessité les difficultés d'adaptation de l'économie d'autres pays .
"2. Les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES et les parties contractantes intéressées observeront le secret le plus absolu sur les questions relevant du présent article .
"A
"3. Si une partie contractante, dans l'intérêt de son développement économique ou de sa reconstruction ou afin d'augmenter un droit applicable à la nation la plus favorisée , à l'occasion de la conclusion

3697

3698

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
d'un nouvel accord préférentiel, conformément aux dispositions du paragraphe 3 de l'article premier, se propose de prendre une mesure non discriminatoire affectant les importations ou qui serait contraire à une obligation qu'elle a contractée aux termes de l'article II du présent Accord , mais qui ne contrevient pas aux autres dispositions de cet Accord, cette partie contractante devra:
"a) Soit entrer directement en négociation avec toutes les autres parties contractantes . Les listes correspondantes jointes au présent Accord seront modifiées conformément aux termes de l'accord qui interviendrait à la suite de ces négociations ;
"b) Soit s'adresser directement aux PARTIES CONTRACTANTES . Elle pourra également s'adresser à celles-ci , au cas où l'accord visé à l'alinéa a) ne pourrait être obtenu. Les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES détermineront la ou les parties contractantes que la
mesure projetée affecterait de façon appréciable et provoqueront entre la partie contractante requérante et la ou les parties contractantes en cause des négociations en vue d'aboutir rapidement à un accord suffisamment général. Les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES fixeront des délais pour ces négociations en se conformant dans toute la mesure du possible aux propositions que la partie contractante requérante aura pu faire et elles notifieront ces délais aux parties contractantes intéressées. Les parties contractantes entameront et poursuivront sans interruption ces négociations dans les délais fixés par les PARTIES
CONTRACTANTES . A la demande d'une partie contractante, les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES pourront, si elles approuvent en principe la mesure projetée , prêter leur concours pour faciliter les négociations. Lorsqu'un accord suffisamment général aura été réalisé, les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES pourront relever la partie contractante requérante de l'engagement visé au présent paragraphe, sous réserve des limitations qui auront pu être admises d'un commun accord par les parties contractantes intéressées au cours des négociations .
"4. a) Si, à la suite des mesures prises en vertu du paragraphe 2, les importations de tout produit en cause, ou de produits qui peuvent lui être directement substitués, subissent un accroissement qui , s'il se prolongeait, compromettrait sérieusement la création, le développement ou la reconstruction de telle ou telle branche d'activité industrielle ou agricole, et si aucune mesure préventive compatible avec les dispositions du présent accord ne semble devoir donner les résultats cherchés, la partie contractante requérante pourra, après en avoir informé les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES et, si possible, après les avoir consultées, adopter telles autres mesures que pourra comporter la situation . Toutefois, ces mesures ne devront pas limiter les importations plus qu'il ne sera nécessaire pour annuler les effets de l'accroissement des importations mentionné dans le présent alinéa . Sauf dans des circonstances exceptionnelles , ces mesures ne devront pas

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE-SEPT. 14, 1948
avoir pour effet de ramener les importations au-dessous du niveau atteint par celles-ci au cours de la période représentative la plus récente précédant la date à laquelle la partie contractante aura entamé la procédure visée au paragraphe 3 . "b) Les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES détermineront dès que possible s'il y a lieu de maintenir en vigueur, de suspendre ou de modifier ces mesures . Celles-ci cesseront en tout cas d'être appliquées dès que les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES auront constaté que les négociations ont abouti ou sont abandonnées . "c) Les relations entre les parties contractantes, aux termes de l'article II du présent Accord , devant comporter des avantages réciproques, toute partie contractante dont le commerce est affecté de façon appréciable par les mesures prises pourra suspendre, à l'égard de la partie contractante requérante, des obligations ou des concessions sensiblement équivalentes qui résulteront du présent Accord , sous réserve que les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES aient été consultées par la partie contractante et qu'elles n'aient pas fait d'objection .
"B
"5. Au cas où une mesure non discriminatoire affectant les importations porterait sur un produit au sujet duquel la partie contractante a contracté une obligation aux termes de l'article II du présent Accord et serait contraire à l'une des autres dispositions du présent Accord , les dispositions de l'alinéa b) du paragraphe 3 seront appliquées . Toutefois, avant d'accorder la dispense , les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES donneront à toutes les parties contractantes qu'elles considéreront comme affectées de façon appréciable l'occasion d'exposer leurs vues. Les dispositions du paragraphe 4 seront également applicables dans ce cas.
"C
"6. Si une partie contractante, en considération de son développement économique ou de sa reconstruction , se propose de prendre une mesure non discriminatoire affectant les importations , qui est contraire aux dispositions du présent Accord autres que celles de l'article II , mais qui ne porte pas sur un produit au sujet duquel cette partie contractante a contracté une obligation aux termes de l'article II , cette partie contractante en informera les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES , et leur communiquera par écrit les raisons qu'elle invoque en faveur de la mesure qu'elle projette de prendre pendant une période déterminée.
"7. a) A la suite de la requête présentée par cette partie contractante, les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES autoriseront la mesure projetée et accorderont pour une période déterminée la dispense nécessaire si, compte tenu des besoins de la partie contractante requérante en matière de développement économique ou de reconstruction, il est établi que la mesure
"i) Est destinée à protéger une industrie déterminée créée entre le 1er janvier 1939 et le 24 mars 1948 et
68706-52--PT. III- -69

3699

3700

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
que des conditions anormales résultant de la guerre protégeaient pendant cette période de son développement ;
"ii) Ou est destinée à favoriser la création ou le développement d'une industrie déterminée dont l'objet est la transformation d'un produit de base national, lorsque les ventes à l'étranger de ce produit ont été sensiblement réduites par suite de restrictions nouvelles ou accrues imposées à l'étranger ;
"iii) Ou est nécessaire , compte tenu des possibilités et des ressources dont dispose la partie contractante requérante , pour la création ou le développement d'une industrie déterminée dont l'objet est la transformation d'un produit de base national ou d'un sousproduit de cette industrie qui sans cela serait perdu pour réaliser une utilisation plus complète et plus rationnelle des ressources naturelles et de la maind'oeuvre de la partie contractante requérante et pour élever dans l'avenir le niveau de vie dans le territoire de la partie contractante requérante, si cette mesure ne risque pas d'avoir , à la longue, un effet préjudiciable sur le commerce international;
"iv) Ou ne semble pas devoir restreindre le commerce international plus que toute autre mesure raisonnable autorisée par le présent Accord qui pourrait être appliquée sans difficultés excessives, et s'il est établi que cette mesure est la plus propre à donner les résultats cherchés, eu égard aux conditions économiques de la branche d'activité industrielle ou agricole en question et aux besoins de la partie contractante requérante en matière de développement économique ou de reconstruction .
"Pour l'application des dispositions du présent alinéa, il est entendu:
"1) Qu'aucune demande de la partie contractante requérante tendant à appliquer une telle mesure , avec ou sans modification, au delà de la période déterminée initialement par les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES ne sera soumise aux dispositions du présent paragraphe ,
"2) Et que les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES n'autoriseront aucune mesure aux termes des dispositions des alinéas i) , ii) ou iii) ci-dessus qui soit de nature à affecter gravement les exportations d'un produit de base dont l'économie d'une autre partie contractante dépend pour une grande part.
"b) La partie contractante requérante appliquera toute mesure autorisée aux termes de l'alinéa a) de façon à éviter de léser sans nécessité les intérêts commerciaux ou économiques d'une autre partie contractante.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948
"8. Si la mesure projetée ne rentre pas dans le cadre des dispositions du paragraphe 7 , la partie contractante pourra :
"a) Soit entrer directement en consultation avec la ou les parties contractantes qu'à son avis cette mesure affecterait de façon appreciable. En même temps, la partie contractante informera les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES de ses consultations afin de leur permettre de s'assurer si toutes les parties contractantes que cette mesure affecterait de façon appréciable sont invitées à participer à ces consultations. Dès qu'un accord complet ou suffisamment général aura été réalisé, la partie contractante qui envisage de prendre la mesure en question adressera une requête aux PARTIES CONTRACTANTES . Celles-ci examineront cette requête sans retard pour s'assurer qu'il a été dûment tenu compte des intérêts de toutes les parties contractantes que cette mesure affecterait de façon appréciable. Si les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES constatent qu'il en est ainsi que de nouvelles consultations entre les parties contractantes intéressées aient lieu ou non-elles relèveront la partie contractante requérante des obligations qui lui incombent aux termes de la disposition du présent Accord applicable en l'espèce , sous réserve des limitations qu'elles pourront imposer ;
"b) Soit s'adresser directement aux PARTIES CONTRACTANTES . Elle pourra également s'adresser à celles-ci au cas où l'accord complet ou suffisamment général visé à l'alinéa a ) ci -dessus ne pourrait être réalisé. Les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES transmettront sans retard la communication qui leur aura été adressée aux termes du paragraphe 6 à la partie contractante ou aux parties contractantes qu'elles considéreront comme affectées de façon appréciable par la mesure projetée . Cette partie contractante ou ces parties contractantes feront connaître aux PARTIES CONTRACTANTES , dans les délais fixés par ces dernières et après avoir étudié les effets probables qu'aurait la mesure projetée sur leur économie , si elles élèvent des objections contre cette mesure .
"i) Si la ou les parties contractantes intéressées n'élèvent pas d'objection contre la mesure projetée, les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES relèveront immédiatement la partie contractante requérante des obligations qui lui incombent aux termes de la disposition du présent Accord applicable en l'espèce .
"ii) Si des objections sont élevées , les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES examineront sans retard la mesure projetée , en tenant compte des dispositions du présent Accord , des raisons invoquées par la partie contractante requérante , des besoins du développement économique ou de la reconstruction de cette partie contractante, des vues exposées par la ou les parties contractantes considérées comme devant être affectées de façon appréciable, des répercussions immédiates ou à long terme. que la mesure projetée , avec ou sans modification , aura probablement sur le commerce international, ainsi que des réper-

3701

3702

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
cussions à long terme qu'elle aura probablement sur le niveau de vie dans le territoire de la partie contractante requérante. Si, à la suite de cet examen , les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES autorisent, avec ou sans modification, la mesure projetée, elles relèveront la partie contractante requérante des obligations qui lui incombent aux termes de la disposition du présent Accord applicable en l'espèce, sous réserve des limitations qu'elles pourront imposer.
"9. Si, du fait que les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES envisagent d'autoriser une mesure mentionnée au paragraphe 6 , les importations de tout produit en cause, ou de produits qui peuvent lui être directement substitués , subissent ou menacent de subir un accroissement assez considérable pour compromettre la création,le développement ou la reconstruction de telle ou telle branche d'activité industrielle ou agricole, et si aucune mesure préventive compatible avec les dispositions du présent Accord ne semble devoir donner les résultats cherchés, la partie con-
tractante requérante pourra , après en avoir informé les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES et , si possible, après les avoir consultées, adopter telles autres mesures que pourra comporter la situation en attendant que les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES aient statué sur sa demande. Toutefois, ces mesures ne devront pas avoir pour effet de ramener les importations au-dessous du niveau atteint par celles-ci au cours de la période représentative la plus récente précédant la date à laquelle la notification aura été adressée aux termes du paragraphe 6 .
"10. Les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES devront, aussitôt que possible, mais en principe dans les quinze jours qui suivront la réception de la requête présentée conformément aux dispositions du paragraphe 7 ou des alinéas a) ou b ) du paragraphe 8 , aviser la partie contractante requérante de la date à laquelles elles lui feront connaître si elles la relèvent ou non de l'obligation dont il s'agit. Le délai séparant cette date du jour de la réception de la requête sera aussi court que possible
et ne dépassera pas quatre-vingt-dix jours ; toutefois, si des difficultés imprévues surgissent avant la date fixée , le délai pourra être prolongé après consultation avec la partie contractante requérante. Si la partie contractante requérante n'a reçu aucune notification à la date fixée, elle pourra, après en avoir informé les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES, prendre la mesure projetée.
"11. Toute partie contractante pourra maintenir une mesure non discriminatoire de protection affectant les importations qui était en vigueur le 1er septembre 1947 et qui avait été prise en vue de la création, du développement ou de la reconstruction de telle ou telle branche particulière de l'industrie ou de l'agriculture , même si cette mesure n'est pas autorisée par d'autres dispositions du présent Accord, à condition que cette mesure, chacun des produits qu'elle vise,
ainsi que la nature et le but de cette mesure , aient été notifiés aux autres parties contractantes le 10 octobre 1947 au plus tard.
"12. Toute partie contractante qui maintiendra une mesure de ce genre fera connaître aux PARTIES CONTRACTANTES, dans les soixante jours après être devenue partie contractante, les raisons qu'elle invoque en faveur du maintien de cette mesure, et le délai pendant lequel

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948
elle désire la maintenir en vigueur. Les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES examineront dès que possible , et , en tout cas, douze mois après la date à laquelle cette partie contractante sera devenue partie contractante, comme si la mesure avait fait l'objet d'une demande d'autorisation soumise aux PARTIES CONTRACTANTES aux termes des paragraphes 1 à 10 inclusivement du présent article .
"13. Les dispositions des paragraphes 11 et 12 du présent article ne s'appliqueront pas aux mesures concernant un produit au sujet duquel la partie contractante a assumé des obligations aux termes de l'article II du présent Accord .
"14. Lorsque les PARTIES CONTRACTANTES prescriront de modifier ou de supprimer une mesure dans un délai déterminé, elles tiendront compte de la nécessité où pourra se trouver la partie contractante de disposer d'un certain temps pour procéder à cette modification ou à cette suppression . "
F
L'alinéa b) et la lettre "a) " du paragraphe 5 de l'article XXVI seront supprimés.
G
i) Le texte ci-après sera inséré à l'Annexe I à la suite des notes interprétatives relatives à l'article II:
"AD ARTICLE III
"Toute taxe intérieure ou autre imposition intérieure ou toute loi, réglementation ou prescription visée au paragraphe premier qui s'applique au produit importé comme au produit national similaire et qui est perçue ou imposée, dans le cas du produit importé, au moment ou au lieu de l'importation, n'en sera pas moins considérée comme une taxe intérieure ou une autre imposition intérieure ou comme une loi , une réglementation ou une prescription visée au paragraphe premier et sera en conséquence soumise aux dispositions de l'article III.
"Paragraphe premier "L'application du paragraphe premier aux taxes intérieures imposées
par les autorités gouvernementales ou administratives locales du territoire d'une partie contractante est régie par les dispositions du dernier paragraphe de l'article XXIV. L'expression "mesures raisonnables en son pouvoir" qui figure dans ce paragraphe ne doit pas être interprétée comme obligeant , par exemple, une partie contractante à abroger une législation nationale donnant aux autorités visées ci-dessus le pouvoir d'imposer des taxes intérieures qui sont contraires , dans la forme, à la lettre de l'article III , sans être contraires , en fait , à l'esprit de cet article, si cette abrogation devait entraîner de graves difficultés financières pour les autorités locales intéressées . En ce qui concerne les taxes perçues par ces autorités locales et qui seraient contraires tant à la lettre qu'à l'esprit de l'article III , l'expression "mesures raisonnables en son pouvoir" permet à une partie contractante d'éliminer progressivement ces taxes au cours d'une période de transition , si leur suppression immédiate risque de provoquer de graves difficultés administratives et financières .

3703

3704

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
"Paragraphe 2 "Une taxe satisfaisant aux prescriptions de la première phrase du
paragraphe 2 ne doit être considérée comme incompatible avec les dispositions de la deuxième phrase que dans le cas où il y a concurrence entre, d'une part, le produit imposé et, d'autre part, un produit directement concurrent ou un produit qui peut lui être directement substitué et qui n'est pas frappé d'une taxe semblable.
"Paragraphe 5 "Les mesures de réglementation compatibles avec les dispositions
de la première phrase du paragraphe 5 ne seront pas considérées comme contrevenant aux dispositions de la deuxième phrase si le pays qui applique la réglementation produit en quantités substantielles tous les produits soumis à cette réglementation . On ne pourra invoquer le fait qu'en attribuant une proportion ou une quantité déterminée à chacun des produits soumis à la réglementation on a maintenu un rapport équitable entre les produits importés et les produits nationaux pour soutenir qu'une réglementation est conforme aux dispositions de la deuxième phrase."
ii) Le texte des notes interprétatives relatives à l'article VI figurant à l'Annexe I sera le suivant:
"AD ARTICLE VI "Paragraphe premier
"Le dumping occulte pratiqué par des maisons associées (c'est-à-dire la vente par un importateur à un prix inférieur à celui qui correspond au prix facturé par un exportateur avec lequel l'importateur est associé, et inférieur également au prix pratiqué dans le pays exportateur) constitue une forme de dumping de prix pour laquelle la marge de dumping peut être calculée en partant du prix auquel les marchandises sont revendues par l'importateur.
"Paragraphes 2 et 3
"Note 1 "Comme il arrive souvent dans la pratique douanière, une partie
contractante pourra exiger une garantie raisonnable (caution ou dépôt d'espèces) pour le paiement de droits anti-dumping ou compensateurs en attendant la constatation définitive des faits dans tous les cas où l'on soupçonnera qu'il y a dumping ou subvention.
"Note 2 "Le recours à des changes multiples peut, dans certains cas, con-
stituer une subvention à l'exportation à laquelle peuvent être opposés les droits compensateurs aux termes du paragraphe 3 , ou une forme de dumping obtenue par le moyen d'une dévaluation partielle de la monnaie, à laquelle peuvent être opposées les mesures prévues au paragraphe 2. L'expression " recours à des changes multiples" vise les pratiques qui sont le fait des Gouvernements ou qui sont approuvées par eux ."
iii) Le texte ci-après sera inséré à l'Annexe I à la suite des notes interprétatives relatives à l'article XVII :

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- TARIFFS AND TRADE- SEPT. 14, 1948

"AD ARTICLE XVIII "Paragraphe 3
"La clause relative au relèvement d'un droit applicable à la nation la plus favorisée à l'occasion de la conclusion d'un nouvel accord préférentiel ne sera appliquée qu'après l'insertion à l'article premier du nouveau paragraphe 3 lors de l'entrée en vigueur de l'amendement prévu dans le Protocole portant modification de la Partie I et de l'article XXIX de l'Accord général sur les tarifs douaniers et le commerce, en date du 14 septembre 1948 .

"Paragraphe 7 a) , alinéas ii ) et iii) "Dans ces deux alinéas , le mot "transformation" vise le traitement
que comporte la fabrication de produits semi-finis ou de produits finis, en partant d'un produit de base ou d'un sous-produit obtenu au cours de ce traitement ; il ne s'applique pas aux opérations de haute technique industrielle . "

2. Le présent Protocole sera déposé auprès du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies dès sa signature à la conclusion de la deuxième session des PARTIES CONTRACTANTES .
3. Le dépôt du présent Protocole constituera à la date à laquelle il sera effectué le dépôt de l'instrument d'acceptation de l'amendement figurant au paragraphe premier du présent Protocole par toute partie contractante dont le représentant aura signé le Protocole sans réserve .
4. Les instruments d'acceptation des parties contractantes qui n'auront pas signé le présent Protocole, ou qui l'auront signé en réservant leur acceptation , seront déposés suprès du Secrétaire général des Nations Unies .
5. Dès le dépôt des instruments d'acceptation, conformément aux paragraphes 3 et 4 du présent Protocole, par les deux tiers des Gouvernements qui seront à cette date parties contractantes, l'amendement figurant au paragraphe premier du présent Protocole entrera en vigueur conformémnt aux dispositions de l'article XXX de l'Accord.
6. Le Secrétaire général des Nations Unies avisera tous les Gouvernements intéressés de chaque acceptation de l'amendement figurant au présent Protocole et de la date à laquelle ledit amendement sera entré en vigueur.
7. Le Secrétaire général est autorisé à effectuer l'enregistrement du présent Protocole au moment voulu.
EN FOI DE QUO1 les représentants des Gouvernements susmentionnés, dûment autorisés à cet effet, ont signé le présent Protocole .
FAIT à Genève , en un seul exemplaire rédigé dans les langues française et anglaise , les deux textes faisant également foi , le 14 septembre mil neuf cent quarante-huit .

For the Commonwealth of Australia :

Pour le Commonwealth d'Australie:

JOHN A. 

Ad referendum

For the Kingdom of Belgium:

M. SUETENS

Pour le Royaume de Belgique:

3705

3706

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

For the United States of Brazil:

Pour les Etats- Unis du Brésil:

JOÃO CARLOS MUNIZ

For Burma:

Ad referendum

Pour la Birmanie:

For Canada:

L. D. WILGRESS Ad referendum

Pour le Canada:

For Ceylon:

O. E. GOONETILLEKE Ad referendum

Pour Ceylan:

For the Republic of China:

WUNSZ KING Ad referendum

Pour la République de Chine:

For the Republic of Cuba:

S. CLARK

Pour la République de Cuba:

For the Czechoslovak Republic:

Pour la République tchécoslovaque: Z. AUGENTHALER
Ad referendum

For the French Republic:

ANDRÉ PHILIP Pour la République française:

For India: For Lebanon:

C. DESAI Ad referendum
M. MOBARAK

Pour l'Inde: Pour le Liban:

For the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:

Pour le Grand- Duché de Luxembourg:

J. WOULBROUN

For the Kingdom of the Netherlands:

Pour le Royaume des Pays-Bas:

E. DE VRIES

For New Zealand:

L. S. NICOL Ad referendum

Pour la Nouvelle-Zélande:

For the Kingdom of Norway: For Pakistan: For Southern Rhodesia:

TORFINN OFTEDAL S. A. HASNIE

Pour le Royaume de Norvège: Pour le Pakistan:
Pour la Rhodésie du Sud:

For Syria:

H. DJEBBARA

Pour la Syrie:

For the Union of South Africa:

A. J. NORVAL Ad referendum

Pour l'Union Sud-Africaine:

For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:

Pour le Royaume- Uni de GrandeBretagne et d'Irlande du Nord:

R. SHACKLE

Ad referendum

For the United States of America:

Pour les Etats- Unis d'Amérique:

LEROY D. STINEBOWER

62 STAT. ] BELGIUM- PASSPORT VISAS -OCT. 12, 26, 1948

3707

Agreement between the United States of America and Belgium respecting waiver of passport visas for American citizens and extension of period of validity for Belgian citizens . Effected by exchange of notes dated at Washington October 12 and 26, 1948; entered into force October 26, 1948 .

Oc[Tt.obIe.rA1.2,S.261,8911948

The Belgian Embassy to the Department of State
AMBASSADE DE BELGIQUE No. 4723

The Belgian Embassy presents its compliments to the Department of State and has the honor to inform the Department that the Belgian Government has decided to waive from the 15th of October 1948 all visa requirements for American citizens rightfully bearing valid American passports who wish to proceed to Belgium either for transit or for a stay not exceeding two months.
It should be understood that this measure does not alter otherwise
the present Belgian regulations governing the sojourn, the establishment or employment of foreigners which remain applicable to American citizens as before.
The Belgian Government has further decided that American military personnel belonging to the American Forces of occupation in Germany on detached service or on leave, will be authorized to proceed to Belgium on presentation of a military certificate of identity, bearing a photograph of the holder, together with either an order of mission or a leave furlough. The previous visa requirements on the latter document will be waived from the 15th of October 1948.
A valid american passport will still be required from American military personnel travelling in civilian clothes proceeding to Belgium either on duty or on leave.
The civilian personnel of American nationality employed by agencies of the American Government or of the American Army similar to the "Army Exchange Service" ( with the exception of the technical counsellors representing commercial interests ) and the American personnel of the Red Cross are submitted to the same regulations as the military personnel as far as they travel in uniform. In their case a "letter of authority to visit a foreign country" by which the United States Army takes full responsability for the journey takes the place of the order of mission or passport.
An American passport is needed for journeys performed by the above mentioned categories of personnel when they travel in civilian clothes .
The Belgian Embassy understands that the Government of the United States of America contemplates granting to Belgian subjects who intend to proceed to the United States for a temporary
68706-52-PT. III- 70

3708

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STA1.

visit non-immigrant visas which would be valid for presentation at a port of entry at any time or any numbers of times during a period of twenty-four months instead of the present twelve months. The waiving of passport fees for non-immigrant temporary visitors would be continued.

Having decided to waive altogether visa requirements for American citizens proceeding for short stays in Belgium, the Belgian Government would appreciate it if the Government of the United States could instruct the American consular and immigration authorities to reduce to the minimum the formalities accompanying the issuance of non-immigrant visas to Belgian nationals and to facilitate to the utmost the entry in the United States of the rightful bearers of such visas.

The Belgian Embassy would be very grateful if the Department

of State would be good enough to inform the Embassy whether these

proposals are agreeable to the Government of the United States.

BELGIQUE

WASHINGTON, October 12, 1948 THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

E D DE
A
S

Washington, D.C.

AMBA

WASHINGTO

The Acting Secretary of State to the Belgian Ambassador

The Acting Secretary of State presents his compliments to His Excellency the Belgian Ambassador and has the honor to refer to the

Embassy's note number 4723 of October 12 , 1948 , concerning the visa

Waiver by Belgium of passport visa re-
quirements for American citizens.

requirements for American citizens who wish to proceed to Belgium and to remain therein for a temporary period of time.
It is understood that beginning October 15, 1948 , American citizens, in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States, proceeding to continental Belgium for transit or for

a stay of not exceeding two months, are not required to be in possession of valid visas ; and that such American citizens are subject to the present Belgian regulations governing the sojourn, establishment

or employment in Belgium of persons of other than Belgian nationality.
It is also understood that beginning October 15, 1948, military per-

sonnel of the American Occupation Forces in Germany who are American citizens, who are on detached service or on furlough, and who are in possession of a military certificate of identity bearing a photograph of the holder, together with travel orders or evidence of authorized military furlough, may proceed to continental Belgium for transit or for a stay of not exceeding two months without the necessity of obtaining a valid Belgian visa. Such personnel traveling to continental Belgium and who are in civilian clothes, however, are

62 STAT. ] BELGIUM- PASSPORT VISAS-OCT. 12, 26, 1948

3709

required to be in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States.

It is further understood that beginning October 15 , 1948 , civilian personnel employed by agencies of the Government of the United

States or by the American Army, who are American citizens (with the exception of technical counsellors representing commercial interests) , and personnel of the Red Cross who are American citizens, may proceed to continental Belgium in the same manner as the mili-

tary personnel mentioned in the preceding paragraph, provided they are in possession of letters of authority to visit a foreign country issued by the appropriate American Army authorities. Such personnel traveling to continental Belgium and who are in civilian clothes,

however, are required to be in possession of valid passports issued by the Government of the United States.

The Government of the United States is appreciative of these concessions upon the part of the Government of Belgium and desires to grant as nearly as possible similar concessions to Belgian nationals who apply for visas with which to proceed to the United States as nonimmigrants.

Under the provisions of Section 30, Alien Registration Act of 1940, approved June 28, 1940, any alien seeking to enter the United
States who does not present a valid visa or other permit to enter, except in emergency cases , shall be excluded from admission . In view

54 Stat. 673. 8 U.S.C. § 451.

of this provision of law, the Government of the United States cannot reciprocate in identical terms. However, the Government of the United States will grant passport visas without fees and valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States

Extension of period of validity for Belgian
tnoattihoenaUl.s S.proceeding

within a period of twenty-four months from date of issuance, instead of the present twelve months ' period of validity of such visas, to Belgian nationals who are proceeding to the United States and its

possessions for business or pleasure purposes and who are bona fide nonimmigrants within the meaning of the immigration laws of the United States, provided the Belgian passport of each bearer remains valid during the period of the validity of the visa . All other classes of nonimmigrant passport visas granted Belgian nationals will continue to be valid , as at present, for a period of twelve months , pro-

vided the Belgian passport of each bearer remains valid for that period of time.

This arrangement will not disturb the reciprocal nonimmigrant passport visa fee arrangement concluded between the Governments

of the United States and Belgium and which became effective February 17, 1947, whereby each Government agreed to waive nonimmigrant passport visa fees for nationals of the other country.
The period of validity of a visa relates only to the period within

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 4117.
Period of validity.

which it may be used in connection with an application for admission

at a port of entry into the United States and its possessions, and not

to the length of stay in the United States which may be permitted the bearer after he is admitted. The period of each stay will, as at

present, continue to be determined by the immigration authorities .

3710

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Fee for immigration

visa.

The fee for an immigration visa and application therefor to per-

mit an alien to apply for admission into the United States with the

43 Stat. 153. 8 U.S. C. 201 note.
24162, 3S3t5a.t. , Pt. 1 , pp. 7,

privilege of residing permanently in this country is $10.00. The amount of this fee is prescribed by the Immigration Act of 1924, and it may not be changed on the basis of a reciprocal arrangement.

The Government of Belgium may be assured that American diplo-

matic and consular officers will facilitate to the utmost, consistent

with the immigration laws and regulations , the granting of nonimmi-

grant passport visas to qualified Belgian nationals who are in possession of valid Belgian passports.
HJL

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, October 26, 1948.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INDO-PACIFIC FISHERIES COUNCIL - FEB. 26, 1948 3711

Multilateral agreement respecting the establishment of the Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council . Formulated at Baguio February 26 , 1948 ; entered into force November 9, 1948.
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS ORGANISATION DES NATIONS UNIES POUR L'ALIMENTATION ET L'AGRICULTURE
FAO FISHERIES MEETING

February 26, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1895]

Baguio, Philippines 25-28 February 1948
AGREEMENT FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INDO-PACIFIC FISHERIES COUNCIL

On a motion from the Delegation of the United States seconded by the Delegate from the Netherlands the meeting
"RESOLVED
That the representatives of governments members of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations here assembled, recognizing the mutual interest of their several nations in the development and proper utilization of the living aquatic resources of the Indo-Pacific areas, and believing that this end can best be attained by international collaboration, do hereby recommend to their respective governments for consideration, the acceptance of the following agreement for the establishment of an Indo- Pacific Fisheries Council."
Preamble

60 Stat. 1886.

The Governments of Burma, China, France, India, the Netherlands , the Republic of the Philippines, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, members of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, having a mutual interest in the development and proper utilization of the living aquatic resources of the IndoPacific areas, and desiring to further the attainment of these ends through international cooperation by the establishment of an IndoPacific Fisheries Council agree as follows:

Article I

The Council

1. The contracting Governments agree to establish a Council, to be known as the Indo- Pacific Fisheries Council, for the purpose of carrying out the functions and duties hereinafter set forth in Article III.
2. The members of the Council shall be the Governments which
accept this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Article IX thereof.

Post, p. 3715.

3712 Post, p. 3715.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article II

Organization

1. Each member Government shall be represented at meetings of the

Council by a single delegate, who may be accompanied by an alternate and by experts and advisers . Participation in meetings of the Council by alternates, experts and advisers shall not entail the right to vote, except in the case of an alternate who is acting in the place of a delegate during his absence.
2. Each member Government shall have one vote. Decisions of the

Council shall be taken by a simple majority of the votes cast, except

as otherwise provided by this Agreement. A majority of the total membership of the Council shall constitute a quorum.
3. The Council shall elect a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman.

4. The Council shall determine the frequency, dates and place of its meeting and establish rules governing its procedure.

5. The chairman shall call a meeting of the Council at least once in

every year, unless directed otherwise by a majority of the member

Governments. The initial meeting shall be called by the Food and

Agriculture Organization of the United Nations within six months after the entry into force of this Agreement. and at such place as it may designate.
6. The seat of the Council shall be at the seat of the Regional Office of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations most

conveniently situated within the area defined in Article IV. Pending the establishment of such a Regional Office, the Council shall select a temporary seat within that area.

7. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations

shall provide the Secretariat for the Council and shall appoint its

Secretary .

Article III

Functions

The Council shall have the following functions and duties :
a. To formulate the oceanographical, biological and other technical aspects of the problems of development and proper utilization of living aquatic resources ;
b. To encourage and coordinate research and the application of improved methods in every day practices ;
c. To assemble, publish or otherwise disseminate oceanographical, biological and other technical information relating to living aquatic resources ;
d. To recommend to member Governments such national or cooperative research and development projects as may appear necessary or desirable to fill gaps in such knowledge ;
e. To undertake, where appropriate, cooperative research and development projects directed to this end ;

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INDO-PACIFIC FISHERIES COUNCIL-FEB. 26, 1948 3713
f. To propose, and where necessary to adopt, measures to bring about the standardization of scientific equipment, techniques and nomenclature ;
g. To extend its good offices in assisting member Governments to secure essential materials and equipment ;
h. To report upon such questions relating to oceanographical, biological and other technical problems as may be recommended to it by member Governments or by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and other international , national or private organizations, with related interests ;
i. To report annually to the Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations upon its activities, for the information of the Conference ; and to make such other reports to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations on matters falling within the competence of the Council as may seem to it necessary and desirable.
Article IV
Area
The Council shall carry out the functions and duties set forth in Article III in the Indo-Pacific areas.
Article V
Cooperation with International Bodies
The Council shall cooperate closely with other international bodies in matters of mutual interest.
Article VI
Expenses
1. The expenses of delegates and their alternates, experts and advisers occasioned by attendance at meetings of the Council shall be determined and paid by their respective Governments.
2. The expenses of the Secretariat, including publications and communications, and of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Council when performing duties connected with its work during intervals between its meeting, shall be determined and paid by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations within the limits of an annual budget prepared and approved in accordance with the current regulations of that Organization.
3. The expenses of research or development projects undertaken by individual members of the Council, whether independently or upon the recommendation of the Council, shall be determined and paid by their respective Governments.

3714

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
4. The expenses incurred in connection with cooperative research or development projects undertaken in accordance with the provisions of Article III, paragraphs ( d ) and ( e) unless otherwise available shall be determined and paid by the member Governments in the form and proportion to which they shall mutually agree.
Article VII
Amendments
Any proposal for amending this Agreement shall require the approval of a two-thirds majority of all the Members of the Council. An exception to this rule is made in the following cases :
(1 ) Amendments to the Agreement extending the functions of the Council require the approval of the Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in addition to approval by a two-thirds majority of all the Members of the Council ;
(2) Amendments of the Agreement extending the powers of the Council to incur expenses to be borne by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, shall require the approval of a two-thirds majority of all the Members of the Council and of the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
Article VIII
Acceptance
1. This Agreement shall be open to acceptance by Governments which are members of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
2. This Agreement shall also be open to acceptance by Governments which are not members of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, with the approval of the Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and of two-thirds of the members of the Council. Participation by such Governments in the activities of the Council shall be contingent upon the assumption of a proportionate share in the expenses of the Secretariat as determined by the Council and approved by the Food and Agriculture Organization Conference.
3. The notifications of acceptance of this Agreement shall be deposited with the Director- General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, who shall immediately inform all the Governments concerned of their receipt.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- INDO-PACIFIC FISHERIES COUNCIL-FEB. 26, 1948 3715

Article IX

Entry into Force
1. This Agreement shall enter into force upon the date of receipt of the fifth notification of acceptance. [ ¹ ]
2. Notifications of acceptance received after the entry into force of this Agreement shall enter into force on the date of their receipt by the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations who shall immediately inform all the Governments concerned and the Council of their receipt.
Article X

Withdrawal

Any member Government may withdraw from this Agreement, at any time after the expiration of two years from the date upon which the Agreement entered into force with respect to that Government by giving written notice of such withdrawal to the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations who shall immediately inform all the Governments concerned and the Council of such withdrawal. Notices of withdrawal shall become
effective three months from the date of their receipt by the DirectorGeneral.
Formulated at Baguio this 26th day of February, one thousand nine hundred and forty-eight, in the English language, in a single copy which shall be deposited in the archives of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, which shall furnish certified copies thereof to the Governments members of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.

Deposit.

and further "RESOLVED
That the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations be requested to communicate the text of the agreement adopted by the meeting, together with this resolution, to all governments members of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ; and that the governments here represented and any other member government that may be interested be invited to accept the agreement." and further "RESOLVED
That the working 2 Committees appointed at this Conference continue to function informally until the entry into force of the Agree-
¹Entered into force Nov. 9, 1948, the date of receipt, by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, of the fifth notification of acceptance. Notifications of acceptances have been received from the following countries : Burma, Jan. 7, 1949 ; China, Feb. 3, 1949 ; France, June 30, 1948 ; India , Nov. 9, 1948 ; the Netherlands, Nov. 12, 1948 ; the Philippines, July 23, 1948 ; Siam, Oct. 6, 1948 ; and the United States, Sept. 3, 1948.
' Committees on Hydrology, Biology, Taxonomy and Technology.

3716

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
ment in cooperation with the Fisheries Division of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations."
With respect to the first part of the resolution the Delegate of the United States made the following statement :
"The further instructions the U.S. Delegation has been awaiting regarding the need for referral of the Agreement to the FAO Conference have been received.
"These instructions permit concurrence in Resolution one with the qualification that the United States reserve its position with regard to the Agreement entering into effect without referral to the next FAO Conference.
"Since this matter has already been fully discussed and it is apparent that the U.S. position is not shared by other countries it is merely requested that the reservation on this one point be made a matter of record in the minutes of the meeting."
With respect to the resolutions the Delegate of France made a statement as follows :
"La délégation française accepte les résolutions de la Conférence dans leur rédaction en langue anglaise sous reserve de l'exactitude de la traduction française. "(The French delegation accepts the resolutions of the Conference in the English text, subject to the correctness of the French translation ) ."
Liaison with other International Bodies
It was moved by the Burmese Delegate, seconded by the U.S. Delegate, "That this meeting draws the attention of the proposed Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council to the need for the avoidance of duplication of effort between the proposed Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council and any similar bodies created by other International Organizations and desires to record its opinion that the Indo -Pacific Fisheries Council should be regarded as the principle organ in those fisheries matters coming within its competence."
I certify that this is a true and correct copy of the Agreement reached at Baguio, Philippines, February 26, 1948, for the Establishment of the Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council.
Hubuti. Herbert Broadley
Acting Director-General

62 STAT. ]

CANADA- POTATOES - NOV. 23, 1948

3717

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting control of exports ofpotatoes from Canada to the United States . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington November 23, 1948; entered
into force November 23, 1948.

November 23, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1896]

The Canadian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA

No. 538

WASHINGTON, D. C., November 23rd, 1948.

SIR,

I have the honour to refer to the discussions which have taken place

between the representatives of the Government of Canada and of

the Government of the United States of America regarding the problems which would confront the Government of the United States in

the operation of its price support and other programmes for potatoes if the imports of Canadian potatoes, during this current crop year, were to continue to be unrestricted. After careful consideration of the various representations which have been made to the Canadian Government on this subject, the Canadian Government is prepared to :

1. Include Irish potatoes in the list of commodities for which an export permit is required under the provisions of the Export and Import Permits Act.
2. Withhold export permits for the movement of table stock potatoes to the United States proper, excluding Alaska.
3. Issue export permits for the shipment of Canadian certified seed potatoes to the United States, but only under the following circumstances:

(a) Export permits will be issued to Canadian exporters for shipments to specified States in the United States and such permits will only be granted within the structure of a specific schedule. The schedule is designed to direct the shipment of Canadian certified seed potatoes into those States where there is a legitimate demand for certified seed potatoes and only during a short period immediately prior to the normal seeding time. A draft of this schedule is now being jointly prepared by Canadian and United States officials.
(b) Export permits would only be granted to Canadian exporters who could give evidence that they had firm orders from legitimate United States users of Canadian seed potatoes. Canadian exporters would also be required to have included in any contract into which they might enter with a United States seed potato importer a clause in which the importer would give an assurance that

3718

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

the potatoes would not be diverted or reconsigned for table stock purposes.
(c) The Canadian Government would survey the supply of Canadian certified seed potatoes by class and consider the possibility of giving precedence to the export of Foundation and Foundation A classes of certified seed .
(d) The names and addresses of the consignees entered on the export permit would be compiled periodically and this information would be forwarded to the United States Government.

In instituting a system which has the effect of restricting exports of Canadian potatoes to the United States, the Canadian Government recognizes a responsibility to the Canadian commercial grower in certain surplus potato areas and is prepared to guarantee a minimum return on gradable potatoes for which the grower cannot find a sales outlet. Although the details of such a programme have not been finalized, it is anticipated that the Canadian Government will
announce, at approximately the same time as potatoes are placed under export control, a floor price which will be effective April 1st, 1949 for certain carlot shipping areas in the East. To implement this programme the Canadian Government would inspect the potato holdings of commercial growers in Prince Edward Island , and several counties of New Brunswick, on or after April 1st and would undertake to pay a fixed price for every hundred pounds of Canada No. 1 potatoes found in the bins. It is not anticipated that any actual payment would be made at that time and it would be understood that if any of the potatoes examined were subsequently sold or used for seed purposes the owner would forfeit any claim for assistance on such po-
tatoes. In other words, the Canadian Government would make no payment on potatoes which move into export trade, or which are used for seed purposes.
It should be noted that the Canadian proposals to institute export permit control on Canadian potatoes and to inaugurate a price support programme are contingent upon assurances from the United States Government that :

46 Stat. 687. 19 U. S. C. § 1303.

a) The United States Government will not hereafter impose any quantitative limitations or fees on Canadian potatoes of the 1948 crop exported to the United States under the system of regulating the movement of potatoes from Canada to the United States outlined herein.
b) The Canadian Government proposal, as outlined herein, to guarantee a floor price to certain commercial growers in the Maritime Provinces would not be interpreted by United States authorities as either a direct or indirect subsidy and that in consequence there would be no grounds for the imposition of countervailing duties under Section 303 of the United States Tariff Act of 1930.
If the United States Government in its replying note accepts the Canadian proposals and gives to the Canadian Government the assurances required , as outlined above, this note and the reply thereto will constitute an agreement on this subject.

62 STAT. ]

CANADA- POTATOES- NOV. 23, 1948

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration . HH WRONG
The Honourable GEORGE C. MARSHALL,
Secretary of State of the United States, Washington, D. C.

3719

The Acting Secretary of State to the Canadian Ambassador

EXCELLENCY :

NOVEMBER 23, 1948

The Government of the United States appreciates the assurance of

the Government of Canada contained in your note no. 538 of November 23, 1948, that the Government of Canada is prepared, contingent upon

the receipt of certain assurances from the Government of the United States, to establish the controls outlined therein over the exportation of potatoes from Canada to the United States.

In view of the adverse effect which unrestricted imports of Canadian potatoes would have on the potato programs of the United States and the fact that it is anticipated that the Canadian proposal will substantially reduce the quantity of potatoes which would otherwise be imported into the United States, and in the interest of international trade between the United States and Canada and other considera-

tions, the United States Government assures the Canadian Government

that it will not hereafter impose any quantitative limitations or fees on Canadian potatoes of the 1948 crop imported into the United States under the system of regulating the movement of potatoes to the United States outlined in the Canadian proposal.
The Government of the United States also wishes to inform the

Canadian Government with respect to that Government's proposal to

guarantee a floor price to certain commercial growers in the Maritime Provinces, that in the opinion of the Treasury Department, the operation of such a proposal as outlined by the Canadian Government would not be considered as a payment or bestowal, directly or indirectly, of any bounty or grant upon the manufacture, production , or export of the potatoes concerned and no countervailing duty would, therefore, be levied, under the provisions of Section 303, Tariff Act of 1930, as a result of such operation of the proposal on potatoes imported from Canada.

The United States Government agrees that your note under reference, together with this reply, will constitute an agreement on this subject.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
ROBERT A. LOVETT

His Excellency HUME WRONG,

Acting Secretary of State of the United States of America

Ambassador of Canada.

46 Stat. 687. 19 U. S. C. § 1303.

3720

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

November 17, 20, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1897]

Agreements between the United States of America and France respecting economic cooperation under Public Law 472, 80th Congress, amending the agreement of June 28 , 1948. Effected by exchange of notes dated at Paris September 21 and October 8, 1948 ; entered into force October 8, 1948. And exchange of notes signed at Paris November 17 and 20, 1948; entered into force November 20 , 1948 .

The American Embassy to the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 907.

Paris, September 21 , 1948.

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to refer to the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States p.622223S. tat . , Pt . 2 , of America and France signed on June 28 , 1948. Examination of the official text of this Agreement has revealed a clerical error in
Article XII , paragraph 2 , which seriously affects the substance of p.622235S.tat . , Pt. 2, this paragraph. The proviso at the end of sub-paragraph (b),
which reads:

"provided, however, that Article V and paragraph 3 of Article VII shall remain in effect until two years after the date of such notice of intention to terminate, but not later than June 30, 1953."
should begin at the margin and should not be a part of sub-paragraph (b) . In other words, this proviso should modify both sub-paragraph (a) and sub-paragraph (b) .
The Embassy suggests that this note and the reply of the Foreign Office should constitute a recognition by the two Governments of the clerical error mentioned above and their agreement that the proviso applies to termination under both sub-paragraph (a) and subp.622234S. tat . , Pt . 2 , paragraph (b) of Article XII , paragraph 2 , of the Agreement under reference .
DJR The MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS ,
Paris .

The French Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

LIBERTÉ-ÉGALITÉ- FRATERNITÉ RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE

Service de Coopération Economique

PARIS, le

Le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères présente ses compliments à l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis et, en réponse à la note du 21 septembre

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-ECONOMIC COOPERATION_Sept . 21 , Oct. 8, 1948 Nov. 17, 20, 1948

de cette Ambassade, au sujet de l'interprétation de l'Article XII paragraphe 2 de l'Accord de Coopération Economique entre la France et les Etats-Unis d'Amérique relatif à l'application du programme de relèvement européen, a l'honneur de lui faire savoir que le texte en langue française de cet Accord , tel qu'il est rédigé, ne comporte pas d'erreur de présentation .
La seule interprétation qu'il soit possible de donner du document original en langue française est conforme à celle indiquée par l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis dans la note n° 907 , c'est-à-dire que la réserve qui se trouve à la fin du sous-paragraphe (b) :
"" étant entendu toutefois que l'Article V et le para-
graphe 3 de l'Article VII resteront en vigueur deux ans après la date de la notification de l'intention de mettre fin à l'Accord, mais en aucun cas après le 30 Juin 1953. "

modifie à la fois le sous-paragraphe (a ) et le sous-paragraphe (b) . En conséquence, le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères a l'honneur
de faire savoir à l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis qu'il est d'accord pour

que le texte officiel en langue anglaise relatif à l'Article XII paragraphe (b) soit modifié dans sa présentation , conformément aux indications données dans la note n° 907 de l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis mais

qu'il estime inutile d'apporter une modification au texte original en

langue française./.

-8 Oct 1948

AMBASSADE DES ETATS-UNIS Paris.

3721

Translation

MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS

LIBERTY, EQUALITY, FRATERNITY FRENCH REPUBLIC

Economic Cooperation Service

PARIS ,

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States and , in reply to the Embassy's note of

September 21 , with regard to the interpretation of Article XII , para-

graph 2 , of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between France and the United States of America relating to the application of the European recovery program, has the honor to inform it that the

62 Stat. , Pt . 2, p. 2234.

French text of this Agreement, as worded , does not contain any error in presentation.

The only interpretation it is possible to give to the original docu-

ment in the French language is in conformity with that indicated by

the Embassy of the United States in note No. 907 , that is, that the reservation which is at the end of sub-paragraph (b) :
"" étant entendu toutefois que l'Article V et le

62 Stat. , Pt . 2, p. 2248.

paragraphe 3 de l'Article VII resteront en vigueur deux ans après la date de la notification de l'intention de mettre fin à

l'Accord, mais en aucun cas après le 30 Juin 1953."

modifies both sub-paragraph (a) and sub-paragraph (b) .

3722

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Consequently , the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has the honor to inform the Embassy of the United States that it is in agreement that the official text in the English language relating to Article XII , paragraph (b) , should be amended in its presentation , in conformity with the indications given in note No. 907 of the Embassy of the United States, but that it considers it unnecessary to make an amendment in the original text in the French language .
Oct. 8, 1948 EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES
Paris.

The American Ambassador to the French Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 1211

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Paris, November 17, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Economic Cooperation Agreement

p.622223S.tat. , Pt . 2 , between our two Governments which was signed on June 28, 1948, and to call your attention to an apparent discrepancy between the

p.622228S,t2a24t2.., Pt . 2 , English and French texts in paragraph 5 of Article IV. The

English text in question reads as follows :

· · from any point

of entry in France to the consignee's designated point of delivery in

France 66

The French text of this passage reads as follows : depuis le lieu d'entrée en territoire métropolitain français ,

jusqu'au point de destination indiqué par le destinataire en territoire

métropolitain français."

In order that the paragraph under reference in the French text may

have the same territorial applicability as that in the English text,

p.622233S.tat ., Pt . 2 , when considered in the light of Article XI , I suggest that the French

text be amended to read as follows : ".

depuis le lieu d'entrée

en France , jusqu'au point de destination indiqué par le destinataire en France ."

If you agree, I propose that this note and your reply constitute a record of agreement to the abovementioned suggested amendment to the French text of the Economic Cooperation Agreement.
Please accept , Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
JEFFERSON CAFFERY

His Excellency M. ROBERT SCHUMAN, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Paris.

Sept. 21, Oct. 8, 1948 62 STAT. ] FRANCE-ECONOMIC COOPERATION- Nov. 17, 20, 1948

The French Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

LIBERTÉ ÉGALITÉ . FRATERNITÉ

MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE PARIS, le 20 Novembre 1948

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR ,

Votre Excellence a bien voulu attirer mon attention , par sa com-

munication du 17 novembre, sur une légère différence de texte qui apparaît entre la version française et la version anglaise de l'Accord de Coopération Economique signé entre les deux Gouvernements le 28 juin dernier.

Le paragraphe 5 de l'Article 4 de cet Accord se lit en effet ".

from any point of entry in France to the consignee's designated point of delivery in France . · .", alors que le texte français porte ".

depuis le lieu d'entrée en territoire métropolitain français , jusqu'au

point de destination indiqué par le destinataire en territoire métro-

politain français ".

Ainsi que Votre Excellence a bien voulu le suggérer, le texte

français devrait se lire dorénavant ".

depuis le lieu d'entrée

en France, jusqu'au point de destination indiqué par le destinataire

en France" , l'expression "France" devant être entendue au sens de l'Article XI de l'Accord.

Ainsi que Votre Excellence a bien voulu le proposer, sa lettre du 17 Novembre et ma réponse de ce jour constitueront l'accord de nos deux Gouvernements à la modification de rédaction envisagée .
Je saisis cette occasion , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, pour renouveler à Votre Excellence les assurances de ma haute considération ./.
SCHUMAN Son Excellence
l'Honorable JEFFERSON CAFFERY Ambassadeur des Etats- Unis d'Amérique à Paris.

3723

Translation

LIBERTY, EQUALITY, FRATERNITY

MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
MR. AMBASSADOR :

FRENCH REPUBLIC PARIS, November 20, 1948

Your Excellency was so good as to call my attention , in your com-

munication of November 17 , to a slight difference in the texts of the

French and English versions of the Economic Cooperation Agreement

signed between the two Governments on June 28 , last .

Paragraph 5 of Article 4 of this Agreement reads in effect : 66

... from any point of entry in France to the consignee's desig-

nated point of delivery in France

· ", while the French text

62 Stat. , Pt. 2, p. 2228.

3724

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

states : ".

depuis le lieu d'entrée en territoire métropolitain

français, jusqu'au point de destination indiqué par le destinataire en

territoire métropolitain français" .

As you were good enough to suggest, the French text should hence-

forth read ". ·

depuis le lieu d'entrés en France , jusqu'au point

p.622233S.tat . , Pt . 2 ,

de destination indiqué par le destinataire en France ", the word "France" being understood in the sense of Article XI of the Agreement.
As you were so good as to propose, your letter of November 17 and

my reply of today's date shall constitute the agreement of our two Governments to the amendment in wording envisaged.

I avail myself of this occasion , Mr. Ambassador , to renew to Your

Excellency the assurances of my high consideration .

SCHUMAN

His Excellency JEFFERSON CAFFERY,

Ambassador of the United States of America in Paris.

62 STAT. ] UNITED NATIONS-LOAN FOR HEADQUARTERS- MAR. 23, 1948

3725

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Nations respecting a loan for construction and furnishing of the headquarters of the United Nations. Signed at Lake Success, New York, March 23, 1948; entered into force August 30, 1948 .
LOAN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE UNITED NATIONS

March 23, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1899]

It is hereby agreed by the Government of the United States of America and the United Nations as follows :

(1 ) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Gov- ttioun,metfco.r, ocfonUs.trNue. ernment of the United States will lend to the United Nations a sum headquarters.

not to exceed in the aggregate $65,000,000 . Such sum shall be expended only as authorized by the United Nations for the construction

and furnishing of the permanent headquarters of the United Nations

in its headquarters district in The City of New York, as defined in

the Agreement Between the United States of America and the United

Nations Regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success, New York, on June 26, 1947, including the necessary architectural and engineering work, landscaping, underground

61 Stat . , Pt . 4, p. 3416.

construction and other appropriate improvements to the land and

approaches, and for other related purposes and expenses incident thereto.

(2) Such sum, or parts thereof, will be advanced by the United

States through the Secretary of State, to the United Nations upon request of the Secretary-General or other duly authorized officer of the United Nations and upon the certification of the architect or engineer in charge of construction , countersigned by the Secretary-General or other duly authorized officer, that the amount requested is required to cover payments for the purposes set forth in paragraph ( 1 ) above which either ( a ) have been at any time made by the United Nations, or (b) are due and payable, or ( c ) it is estimated will become due and payable within sixty days from the date of such request. All sums not used by the United Nations for the purposes set forth in paragraph ( 1 ) will be returned to the United States through the Secretary of State when no longer required for said purposes . No amounts will be advanced hereunder after July 1 , 1951 , or such later date, not after July 1 , 1955 , as may be agreed to by the Secretary of State.

(3) All sums advanced hereunder will be receipted for on behalf of the United Nations by the Secretary-General or other duly authorized officer of the United Nations.
Annual payments (4 ) The United Nations will repay, without interest, to the United by the U. N. States the principal amount of all sums advanced hereunder, in annual payments beginning on July 1, 1951, and on the dates and in the

3726

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

amounts indicated , until the entire amount advanced under this agree-

ment has been repaid as follows :

Date

Amount

July 1, 1951 July 1, 1952 July 1, 1953 July 1, 1954 July 1, 1955 July 1, 1956 July 1 , 1957 July 1, 1958 July 1, 1959 July 1, 1960 July 1 , 1961 July 1 , 1962 July 1, 1963 July 1, 1964 July 1, 1965 July 1, 1966

$1, 000, 000 1, 000, 000 1,500,000 1,500,000 2, 000, 000 2, 000, 000 2, 000, 000 2, 000, 000 2, 000, 000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2, 500, 000 2,500,000

Date
July 1 , 1967 July 1 , 1968 July 1, 1969 July 1, 1970 July 1, 1971 July 1, 1972 July 1, 1973 July 1, 1974 July 1, 1975 July 1 , 1976 July 1, 1977 July 1, 1978 July 1, 1979 July 1, 1980 July 1, 1981 July 1, 1982

Amount
$2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,000,000

However, in the event the United Nations does not request the entire

sum of $65,000,000 available to it under this Agreement, the amount

to be repaid under this paragraph will not exceed the aggregate amount

advanced by the United States. All amounts payable to the United

States under this paragraph will be paid , out of the ordinary budget

of the United Nations, to the Secretary of State of the United States in currency of the United States which is legal tender for public

debts on the date such payments are made. All sums repaid to the

United States will be receipted for on behalf of the United States by

the Secretary of State.

(5 ) The United Nations may at any time make repayments to the United States of funds advanced hereunder in excess of the annual

Restrictions on the U. N.
p.631432S. tat. , Pt . 4,

installments as provided in paragraph (4) hereof. (6) The United Nations agrees that, in order to give full effect to
Section 22 (a ) of the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations referred to in paragraph ( 1 ) above ( under which the

United Nations shall not dispose of all or any part of the land owned by it in the headquarters district without the consent of the United

States ) , it will not, without the consent of the United States, while

any of the indebtedness incurred hereunder is outstanding and unpaid, create any mortgage, lien or other encumbrance on or against any of

Effective date.

its real property in the headquarters district as defined in said Agreement. The United Nations also agrees that the United States, as a condition to giving its consent to any such disposition or encumbrance, may require the simultaneous repayment of the balance of all installments remaining unpaid hereunder.
(7) The effective date [ 1 ] of this Agreement shall be the date on which the Government of the United States notifies the United Nations that the Congress of the United States, with the approval of the

¹Aug. 30, 1948. See post , p. 3727.

62 STAT. ] UNITED NATIONS-LOAN FOR HEADQUARTERS -MAR. 23, 1948

President, has made available the funds necessary to be advanced in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
In Witness Whereof, the Government of the United States of America, acting by and through the United States Representative to the United Nations, and the United Nations, acting by and through the Secretary-General, have respectively caused this Agreement to be duly signed in duplicate at Lake Success, New York on this 23rd day of March, 1948.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :

WARREN R. AUSTIN,

United States Representative to the United Nations

[ SEAL ]

FOR THE UNITED NATIONS : TRYGVE LIE
Secretary- General

3727

The United States Representative to the United Nations Secretary-General

UN. 1657/C

UNITED STATES MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS August 30, 1948

The United States Representative at the Seat of the United Nations presents his compliments to the Secretary-General of the United Nations and has the honor to notify him that on August 11 , 1948, the

Procedure for loan.

President of the United States of America signed the Bill (now Public Law 903 ) authorizing a $ 65,000,000 interest -free loan to the United Nations for the construction of the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York.

62 Stat . , Pt . 1, p. 1286.

The United States Representative has the honor to advise the Secretary-General that the general procedure whereby the United States Government will make available to the United Nations funds

in accordance with the Headquarters Loan Agreement, and whereby reports will be rendered thereon, will be as follows :

1. The Secretary-General will deposit with the Department of State, through the United States Mission to the United Nations, formal designations of the persons who will serve, within the terms of Section 2 of the Agreement, as duly authorized officers for requesting the advance of funds.

Ante, p. 3725.

2. Requests for advances will be made to the United States Department of State, through the United States Mission to the United Nations, over the signature of the Secretary-General or a duly authorized officer, and will bear certification as to whether the request is to cover payments by the United Nations which

3728 Ante, p. 3725.
Repayments.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(a ) have been made, (b) are due and payable, or (c ) it is estimated will become due and payable within sixty
days of the date of request,
and which are for purpose cited in Section 1 of the Agreement. The certification should cite the broad category of expense covered, and will be signed by the architect or engineer in charge of construction and countersigned by the Secretary-General or a duly authorized officer.
3. The Secretary-General or a duly authorized officer will sign a receipt for each payment received and will forward the receipt. to the United States Department of State through the United States Mission to the United Nations.
4. The Secretary- General or a duly authorized officer will report periodically to the United States Department of State, through the United States Mission to the United Nations, on amounts which will be available for return to the Department as funds which have not been disbursed within ninety ( 90) days of their receipt. Return to the Department of State through the United States Mission to the United Nations will be effected within thirty (30) days after expiration of the ninety ( 90 ) day period.
5. Repayments under the repayment schedule beginning July 1, 1951 , will be made to the United States Department of State through the United States Mission to the United Nations and receipted for on behalf of the United States by the Secretary of State or his duly authorized representative.
6. Pending the appropriation by the Congress of the full amount of of the loan, advances will be limited to the twenty-five million dollars ( $25,000,000.00 ) to be available to the Department under the Reconstruction Finance Corporation loan. The SecretaryGeneral will be notified immediately when the funds are available to the Department and may be drawn upon by the United Nations .
It is understood that representatives of the Department of State are in consultation with officials of the United Nations regarding details of the documentation and , in particular, regarding the details of provision four above .
Certified photostatic copy :
For the Secretary-General,

Ivan Kerno Assistant Secretary-General in charge of the Legal Department

62 STAT. ] ITALY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 6, 1948

3729

Agreement and protocol between the United States of America and Italy respecting air transport services . Signed at Rome February 6, 1948; operative from February 6, 1948 ; entered into force definitively September 2, 1948.

February 6, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1902 ]

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT between the Government of the United States of America
and the Government of Italy

ACCORDO PER I TRASPORTI AEREI tra il Governo Italiano ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti
d' America

3730

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT between the Government of the United States of America
and the Government of Italy

The GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA and the GOVERNMENT OF ITALY :
Desiring to conclude an Agreement for the purpose of promoting direct air communications between their respective territories,
Have accordingly appointed authorized representatives for this purpose, who have agreed as follows :
Article 1

"Aeronautical authorities."

For the purposes of the present Agreement , and its Annex, except where the text provides otherwise :
(a) The term « aeronautical authorities » shall mean in the case of the United States of America ,the « Civil Aeronautics Board » and any person or agency
authorized to perform the functions exercised at the present time by the « Civil Aeronautics Board » and , in the case of Italy, the Ministry of Defense - Air

[ Direzione Generale dell'Aviazione Civile e Traffico Aereo ], and any person or

agency authorized to perform the functions exercised at present by the said Ministry of Defense - Air [ Direzione Generale dell'Aviazione Civile e Traffico

Aereo ].

"Designated airlines."

(b) The term « designated airlines » shall mean those airlines that the aeronautical authorities of one of the contracting parties have communicated

in writing to the aeronautical authorities of the other contracting party that

they are the airlines that it has designated in conformity with Article 3 of the

"Territory. "

present Agreement for the routes specified in such designation. (c) The term « territory » shall have the meaning given to it by Article 2

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1181.

of the Convention on International Civil Aviation , signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944 .
(d) The definitions contained in paragraphs (a), ( b) and (d) of Article 96

61 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1207.

of the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on Decem. ber 7, 1944 shall be applied to the present Agreement and its Annex.

Article 2

Rights. Post, p. 3740.

Each contracting party grants to the other contracting party the rights as specified in the Annex hereto necessary for establishing the international civil air routes and services therein described , whether such services be inaugurated immediately or at a later date at the option of the contracting party to whom the rights are granted.

62 STAT. ] ITALY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 6, 1948

3731

ACCORDO PER I TRASPORTI AEREI tra il Governo Italiano ed il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America
II GOVERNO ITALIANO ed il GOVERNO DEGLI STATI UNITI di AMERICA :
desiderando concludere un Accordo allo scopo di promuovere comunicazioni aeree dirette fra i loro rispettivi territori, hanno pertanto nominato i propri rappresentanti, i quali debitamente autorizzati, convengono quanto segue :
Articolo 1
Ai fini del presente Accordo e del suo Allegato, salvo nei casi ove il testo provveda altrimenti :
a) « Autorità acronautiche » significa, nel caso che si riferisca agli Stati Uniti d'America, il « Civil Aeronautics Board » e qualsiasi persona o Ente autorizzati ad assolvere le funzioni esercitate attualmente dal « Civil Aeronautics Board »; nel caso che si riferisca all'Italia il Ministero della Difesa-Aeronautica, Direzione Generale dell'Aviazione Civile e Traffico Aereo, e qualsiasi persona od Ente autorizzati ad assolvere le funzioni esercitate attualmente dal Ministero della Difesa Aeronautica, Direzione Generale dell'Aviazione Civile e Traffico Aereo.
b) « Imprese di trasporto aereo designate » indica le persone, o società o enti che, secondo quanto sarà stato comunicato per iscritto dalle autorità aeronautiche di una delle Parti Contraenti alle autorità aeronautiche dell'altra Parte Contraente, siano stati designati , in conformità dell'art. 3 del presente Accordo, a svolgere attività su ciascuna delle rotte indicate con detta comunicazione .
c) << Territorio » ha il significato ad esso attribuito dall'art. 2 della Convenzione per l'Aviazione Civile Internazionale di Chicago del 7 dicembre 1944.
d) Si applicano al presente Accordo ed al suo Allegato , le definizioni contenute nei paragrafi a) , b) e d) dell'art. 96 della Convenzione per l'Aviazione Civile Internazionale di Chicago del 7 dicembre 1944.
Articolo 2
Ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti concede all'altra Parte Contraente i diritti, specificati nell'Allegato, necessari per stabilire le rotte ed i servizi aerei civili internazionali, ivi descritti, sia che detti servizi abbiano inizio immediatamente, sia che abbiano inizio in data posteriore, a scelta della Parte Contraente alla quale tali diritti sono concessi.
68706-52-PT. III- --71

3732

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 3

Inauguration of air services.
Post, p. 3734.

Each of the air services so described shall be placed in operation as soon as the contracting party to whom the rights have been granted by Article 2 to designate an airline or airlines for the route concerned has authorized an airline for such route, and the contracting party granting the rights shall , subject to Article 7 hereof, be bound to give the appropriate operating permission to the airline or airlines concerned , provided that :
1. the airlines so designated may be required to qualify before the competent aeronautical authorities of the contracting party granting the rights under the laws and regulations normally applied by these authorities before being permitted to engage in the operations contemplated by the present Agreement ; and,
2. in areas of hostilities or of military occupation, or in areas affected thereby, such operations shall be subject to the approval of the competent military authorities.

Charges. Post, p. 3740.

Article 4
In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality of treatment, both contracting parties agree that :
(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the contracting parties agrees , however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) Fuel, lubricating oils and spare parts introduced into the territory of one contracting party by the other contracting party or its nationals , and intended solely for use by aircraft of the airlines of such contracting party shall, with respect to the imposition of customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party whose territory is entered, be accorded the same treatment as that applying to national airlines and to airlines of the most-favored - nation .
(c) The fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the Annex shall, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other contracting party, be exempt from customs, inspection fees or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

Article 5

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.

Certificates of airworthiness , certificates of competency and licenses issued or rendered valid by one contracting party and still in force shall be recognized as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating the routes

62 STAT. ] ITALY- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- FEB. 6, 1948
Articolo 3
Ciascuno dei servizi acrei specificati nell'Allegato avrà inizio appena la Parte Contraente, alla quale a norma dell'art. 2, sia stato concesso il diritto di designare una o più imprese di trasporto aereo sulla rotta specificata , abbia autorizzato una impresa di trasporto aereo a svolgere attività su tale rotta.
La Parte Contraente che concede il diritto sarà obbligata, ai sensi dell'art. 7 del presente Accordo, a concedere il permesso di funzionamento alle imprese di trasporto aereo interessate che le saranno state debitamente notificate, a condizione che :
1) alle imprese di trasporto aereo designate nell'Allegato possa essere richiesto, prima che sia loro concesso di iniziare le attività previste dal presente Accordo, di dimostrare alle autorità aeronautiche della Parte Contraente che concede i diritti, che esse sono in grado di adempiere alle disposizioni legislative e regolamentari normalmente stabilite dalla Parte concedente i diritti ;
2) nelle zone ove sono in corso operazioni di guerra, o di occupazione militare, o nelle zone ad esse connesse, tali attività aeree siano soggette all'approvazione delle competenti autorità militari.
Articolo 4
Ai fini di prevenire pratiche discriminatorie e di assicurare parità di trattamento, le due Parti Contraenti convengono quanto segue :
a) Ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti può imporre o permettere che siano imposte tasse giuste e ragionevoli per l'uso degli aeroporti pubblici e degli altri impianti posti sotto il suo controllo. Ognuna delle Parti Contraenti si impegna, nondimeno, che dette tasse non siano maggiori di quelle dovute, per l'uso di detti aeroporti e impianti, dai propri aeromobili nazionali adibiti ad analoghi servizi internazionali .
b) Ai combustibili , lubrificanti, pezzi di ricambio introdotti nel territorio 'di una Parte Contraente dall'altra Parte Contraente o dai suoi cittadini per l'uso esclusivo degli aeromobili delle imprese di trasporto aereo di tale Parte Contraente, si concede, per ciò che concerne i diritti doganali, diritti di ispezione od altri diritti nazionali o tasse della Parte Contraente nel cui territorio si introducono, lo stesso trattamento applicato alle imprese di trasporto aereo nazionali o alle imprese di trasporto aereo della nazione più favorita.
c) I combustibili, i lubrificanti, i pezzi di ricambio, le dotazioni normali e i rifornimenti che sono rimasti a bordo degli aeromobili civili delle imprese di trasporto aereo di una Parte Contraente autorizzata a gestire le rotte ed i servizi descritti nell'Allegato, all'entrata nel territorio dell'altra Parte Contraente e all'uscita da esso, sono esenti da diritti doganali , tasse d'ispezione, diritti o tasse simili, ancorchè detti materiali siano usati o consumati da detti aeromobili in volo su tale territorio .
Articolo 5
I certificati di navigabilità, i brevetti e le licenze, rilasciati e resi validi da ana Parte Contraente ed in corso di validità, sono riconosciuti come validi dall'altra Parte Contraente per quanto concerne lo svolgimento dell'attività sulle

3733

3734

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Post, p. 3740.

and services described in the Annex. Each contracting party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another State.

Article 6

Laws and regulations.

(a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft of the airlines designated by the other contracting party, and shall be complied with by such aircraft upon enter ing or departing from or while within the territory of the first party.
(b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers , crew, or cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew
or cargo of the airlines designated by the other contracting party upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

Article 7

Withholding or revocation of rights.
Post, p. 3740.

Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 9 hereof, each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke the exercise of the rights specified inthe Annex to the present Agreement by a carrier designated by the other contracting party in the event that it is not satisfied that substantial ownership and effective control of such carrier are vested in nationals of the other contracting party, or in case of failure by such carrier, or the Government designating such carrier, to comply with the laws and regulations referred to in Article 6 hereof, or otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder or to fulfil the conditions under which the rights are granted in accordance with the present Agreement and its Annex.

Registration.

Article 8
The present Agreement, its Annex, and all contracts connected therewith shall be registered with the International Civil Aviation Organization (I.C.A.O.).

Article 9

Notice of intention to terminate agree ment.

Either of the contracting parties may at any time notify the other of its intention to terminate the present Agreement. Such a notice shall be sent simultaneously to the International Civil Aviation Organization . In the event such communication is made, the present Agreement shall terminate one year after the date ofreceipt of the notice to terminate, unless by agreement between

62 STAT. ] ITALY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES - FEB. 6, 1948
rotte e nei servizi descritti nell'Allegato. Tuttavia , ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti xi riserva il diritto di non riconoscere, per i voli sul proprio territorio, i brevetti e le licenze rilasciati ai suoi cittadini da un altro Stato.
Articolo 6
a) Le leggi ed i regolamenti di una Parte Contraente, che disciplinano l'entrata nel proprio territorio o l'uscita da esso di aeromobili destinati alla navigazione aerea internazionale e l'esercizio di tali aeromobili mentre si trovano nel territorio della stessa Parte Contraente, si applicano agli aeromobili delle imprese di trasporto aereo designate dall'altra Parte Contraente e devono essere osservati da tali aeromobili nell'entrare e nell'uscire o mentre si trovano nel territorio della prima Parte.
b) Le leggi ed i regolamenti di una Parte Contraente, che disciplinano l'entrata nel proprio territorio o l'uscita da esso dei passeggeri, degli equipaggi e del carico degli aeromobili, così come le disposizioni relative all'entrata, all'uscita, alla emigrazione, ai passaporti, alle dogane e alle pratiche sanitarie, si applicano ai passeggeri, agli equipaggi, ed al carico delle imprese di trasporto aereo, designate dall'altra Parte Contraente, all'entrata, all'uscita o durante la permanenza nel territorio della prima Parte.
Articolo 7
Salvo quanto dispone il successivo art. 9, ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti si riserva il diritto di negare o revocare l'esercizio dei diritti specificati nell'Allegato al prosente Accordo, alle imprese di trasporto aereo designate dall'altra Parte Contraente, ove non sia soddisfatta la condizione che una parte importante della proprietà ed il controllo effettivo di tali imprese si trovino nelle mani di persone aventi la nazionalità dell'altra Parte Contraente, o nel caso in cui le dette imprese o il Governo che lo abbia designate, non adempiano allo leggi ed ai regolamenti indicati nell'art. 6 del presente Accordo, o altrimenti non si attengano alle conseguenti obbligazioni, o cessino dal soddisfare alle condizioni cui i diritti sono subordinati, a norma del presente Accordo e del suo Allegato.
Articolo 8
Il presente Accordo ed il suo Allegato, ed ogni altro atto o strumento ad essi relativo, saranno registrati presso l'Organizzazione dell'Aviazione Civile Internazionale (O. A. C. I.).
Articolo 9
Ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti può, in qualsiasi momento, comunicare all'altra Parte Contraente la sua intenzione di denunciare il presente Accordo. La comunicazione sarà inviata contemporaneamente all'Organizzazione dell'Aviazione Civile Internazionale (O. A. C. I. ) . Ove tale comunicazione sia effettuata, il presente Accordo cessa di avere effetto un anno dopo la data nella quale sia stata ricevuta la comunicazione della denuncia salvo che, per accordo

3735

3736

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

the contracting parties the communication under reference is withdrawn before the expiration of that time. If the other contracting party fails to acknowledge receipt, notice shall be deemed as having been received fourteen (14) days after its receipt by the International Civil Aviation Organization (I.C.A.O.).

Article 10

Modification of annex.
Post, p. 3740.

In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable to modify the routes or conditions set forth in the attached Annex, it may request consultation between the competent authorities of both contracting parties , such consultation to begin within a period of sixty ( 60 ) days from the date of therequest. When these authorities mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting the Annex, their recommendations on the matter will come into effect after they have been confirmed by an exchange of diplomatic notes.

Amendment.

Article 11
If a general multilateral air transport Convention accepted by both contracting parties enters into force, the present Agreement shall be amended so as to conform with the provisions of such Convention.

Disputes. Post, p. 3740

Article 12
Except as otherwise provided in the present Agreement or its Annex, any dispute between the contracting parties relative to the interpretation or application of the present Agreement or its Annex, which cannot be settled through consultation , shall be submitted for an advisory report to a tribunal of three arbitrators , one to be named by each contracting party, and the third to be agreed upon by the two arbitrators so chosen, provided that such third arbitrator shall not be a national of either contracting party.
Each of the contracting parties shall designate an arbitrator within two months of the date of delivery by either party to the other party of a diplomatic note requesting arbitration of a dispute ; and the third arbitrator shall be agreed upon within one month after such period of two months. Ifthe third arbitrator is not agreed upon , within the time limitation indicated , the vacancy thereby created shall be filled by the appointment of a person, designated by the President of the Council of I. C. A. O. , from a panel of arbitral personnel maintained in accordance with the practice of I. C. A. O. The executive authorities of the contracting parties will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in any such advisory report. A moiety of the expenses of the arbitral tribunal shall be borne by each party.

Changes in routes. Post, p.37481

Article 13
Changes made by either contracting party in the routes described in the schedules attached except those which change the points served by these airlines in the territory of the other contracting party shall not be considered as modifi-

62 STAT. ] ITALY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- FEB. 6 , 1948
tra le Parti Contraenti, tale comunicazione sia annullata prima dello spirare di detto termine. Qualora l'altra Parte Contraente non accusi ricezione della comunicazione, questa si considera ricevuta quattordici (14) giorni dopo la data in cui essa sia pervenuta alla Organizzazione dell'Aviazione Civile Internazionale (O. A. C. I.).
Articolo 10
Se una delle Parti Contraenti intende di modificare le rotte o le condizioni prevedute nell'Allegato, essa può richiedere una consultazione tra le autorità competenti di ambo le Parti Contraenti ; tale consultazione deve iniziarsi entro i sessanta (60) giorni dalla data della richiesta. Qualora le dette autorità concordino nuove condizioni o modifiche al contenuto dell'Allegato, le loro decisioni entreranno in vigore dopo che siano state confermate con uno scambio di note diplomatiche.
Articolo 11
Nel caso in cui una convenzione multilaterale per i trasporti aerei, sottoscritta e ratificata da ambo le Parti Contraenti, entri in vigore, il presente Accordo sarà modificato in guisa da concordare con le disposizioni contenute in tale convenzione.
Articolo 12
Salvo diverse disposizioni del presente Accordo e del suo Allegato, ogni controversia tra le Parti Contraenti, circa l'interpretazione e l'applicazione del presente Accordo e del suo Allegato, che non possa essere risolta a mezzo di consultazioni, sarà sottoposta al giudizio di una commissione arbitrale di tre membri, due dei quali saranno nominati dalle due Parti Contraenti ed il terzo scelto d'accordo dai due sopracitati membri, purchè questo terzo non abbia la nazionalità di una delle due Parti Contraenti.
Ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti designerà l'arbitro entro il periodo di due mesi dalla data di consegna dall'una all'altra Parte di una nota diplomatica richiedente un giudizio arbitrale ; il terzo arbitro sarà scelto entro un mese trascorso il detto periodo. Se entro il limite di tempo indicato non è stato raggiunto l'accordo sulla scelta del terzo membro, questi verrà nominato dal Presidente del Consiglio dell'O. A. C. I., tra le persone comprese nella lista di arbitri tenuta a norma dei regolamenti dell'O. A. C. I. Le competenti autorità delle Parti Contraenti faranno del loro meglio, con i poteri loro attribuiti, per uniformarsi al parere espresso dagli arbitri. Le spese per il giudizio arbitrale saranno sostenute per metà da ciascuna delle Parti.
Articolo 13
I cambiamenti introdotti da una delle Parti Contraenti alle rotte descritte nei relativi elenchi della Tabella non saranno considerati quali modifiche all'Allegato, salvo quelli che modifichino gli scali serviti dalle imprese di trasporto

3737

3738

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Notice.
Consultation. Post, p. 3742.

cations of the Annex. The aeronautical authorities of either contracting party may therefore proceed unilaterally to make such changes, provided, however, that notice of any change is given without delay to the aeronautical authorities of the other contracting party.
If such other aeronautical authorities find that, having regard to the prin-
ciples set forth in Section VII of the Annex to the present Agreement, interests of their air carrier or carriers are prejudiced by the carriage by the air carrier or carriers of the first contracting party of traffic between the territory of the second contracting party and the new point in the territory of the third country, the two contracting parties shall consult with a view to arrive at a satisfactory agreement.

Article 14

Provisional authorization superseded.

The present Agreement supersedes the provisional authorization for United States civil air services granted by the Italian Government in its Notes verbale dated July 16, 1945 , October 1 , 1946 [ ' ] and April 14 , 1947. [ ' }

Article 15

Entry into force.

The present Agreement, including the provisions of the Annex thereto, shall become operative from the day it is signed. The Italian Government shall notify the Government of the United States of the completion of formalities prescribed by the internal legislation of Italy, and the Government of the United States shall consider the Agreement as becoming definitive upon the date of such notification.[ 2 ]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have signed the present Agreement.

Authentic languages.

DONE in duplicate, at Rome, this 6th day of February 1948, in the English and Italian languages, each of which shall be of equal authenticity.

For the Government of the United States
of America
clrmenDrum

For the Government of Italy

¹ Not printed. Entered into force definitively Sept. 2, 1948, the date of a communication from
the Italian Embassy at Washington to the Department of State giving notification of the completion of formalities prescribed by the internal legislation of Italy in respect of the agreement.

62 STAT. ] ITALY- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- FEB. 6, 1948
aereo nel territorio dell'altra Parte Contraente. Le autorità aeronautiche di ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti potranno pertanto procedere unilateralmente ad effettuare i detti cambiamenti, semprechè no diano immediata notifica alle autorità acronautiche dell'altra Parte Contraente.
Se l'una o l'altra delle dette autorità aeronautiche ritenga che, in relazione ai principí enunciati nella sezione VII dell'Allegato al presente Accordo, i trasporti effettuati dalle imprese di trasporto aereo della prima Parte Contraente tra il territorio della seconda Parte Contraente e una nuova località nel territorio di un terzo Stato, ledano gli interessi delle proprie imprese di trasporto aereo, le due Parti Contraenti si consulteranno al fine di giungere ad un accordo soddisfacente.
Articolo 14
Il presente Accordo sostituisce le autorizzazioni provvisorie rilasciate dal Governo Italiano a favore dei servizi aerei civili degli Stati Uniti con le Note Verbali del 16 luglio 1945, del 1° ottobre 1946 e del 14 aprile 1947.
Articolo 15
Il presente Accordo ed il suo Allegato avranno effetto dal giorno della firma. Il Governo Italiano notificherà al Governo degli Stati Uniti l'adempimento delle formalità stabilite dalla legislazione interna italiana e, nei riguardi del Governo degli Stati Uniti , l'Accordo diverrà definitivo alla data della notifica .

IN FEDE DI CHE , i sottoscritti hanno firmato il presente Accordo.
FATTO in duplice originale, a Roma, il 6 febbraio 1948 , nelle lingue ita liana ed inglese, i duo testi facendo egualmente fede.

Per il Governo Italiano

Per il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America
James Arms Drus

3739

68706-52-~ PT. III- -72

3740

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

ANNEX

SECTION I

U. 8. rights of transit in Italy.
Post, p. 3748.

The Government of Italy grants to the Government of the United States of America the right to conduct air transport services by one or more air carriers of United States nationality designated by the latter country on the routes, specified in Schedule One attached, which transit or serve commercially the territory of Italy.
SECTION II

Italian rights of transit in U. 8.
Post, p. 3748.

The Government of the United States of America grants to the Government of Italy the right to conduct air transport services by one or more air carriers of Italian nationality designated by the latter country on the routes, specified in Schedule Two attached which transit or serve commercially the territory of the United States of America.

Post , p. 3748.

SECTION III
One or more air carriers designated by each of the contracting parties under the conditions provided in the present Agreement and the Annex thereto will enjoy, in the territory of the other contracting party, rights of transit and of stops for non-traffic purposes, as well as the right of commercial entry and departure for international traffic in passengers, cargo and mail at the points enumerated on each of the routes specified in the Schedules attached.

SECTION IV

The air transport facilities (facilitazioni) available hereunder to the travelling public shall bear a close relationship to the requirements of the public for such transport .

SECTION V

Equal opportunity for operation.
Ante, p. 3730,

There shall be a fair and equal opportunity for the carriers of the contracting parties to operate on any route between their respective territories covered by the present Agreement and Annex.

SECTION VI
In the operation by the air carriers of either contracting party of the trunk services (servizi a lungo percorso) described in the present Annex, the interest of the air carriers of the other contracting party shall be taken into consid eration so as not to affect unduly the services which the latter provides on all or part of the same routes .

62 STAT.] ITALY- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 6, 1948

3741

ALLEGATO
SEZIONE I
Il Governo Italiano concede al Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America il diritto di esercire servizi di trasporto aereo sulle rotte specificate al n. 1 dell'unita Tabella, che transitino o facciano scalo commerciale in territorio italiano, con una o più imprese di trasporto acreo di nazionalità statunitense, designate dal Governo degli Stati Uniti. "
SEZIONE II
Il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America concede al Governo Italiano il diritto di esercire servizi di trasporto aereo sulle rotte specificate al n. 2 dell'unita Tabella, che transitino o facciano scalo commerciale in territorio statunitense, con una o più imprese di trasporto aereo di nazionalità italiana, designate dal Governo Italiano.
SEZIONE III
Le imprese di trasporto aereo designate da ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti secondo le disposizioni dell'Accordo e del presente Allegato, godranno, nel territorio dell'altra Parte Contraente, dei diritti di transito e di scalo per fini non di traffico, così come del diritto di caricare e di scaricare passeggeri, merci e posta in traffico internazionale, nei punti indicati in ciascuna delle rotte specificate negli elenchi allegati.
SEZIONE IV
Le facilitazioni relativo ai trasporti aerei (facilities) offerte in virtù del presente Allegato, devono corrispondere strettamente alle esigenze dei viaggiatori.
SEZIONE V
Le imprese di trasporto aereo delle Parti Contraenti godranno di eque e pari possibilità nell'esercizio delle rotte che collegano i loro rispettivi territori, secondo l'Accordo ed il presente Allegato.
SEZIONE VI
Nella gestione dei servizi a lungo percorso (trunk services) sulle rotte indicate nel presente Allegato, le imprese di trasporto aereo di ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti terranno in considerazione gli interessi delle impreso dell'altra Parte Contraente, allo scopo di non influire indebitamente sui servizi che queste offrono sulle stesse rotte o su una parte di esse.

3742

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

SECTION VII

Provision of adequate capacity.
Right to embark, etc.

The services provided by a designated air carrier under the present Agreement and Annex shall retain as their primary objective the provision of capacity adequate to the traffic demands between the country of which such air carrier is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic.
The right to embark or disembark on such services international traffic destined for and coming from third countries at a point or points on the routes specified in the present Annex shall be applied in accordance with the general principles of orderly development to which both contracting parties subscribe and shall be subject to the general principle that capacity should be related :
(a) to traffic requirements between the country of origin and the countries of destination ;
(b) to the requirements of through airline operations (trunk services) ; and
(c) to the traffic requirements of the area through which the airline passes after taking account of local and regional services.

Ante, p. 3740.

SECTION VIII .
In so far as the air carrier or carriers of one contracting party may be temporarily prevented through difficulties arising from the War from taking immediate advantage of the opportunity referred to in Section V above, the situation shall be reviewed between the contracting parties with the object of facilitating the necessary development, as soon as the air carrier or carriers of the first contracting party is or are in a position increasingly to make their proper contribution to the service.

SECTION IX

Consultation respecting observance of
principles.

It is the intention of both contracting parties that there should be regular and frequent consultation between their respective aeronautical authorities and that there should thereby be close collaboration in the observance of the principles and the implementation of the provisions outlined in the present Agreement and Annex.

SECTION X

DeterminationTof rates.
Approval.

(A) The determination of rates in accordance with the following paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels , due regard being paid to all relevant factors, such as cost of operation, reasonable profit, and the rates charged by any other carriers, as well as the characteristics of each service.
(B) The rates to be charged by the air carriers of either contracting party between points in the territory of the United States and points in Italianterritory referred to in the attached Schedules shall, consistent with the provisions of the present Agreement and its Annex, be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the contracting parties, who shall act in accordance with their obligations under the present Annex, within the limits of their legal powers.

62 STAT. ] ITALY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- FEB. 6, 1948
SEZIONE VII
I servizi offerti da una impresa, designata secondo l'Accordo e il presente Allogato, avranno per obiettivo principale di offrire una capacità corrispondente : lle domande di traffico tra il Paese del quale detta impresa possiede la nazionalità od il Paese di ultima destinazione del traffico .
Il diritto di sbarcare o di imbarcare su tali servizi, in uno o più punti delle rotte specificate nel presente Allegato, traffico internazionale destinato a terzi territori o da essi proveniente, sarà applicato in conformità con i principî generali di razionale sviluppo ai quali ambo le parti sottoscrivono e sarà soggetto al principio generale che la capacità debba essere posta in relazione :
a) alle esigenze di traffico tra il Paese di origine e i Paesi di destinazione, b) alle esigenze di esercizio delle linee a lungo percorso (trunk services) , e c) alle esigenze di traffico della zona attraversata dalla linea aerea, tenuto conto dei servizi locali e regionali.
SEZIONE VIII
Nel caso in cui le imprese di trasporto aerco di una Parte Contracnte siano temporaneamente impedite, per difficoltà sorgenti dallo stato di guerra, di usufruire immediatamente delle possibilità di cui alla Sezione V del presente Allegato, la situazione sarà nuovamente esaminata dalle due Parti Contraenti, allo scopo di facilitare il necessario sviluppo dei servizi acrei della prima Parte Contraente, non appena le imprese di quest'ultima saranno in grado di contribuire più intensamente al servizio.
SEZIONE IX
E' intendimento delle due Parti Contraenti che abbiano luogo regolari e frequenti consultazioni tra le rispettive autorità aeronautiche e che vi sia con ciò tra esse una stretta collaborazione nell'osservanza dei principî e nell'applizione delle prescrizioni contenute nell'Accordo e nel presente Allegato.
SEZIONE X
A) La determinazione delle tariffe, in conformità dei paragrafi seguenti, sarà fatta entro limiti ragionevoli , tenendo conto di tutti i fattori rilevanti, quali il costo di esercizio , l'equo guadagno , le tariffe praticate da qualsiasi altra impresa, come pure le caratteristiche di ciascun servizio.
B) Le tariffe che saranno praticate dalle imprese di trasporto aereo di ciascuna delle Parti tra gli scali del territorio degli Stati Uniti e gli scali del territorio italiano, specificate negli elenchi allegati , sono subordinate, in conformità delle disposizioni dell'Accordo e del presente Allegato, all'autorizzazione delle autorità aeronautiche delle Parti Contraenti che agiranno, conformemente agli obblighi di cui al presente Allegato, entro i limiti dei loro poteri legali.

3743

3744

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Filing of proposed rate.

(C) Any rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of either contracting party shall be filed with the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties at least thirty (30 ) days before the proposed date of introduction ; provided that this period of thirty (30) days may be reduced in particular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties.

I. A. T. A.

(D) The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having approved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air Transport Association (hereinafter called I. A. T. A. ) , for a period of one year beginning in February 1947 , any rate agreements concluded through this machinery during this period and involving United States air carriers will be subject to approval of the Board. Rate agreements concluded through this machinery may also be required to be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of Italy pursuant to the principles enunciated in paragraph (B) above.

(E) The contracting parties agree that the procedure described in paragraphs (F), ( G) and (H) of this Section shall apply :
1. If during the period of the Civil Aeronautics Board's approval of the I. A. T. A. traffic conference machinery, either any specific rate agreement is not approved, within a reasonable time by either contracting party, or a conference of I. A. T. A. is unable to agree on a rate , or

Prevention ofunfair or uneconomic rates.

2. If at any time no I. A. T. A. machinery is applicable, or 3. If either contracting party at any time withdraws or fails to renew its approval of that part of the I. A. T. A. traffic conference machinery relevant to this Section.
(F) In the event that power is conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States to fix fair and economic rates for the transport

of persons and property by air on international services and to suspend proposed

rates in a manner comparable to that in which the Civil Aeronautics Board at

present is empowered to act with respect to such rates for the transport of persons and property by air within the United States, each of the contracting parties shall thereafter exercise its authority in such manner as to prevent any rate or

rates proposed by one of its carriers for services from the territory of onecontract-

ing party to a point or points in the territory of the other contracting party from becoming effective, if in the judgment of the aeronautical authorities

Notice of dissatisaction with proposed new rate.

of the contracting party whose air carrier or carriers is or are proposing such rate, that rate is unfair or uneconomic. If one of the contracting parties on receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph ( C) above is dissatisfied with the rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of the other contracting

party, it shall so notify the other contracting party prior to the expiry of the first fifteen (15) of the thirty (30) days referred to, and the contracting parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.

In the event that such agreement is reached, each contracting party will exercise its best efforts to put such rate into effect as regards its air carrier or air carriers.

62 STAT. ] ITALY- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-FEB. 6, 1948
C) Qualunque tariffa proposta dalle imprese di trasporto aereo di una delle Parti Contraenti sara notificata alle autorità aeronautiche di ambo le Parti
Contraenti almeno trenta (30) giorni prima della data proposta per l'entrata in vigore ; tuttavia, detto periodo di trenta (30) giorni potrà essere ridotto in casi particolari, previo accordo delle autorità aeronautiche di ambo le Parti Contraenti.
D) Poichè il K« Civil Aeronautics Board » degli Stati Uniti ha approvato per il periodo di un anno a decorrere dal febbraio 1947 la procedura delle conferenze del traffico della Associazione Internazionale dei Trasporti Aerei ( qui successivamente indicata con la sigla I. A. T. A.) , tutti gli accordi in materia di tariffe concluse secondo questa procedura durante tale periodo e interessanti le imprese degli Stati Uniti d'America saranno sottoposti all'approvazione del « Civil Aeronautics Board ». Gli accordi sulle tariffe conclusi secondo la detta procedura possono pure essere soggetti all'approvazione delle autorità aeronautiche dell'Italia conformemente ai principî enunciati nel precedente paragrafo B).
E) Le Parti Contraenti convengono che la procedura di cui ai paragrafi F), G) e H) di questa Sezione sarà applicata :
1) quando, durante il periodo stabilito per l'approvazione da parte del « Civil Aeronautics Board » della procedura delle conferenze del traffico della I. A. T. A. , non sia stato approvato alcun accordo specifico in materia di tariffe entro un limite di tempo ragionevole da ambo le Parti Contraenti , oppure quando una conferenza della I. A. T. A. non sia stata in grado di determinare una tariffa , o
2) quando in nessun modo sia applicabile la procedura della I. A. T. A., o 3) quando una delle Parti Contraenti in qualunque momento ritiri la sua approvazione o si astenga dal rinnovarla per quella parte della procedura delle conferenze del traffico della I. A. T. A. che si riferisce a questa sezione. F) Nel caso in cui alle autorità aeronautiche degli Stati Uniti siano conferiti poteri legali di fissare tariffe eque ed economiche per il trasporto aereo in servizio internazionale di persone e di cose e di sospendere le tariffe proposte, analogamente a quanto il « Civil Aeronautics Board » può attualmente disporre per le tariffe relative al trasporto aereo di persone e di cose nell'interno degli Stati Uniti , ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti eserciterà successivamente la propria autorità in modo da impedire che le tariffe proposte da una delle proprie imprese di trasporto aereo per i servizi dal territorio di una Parte Contraente ad uno o più scali nel territorio dell'altra Parte Contraente, divengano effettive, qualora, a giudizio delle autorità aeronautiche della Parte Contraente le cui imprese propongono le tariffe stesse, le tariffe in questione non siano considerate eque ed economiche. Se una delle Parti Contraenti, nel ricevere la notifica di cui al precedente paragrafo C) , non è soddisfatta della tariffa proposta dalle imprese dell'altra Parte Contraente, essa ne darà notifica all'altra Parte Contraente prima che siano scaduti i primi quindici (15) giorni del periodo sopra previsto di trenta (30) giorni, e le Parti Contraenti si adopereranno di raggiungere l'accordo sulla tariffa conveniente.
Nel caso in cui un accordo sia raggiunto, ciascuna delle due Parti Contraenti farà del suo meglio affinchè tale tariffa sia applicata dalle proprie imprese di trasporto aereo.

3745

3746

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Provisional rate pending settlement of dispute.

If agreement has not been reached at the end of the thirty (30) day period referred to in paragraph ( C) above, the proposed rate may, unless the aeronautical authorities of the country of the air carrier concerned see fit to suspend its application, go into effect provisionally pending the settlement of any dispute in accordance with the procedure outlined in paragraph (H) below,

Advisory report.

(G) Prior to the time when such power may be conferred by law upon the aeronautical authorities of the United States, if one of the contracting parties. is dissatisfied with any rate proposed by the air carrier or carriers of either contracting party for services from the territory of one contracting party to a point or points in the territory of the other contracting party , it shall so notify the other prior to the expiry of the first fifteen (15) of the thirty (30) day period referred to in paragraph ( C) above, and the contracting parties shall endeavor to reach agreement on the appropriate rate.
In the event that such agreement is reached, each contracting party will use its best efforts to cause such agreed rate to be put into effect by its air carrier or carriers.
It is recognized that if no such agreement can be reached prior to the expiry of such thirty (30 ) days, the contracting party raising the objection to the rate may take such steps as it may consider necessary to prevent the inauguration or continuation of the service in question at the rate complained of,
(H) When in any case under paragraph (F) and (G) above the aeronautical authorities of the two contracting parties cannot agree within a reasonable time upon the appropriate rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one contracting party concerning the proposed rate or an existing rate of the air carrier or carriers of the other contracting party, upon the request of either, both contracting parties shall submit the question to the International Civil Aviation Organization for an advisory report, and each party will use its best efforts under the powers available to it to put into effect the opinion expressed in such report.

62 STAT. ] ITALY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- FEB. 6, 1948
Ove non sia stato raggiunto l'accordo nel termine dei trenta (30 ) giorni di cui al precedente paragrafo C) , la tariffa proposta può entrare in vigore provvisoriamente, in attesa cho la divergenza sia risolta in conformità della procedura prevista dal successivo paragrafo H), a meno che le autorità aeronautiche della Parte Contraente alla quale appartiene l'impresa di trasporto aereo non ritengano conveniente sospendere l'applicazione della tariffa stessa.
G) Se, prima che i suddetti poteri siano conferiti per legge alle autorità aeronautiche degli Stati Uniti , una delle Parti Contraenti non sia soddisfatta delle tariffe proposte dalle imprese dell'una o dell'altra Parte Contraente per i servizi che collegano il territorio di una delle Parti Contraenti con il territorio dell'altra Parte Contraente, essa ne darà notifica all'altra Parte anteriormente alla scadenza dei primi quindici (15) giorni del periodo di trenta (30) giorni previsto dal precedente paragrafo C), e le Parti Contraenti si adopereranno per raggiungere l'accordo sulla tariffa conveniente.
Nel caso che tale accordo sia raggiunto, ciascuna delle Parti Contraenti farà del suo meglio affinchè le tariffe concordate siano adottate dalle proprie imprese di trasporto acreo.
Resta inteso che, ove un tale accordo non possa essere raggiunto prima che termini il periodo di trenta (30) giorni, la Parte Contraente che ha sollevato obiezione sulle tariffe, può prendere le misuro che essa riticno necessario per impedire che il servizio in questione abbia inizio o continui l'applicazione delle tariffe contestate.
H) Qualora, nei casi previsti dai precedenti paragrafi F) e G) , le autorità aeronautiche delle due Parti Contraenti non raggiungano l'accordo sulla tariffa più conveniente, entro un ragionevole periodo di tempo dall'inizio della consultazione promossa per il ricorso di una delle Parti Contraenti sulla tariffa proposta o già applicata dalle imprese di trasporto aereo dell'altra Parte Contracnte, la questione, su richiesta dell'una o dell'altra Parte Contraente, sarà portata davanti l'O. A. C. I. per un parere consultivo, e ognuna delle Parti Contracnti farà del suo meglio, nei limiti dei poteri di cui dispone, per uniformarsi al parere espresso dall'O. A. C. I.

3747

3748

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. SCHEDULE

1. An airline or airlines designated by the Government of the United States shall be entitled to operate air services on each of the air routes indicated via intermediate points, in both directions, and to make scheduled landings in Italy at the points specified in this paragraph :
The United States of America to MILAN, ROME, NAPLES and beyond. 2. An airline or airlines designated by the Government of Italy shall be entitled to operate air services on a route or routes andto make scheduled landings in the United States at a point or points to be agreed to between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Italy at such time as the Government of Italy resolves to commence operations. 3. Points on any of the specified routes may at the option of the designated airline or airlines be omitted on any or all flights.
PROTOCOL

Rights of U. 8. air carriers .

At the time of signing the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Italy, the two contracting parties have further agreed as follows :

Ante, pp. 3730, 3740,

The airports on Italian territory, whose construction, improvement or installations have been financed in whole or part by the Government of the United States and which will be open to international civil traffic, will be open to the duly authorized air carriers of the United States who will enjoy thereon, on a non-discriminatory basis, right of transit and non-traffic stop. They will likewise enjoy there the commercial rights which may be granted them by the present Agreement and the Annex thereto or any other agreement now in force or later concluded.

Rome, February 6th, 1948.

For the Government of the United States
of America

For the Italian Government

noArms Drum

Sforza

62 STAT.1 ITALY-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- FEB. 6, 1948 TABELLA

1..Le imprese di trasporto aereo designate dal Governo degli Stati Uniti hanno il diritto di esercire servizi aerei su ciascuna delle rotte aeree indicate, con scali intermedi, in ambedue le direzioni , e di fare in Italia prestabiliti atterraggi negli scali specificati qui di seguito :
Stati Uniti d'America a MILANO, ROMA, NAPOLI e oltre.
2. Le imprese di trasporto acreo designate dal Governo Italiano hanno il diritto di esercire servizi aerei sulla rotta o sulle rotte concordate fra il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America ed il Governo Italiano e di fare negli Stati Uniti prestabiliti atterraggi negli scali da concordare fra i due Governi allorquando il Governo Italiano deciderà di dare inizio a tali servizi aerei.
3. Gli scali su ciascuna delle rotte specificate possono, a scelta delle imprese di trasporto aereo designate, essere omessi per uno o per tutti i voli.
PROTOCOLLO

Al momento della firma dell'Accordo per i Trasporti Aerei fra il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America ed il Governo d'Italia, le due Parti Contraenti hanno inoltre concordato quanto segue :
Gli aeroporti in territorio Italiano aperti al traffico civile internazionale, dei quali la costruzione, i miglioramenti e le installazioni sono state finanziati in tutto o in parte dal Governo degli Stati Uniti, saranno aperti agli aeromobili degli Stati Uniti debitamente autorizzati, che potranno inoltre usufruire, su una base non discriminatoria, dei diritti di transito e di scalo tecnico. Ugualmente, gli stessi aeromobili potranno usufruire inoltre sui predetti aeroporti italiani dei diritti commerciali contemplati dal presente Accordo e dal suo Allegato , o da qualsiasi altro accordo attualmente in vigore o che sarà da concludersi in futuro fra le due Parti Contraenti.
Roma, 6 febbraio 1948.

Per il Governo Italiano

Per il Governo degli Stati Uniti d'America

3749

Priza

Jamer els

3750

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

November 17, and December 22, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1903]

Agreement between the United States of America and Luxembourg respecting economic cooperation under Public Law 472 , 80th Congress , amending the agreement of July 3, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes dated at Luxembourg November 17 and December 22, 1948; entered into force December 22, 1948.

The American Legation to the Luxembourg Ministry of Foreign Affairs

No. 45

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Legation of the United States of America presents its compli-

ments to the Grand Ducal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to state that its Government has noticed the existence of a

clerical error in the text of the Economic Cooperation Agreement

62 Stat. , Pt . 2 , p. 2451.

between the United States of America and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
The error concerns the proviso at the end of subparagraph (b) ,

P.62247.1S.tat . , Pt . 2 , paragraph 2 , Article XII of the Agreement and is of such a nature as to make it appear that the proviso modifies only subparagraph (b) .

As interpreted by the Government of the United States of America,

the proviso in question applies to termination of the Agreement under

both subparagraphs (a ) and (b) of paragraph 2 , Article XII , as was

intended , and not only to termination under subparagraph (b) .

The Legation would appreciate a similar note from the Ministry

indicating a like interpretation on the part of the Government of

Luxembourg.

G. L. W. JR.

Luxembourg, November 17, 1948

The Luxembourg Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Legation
MINISTÈRE DES AFFAIRES ETRANGÈRES
79/210.
Le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères présente ses compliments à la Légation des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et a l'honneur de lui marquer son accord avec la rectification suggérée dans l'obligeante note No. 45 du 17 novembre 1948 .
En conséquence , l'article XII , paragraphe 2 de l'accord , signé le 3 juillet 1948 entre les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et du Luxembourg, aura la forme suivante:

Nov. 17, 1948 62 STAT. ] LUXEMBOURG- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- Dec. 22, 1948

3751

1·

"Article XII

2. If, during the life of this Agreement, either Government shoul.d consider there has been a fundamental change in the basic assumptions underlying this Agreement, it shall so notify the other Government in
writing and the two Governments will thereupon consult with a view to agreeing upon the amendment, modification or termination of this Agreement . If, after three months from such notification the two
Governments have not agreed upon the action to be taken in the circumstances, either Government may give notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate this Agreement. Then, subject to the
62 Stat . , Pt. 2, provisions of paragr. 3 of this Article, this Agreement shall terminate p. 2472. either:

(a) Six months after the date of such notice of intention to terminate, or

(b) After such shorter period as may be agreed to be sufficient to

ensure that the obligations of the Government of Luxembourg are

performed in respect of any assistance which may continue to be

furnished by the Government of the United States of America

after the date of such notice;

provided, however, that Article V and paragraph 3 of Article VII shall remain in effect until two years after the date of such notice of intention to terminate, but not later than June 30 , 1953."

62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , pp. 2462, 2465.

1.
2. Si, pendant la durée de l'Accord , l'un des Gouvernements considère qu'il y a eu un changement fondamental dans les circonstances se trouvant à l'origine de cet Accord , il le notifiera par écrit à l'autre Gouvernement. Les deux Gouvernements se consulteront alors en vue de convenir de la modification, de la transformation et de la terminaison de l'Accord . Si , après un délai de trois mois à dater de cette notification, les deux Gouvernements n'ont pas convenu de l'action à prendre dans ces circonstances, chaque Gouvernement pourra notifier par écrit à l'autre son intention de mettre fin à l'Accord . Dans ce cas, sous réserve des dispositions du paragraphe 3 du présent Article, cet Accord prendra fin: (a) Six mois après la notification de l'intention d'y mettre fin, ou (b) Après telle période plus courte à convenir, suffisante néanmoins
pour assurer que les obligations du Gouvernement du Luxembourg sont exécutées à l'égard de toute aide que le Gouvernement américain pourrait continuer à lui apporter après la date de cette notification ;
étant entendu toutefois que l'Article V et le paragraphe 3 de l'Article VII resteront en vigueur deux ans après la date de la

3752

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT. notification de l'intention de mettre fin à l'Accord , mais en aucun cas après le 30 juin 1953."
Le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères s'empresse d'informer la Légation des Etats-Unis qu'il a pris les mesures nécessaires pour que dans les textes officiels il soit tenu compte de cette rectification.
LuxembourLg, le 22 décembre 1948. UX ER BO UN
DE LUXE G

CR AN
-D D UC

A la
Légation des Etats- Unis d'Amérique à Luxembourg

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

79/210.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Legation of the United States of America and has the honor to inform

Ante, p. 3750.

it of its agreement to the correction suggested in its courteous note No. 45 of November 17 , 1948 .

Consequently, Article XII , paragraph 2, of the Agreement signed

p.622471S.tat . , Pt . 2 , on July 3 , 1948 , between the Governments of the United States of America and Luxembourg will have the following form :

[For the English and French language texts of Article XII, paragraph 2 , see p . 3751. ]

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs hastens to inform the Legation of the United States that it has taken the necessary steps in order that this correction be taken into account in the official texts.
Luxembourg, December 22, 1948.

Legation of the United States of America Luxembourg

[SEAL OF GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG, MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS)

62 STAT. ] DENMARK- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- NOV. 4, 18, 1948

3753

Agreement between the United States of America and Denmark respecting November 4, 18, 1948 [T. I. A. 8. 1904]
economic cooperation under Public Law 472, 80th Congress, amending
the agreement of June 29, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed
at Copenhagen November 4 and 18, 1948; entered into force November 18, 1948.

The Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

UDENRIGSMINISTERIET.

Ø. P. VI. Journal Nr. 73.D.139.

COPENHAGEN, November 4 , 1948.

MONSIEUR l'AMBASSADEUR,

With reference to the Economic Cooperation Agreement signed in Copenhagen on June 29th , 1948 , I have the honour to inform you that after consultation with Mr. Dahl , former Commercial Attaché to the American Embassy in Copenhagen, the following typographical errors in the Danish text have been corrected :

62 Stat . , p. 2199.

Pt. 2,

Page 4, Art . II § 1 , line 4 : delete Comma after "Regering " , Page 18, Art . XII , § 1 , line 5 : change "I Henhold til " to "med de Forbehold, som følger af Bestemmelserne i" , Page 18 , penultimate line : "maate" should read "maatte", Page 22 , line 9 : Insert "af" after "bevilget" .
I hope you will have no objections to the above corrections and will be good enough to notify me of your agreement .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, the assurance of my high consideration .
GUSTAV RASMUSSEN

His Excellency Ambassador JOSIAH MARVEL, Jr. The Embassy of the United States of America, Copenhagen.

The American Ambassador to the Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 347 EXCELLENCY:

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Copenhagen, November 18, 1948.

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's

Note of November 4 , 1948 , which reads as follows :

"With reference to the Economic Cooperation Agreement signed in Copenhagen on June 29th, 1948, I have the honour to inform you that after consultation with Mr. Dahl, former Commercia

62 Stat. , Pt. 2, p.2199.

3754

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Attache to the American Embassy in Copenhagen, the following typographical errors in the Danish text have been corrected :
Page 4 , Art . II § 1 , line 4 : delete Comma after "Regering" , Page 18 , Art. XII , § 1 , line 5 : change "I Henhold til" to "med de Forbehold , som følger af Bestemmelserne i" , Page 18 , penultimate line: "maate" should read " maatte", Page 22, line 9 : Insert "af" after "bevilget".
"I hope you will have no objections to the above corrections and will be good enough to notify me of your agreement.
"I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, the assurance of my high consideration ."
I have pleasure in informing Your Excellency that my Government agrees that the Danish text of the Agreement will be read with these corrections incorporated .
Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JOSIAH MARVEL, Jr. His Excellency
GUSTAV RASMUSSEN, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Copenhagen.

62 STAT. ] CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 10, 1947

3755

Agreement and accompanying exchanges of notes between the United States of America and Chile respecting air transport services. Signed at Santiago May 10, 1947 ; entered into force December 30, 1948.
AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF CHILE

May 10, 1947 IT. I. A. S. 1905]

The President of the United States of America and the President of
the Republic of Chile , having in mind : The increasing importance and development which have evolved in
commercial air navigation as well as the consideration that air transport has special characteristics and affords quick and certain communication between peoples ; that it is the desire of both governments to organize international air services in orderly fashion , keeping in view the development of international cooperation in the field of air transportation ; that both governments aspire to arrive at a general multilateral agreement which will govern all nations in the field of commercial aviation ; that until such general agreement to which both governments have become parties is obtained , the two governments are disposed to draw up immediately a bilateral agreement on civil air transport .
For this purpose they have designated their Plenipotentiaries , to wit :

Plenipotentiaries,

The President of the United States of America: His Excellency Mr. Claude G. Bowers, Ambassador of the United States of America .
The President of the Republic of Chile: His Excellency Mr. Raul Juliet, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Who, after exhibiting their full powers and finding them to be in good and proper form , agree upon the following provisions :

ARTICLE I
Each of the contracting parties grants to the other contracting party the rights which are specified in the attached annexes for the purpose of establishing the routes and international commercial air services described in the said annexes . These services may be inaugurated immediately or at a later date, at the option of the contracting party to whom these rights are granted .

Rights. Post, pp. 3758, 3761.

ARTICLE II
Each of the air services described in the annexes may be placed in Inauguration of air
operation as soon as the contracting party to whom the right has been services.
granted by Article I to designate one or more airlines of its nationality for the route in question has authorized an airline to serve such route. Said contracting party will be bound to give the appropriate operating

3756

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

permission to the airline or airlines concerned , subject to the terms of Article VI.
The designated company or companies may be required by the contracting party which grants the right to fulfill the conditions prescribed in the laws and regulations which normally govern the authorization of international air transport service before being permitted to engage in the operations contemplated by this agreement. It is understood , furthermore , that in areas of hostilities or of military occupation, or in areas affected thereby, the inauguration of such services will be subject to the approval of the appropriate military authorities.

Charges.

ARTICLE III
In order to prevent discriminatory practices and to assure equality of treatment , both contracting parties agree that :

(a) Each of the contracting parties may impose or permit to be imposed just and reasonable charges for the use of public airports and other facilities under its control. Each of the contracting parties agrees, however, that these charges shall not be higher than would be paid for the use of such airports and facilities by its national aircraft engaged in similar international services.
(b) The fuel, lubricating oils, and spare parts brought into the territory of one of the contracting parties by the other contracting party or its nationals for the exclusive use of the aircraft of the airlines of said contracting party shall receive, with respect to customs duties, inspection fees or other national duties or charges by the contracting party in whose territory they have entered , the same treatment as that applicable to the national airlines engaged in international transport and to the airlines of the most-favored-nation .
(c) The fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts , regular equipment, and aircraft stores retained on board civil aircraft of the airlines of one contracting party authorized to operate the routes and services described in the annexes shall be, upon arriving in or leaving the territory of the other contracting party, exempt from customs, inspection fees, or similar duties or charges, even though such supplies be used or consumed by such aircraft on flights in that territory.

ARTICLE IV

Certificates of airworthiness, etc.
Post, pp. 3758, 3761.

Certificates of airworthiness, certificates of competency and licenses issued or rendered valid by one contracting party and still in force shall be recognized as valid by the other contracting party for the purpose of operating the routes and services described in the Annexes.

Each contracting party reserves the right, however, to refuse to recog-

nize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to its own nationals by another State.

ARTICLE V

Laws and regulaons.

(a) The laws and regulations of one contracting party relating to the admission to or to departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory , shall be applied to the aircraft of

62 STAT.1 CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 10, 1947

3757

the designated airlines of the other contracting party upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of the first party .
(b) The laws and regulations of one contracting party as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew, or cargo of aircraft , such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration, passports , customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers , crew or cargo of the airlines designated by the other contracting party upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of the first party.

ARTICLE VI Withholding or rev-
Each contracting party reserves the right to withhold or revoke ocation of certificate or permit.
the certificate or permit of an airline designated by the other contracting party: (a) in the event it is not satisfied that substantial
ownership and effective control of such airlines are vested in nationals
of the other contracting party ; (b) or when the airline designated
by the other contracting party fails to comply with the laws and regula-
tions of the contracting party over whose territory it operates , in the manner established in Article V of this agreement ; or ( c) when said
line otherwise fails to comply with the conditions under which the
rights are granted in accordance with this agreement and its annexes.

ARTICLE VII
This agreement and all contracts connected therewith will be registered with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) .

Registration.

ARTICLE VIII

Existing rights and privileges relating to air transport services which may have been granted previously by either of the contracting parties to an airline of the other contracting party shall continue in force according to their terms and subject to the stipulations of this agreement.
ARTICLE IX
Notice of intention This agreement or any of the rights for air transport services granted to terminate agreethereunder may be terminated by either contracting party upon giving ment. one year's prior notice to the other contracting party. If a general multilateral aviation convention, accepted by both contracting parties, enters into effect , this agreement shall be modified in such a way so that its provisions will conform to those of the convention under reference.

ARTICLE X

Modification o In the event either of the contracting parties considers it desirable routes or condition. to modify the routes or conditions set forth in this agreement, it may

request consultation between the competent authorities of both con-

tracting parties , such consultation to begin within a period of sixty (60) days from the date of the request . When these authorities

mutually agree on new or revised conditions affecting this agreement , their recommendations regarding the matter with respect to Annex B will enter into effect after having been confirmed by an exchange of

Post, p. 3761.

3758

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

diplomatic notes, and their recommendations with respect to the balance of the agreement will enter into effect once they have been

approved in conformity with the constitutional laws of the respective contracting party.

ARTICLE XI

Disputes.

Any dispute between the contracting parties relative to the interpretation or application of this agreement, or its annexes, which cannot be settled through consultation shall be submitted for an advisory report to the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization, unless the contracting parties agree to submit the dispute for an arbitral decision by the same organization , or to some other organization designated by common agreement between the same contracting parties , these alternatives being subject to the constitutional provisions governing each country . The executive authorities of each of the contracting parties will use their best efforts under the powers available to them to put into effect the opinion expressed in any such report.

ARTICLE XII

Entry into force.

This agreement will be approved by each contracting party in accordance with its own law and shall enter into force upon an ex-

change of the respective instruments of the two contracting parties indicating such approval . [' ] Both contracting parties shall undertake to make effective the provisions of this agreement, within their respective administrative powers , from the date on which it is signed.

Authentic lan- In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, being duly guages.
authorized by their respective governments , have signed the present
agreement in duplicate in the English and Spanish languages, each of
which shall be of equal authenticity.

Done at Santiago this 10th day of May, 1947 .

For the Government of the United States of America : CLAUDE G BOWERS

For the Government of the Republic of Chile : R. JULIET

[SEAL] [ SEAL ]

ANNEX "A"

The high contracting parties agree upon the following:

Equal opportunity for operation.
Post, p. 3761 .

A) The airlines of the two contracting parties operating on the routes described in Annex "B" of this agreement shall enjoy fair and equal opportunity for the operation of services on the said route.

1 Entered into force Dec. 30, 1948, instruments of approval of the agreement having been exchanged at Santiago on that date.

62 STAT. ] CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 10, 1947

3759

B) The air transport capacity offered by the airlines of both coun-

tries should be closely related to traffic requirements.

C) In the operation of common sections of trunk routes, established

in Annex "B" of this agreement, the airlines of the contracting parties

should take into account their reciprocal interests so as not to affect

unduly their respective services .
Provision of adeD ) The services provided by an airline designated under this agree- quate capacity.

ment and its annexes shall retain as their primary objective the pro-

vision of capacity adequate to the traffic demand between the country

(or points under its jurisdiction ) of which such airline is a national and the country of ultimate destination of the traffic.
E) The right to embark and to disembark at points under the

Right to embark, etc.

jurisdiction of the other country passengers , cargo , and mail destined

for or coming from third countries shall be applied in accordance

with the general principles of orderly development. Both govern-

ments agree that traffic capacity shall be related to :

1 ) The traffic requirements between the country of origin (or points

under its jurisdiction) and the countries of destination ;

2) The requirements of through airline operation ; and

3) The traffic requirements of the zone through which the airline

passes, taking previously into account the requirements of local or

regional services . F) The appropriate aeronautical authorities of each of the con-
tracting parties may consult from time to time, or at the request of

Consultation respecting application of
measures .

one of the parties, to determine the extent to which the principles

set forth in this Annex are being followed by the airlines designated by

the contracting parties . When these authorities agree on further

measures necessary to give these principles practical application , the

executive authorities of each of the contracting parties will use their

best efforts under the powers available to them to put such measures into effect.
G) Each contracting party may, subject to the provisions of this

Designation of routes, airports, te

agreement, designate the routes to be followed within its territory by the airline or airlines of the other contracting party. The airline or

airlines of either contracting party shall, if the regulations of the other

contracting party so require, land at an airport designated by that contracting party for the purpose of customs and other examinations.

On departure from the territory of a contracting party, such aircraft

shall , if that party so requires, depart from a similarly designated customs airport.
H) a. The determination of rates in accordance with the following

Determination of rates.

paragraphs shall be made at reasonable levels , due regard being paid

to all relevant factors , such as cost of operation , reasonable profit,

and the rates charged by any other airline, as well as the charac-

teristics of each service (such as speed and comfort) .

b. The rates to be charged by the airlines of either contracting

party between points in the territory of the United States and points in Chilean territory on the routes described in Annex "B" shall, consistent with the provisions of the present Agreement and its An-

Post, p. 3761.

3760

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

nexes , be subject to the prior approval of the aeronautical authorities.

of the contracting parties, who shall act in accordance with their

obligations under the present Annex, within the limits of their legal

powers .

Filing of proposed

rate .

c. Any rate proposed by the airline or airlines of either contract-

Post, p. 3761.

ing party to be in effect on the routes described in Annex "B" shall be

filed with the aeronautical authorities of both contracting parties at

least thirty (30) days before the proposed date of introduction; provided that this period of thirty (30) days may be reduced in par-

ticular cases if so agreed by the aeronautical authorities of both con-

Approval of rate agreements.

tracting parties. d . The Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States having
approved the traffic conference machinery of the International Air

Transport Association , for a period of one year beginning in February

1947 , any rate agreements concluded through this machinery during this period and involving United States air carriers will be subject to

approval of the Board . Rate agreements concluded through this

machinery may also be required to be subject to the approval of the aeronautical authorities of the Republic of Chile pursuant to the

principles enunciated in paragraph (b) above. e. When the aeronautical authorities of the two contracting

parties cannot agree within a reasonable time upon the appropriate

rate after consultation initiated by the complaint of one contracting

Ante, p. 3758. Post, p. 3761 .

party concerning the rate, they shall follow the procedure prescribed in Article XI of the Agreement .
I) On each of the routes described in Annex "B", the authorized

airline or airlines may operate non-stop flights between any of the

points on such route omitting stops at one or more of the other points

Ante, p . 3757. Change of gauge.

on such route, without prejudice to the principles established in Article X of this Agreement.
J) a. Every change of gauge justifiable for reasons of economy

of operation , shall be permitted on any stop of the established routes.

b. Nevertheless , no change of gauge may be made in the territory of one or the other contracting parties when it modifies the charac-

teristics of the operation of a through airline service or if it is incom-

patible with the principles enunciated in the present Agreement and its Annexes .

Changes in routes.

K. Changes made by either contracting party in the routes described in Annex "B" except those which change the points served by

these airlines in the territory of the other contracting party, shall not be considered as modifications of the Annex . The aeronautical

authorities of either contracting party may therefore proceed uni-

laterally to make such changes , provided , however, that notice of any

change is given without delay to the aeronautical authorities of the other contracting party.
If such other aeronautical authorities find that, having regard to the principles set forth in this Annex, interests of the airline or airlines

of their nationality are prejudiced by the carriage by the airline or airlines of the first contracting party of traffic between the territory

62 STAT. ] CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- MAY 10, 1947
of the second contracting party and the new point in the territory of the third country, the authorities of the two contracting parties shall consult with a view to arriving at a satisfactory agreement.
CLAUDE G BOWERS R. JULIET

3761

ANNEX "B"
U.S. rights of transA) Airlines of the United States of America, authorized under the it in Chile. present Agreement, are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic
stop in the territory of the Republic of Chile, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo , and mail on the following routes via intermediate points in both directions:
B) The United States and/or the Canal Zone to Arica , Antofagasta, and to Santiago and beyond Chile (a) from Arica to points in Bolivia and beyond, (b) from Antofagasta to points in Argentina and beyond, and (c) from Santiago to points in Argentina and beyond .
Chilean rights of C) Airlines of the Republic of Chile authorized under the present transit in U. S. Agreement are accorded rights of transit and non-traffic stop in the territory of the United States of America and points under its jurisdiction, as well as the right to pick up and discharge international traffic in passengers , cargo , and mail on the following routes via intermediate points in both directions : D) From Chile to Miami and/or New York and beyond the United States of America .
CLAUDE G BOWERS
R. JULIET

3762

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

CONVENIO SOBRE TRANSPORTE AEREO ENTRE EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA Y EL GOBIERNO DE CHILE
EL Presidente de los Estados Unidos de América y el Presidente de la República de Chile, considerando :
La creciente importancia y desarrollo que ha adquirido la aeronavegación comercial ;
Que este medio de transporte aéreo tiene características especiales y permite rápidas y estables comunicaciones entre los pueblos ;
Que es el deseo de ambos Gobiernos organizar ordenadamente los servicios aéreos internacionales , teniendo en vista el desarrollo de la cooperación internacional en el campo del transporte aéreo ;
Que ambos Gobiernos aspiran a llegar a un Convenio Multilateral General que rija a todas las naciones en materia de aviación comercial ;
Que mientras queda concertado este Acuerdo General del cual ambos Gobiernos se hayan hecho Parte, están conformes en celebrar desde luego un Convenio bilateral sobre transporte aéreo civil ;
PARA lo cual han designado a sus Plenipotenciarios , a saber: El Presidente de los Estados Unidos de América al Excelentísimo Señor Claude G. Bowers , Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América en Chile ; El Presidente de la República de Chile al Excelentísimo señor don Raúl Juliet Gómez , Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores ; Los cuales , después de exhibir sus plenos poderes y de encontrarlos en buena y debida forma , convienen en las siguientes disposiciones:
ARTICULO I
Cada una de las Partes Contratantes otorga a la otra los derechos que se especifican en los anexos adjuntos, con el objeto de establecer las rutas y servicios aéreos comerciales internacionales que en dichos anexos se indican . Estos servicios podrán inaugurarse inmediatamente o en una fecha ulterior , a opción de la Parte Contratante a la cual se otorgan estos derechos.
ARTICULO II
Cada uno de los servicios aéreos indicados en los anexos , podrá comenzar sus operaciones tan pronto como la Parte Contratante a la cual el artículo I otorga el derecho de designar una o más líneas aéreas de su nacionalidad para la ruta en cuestión, haya autorizado una línea aérea para servir dicha ruta . Dicha Parte Contratante estará obligada a otorgar a la línea o líneas aéreas interesadas el permiso de funcionamiento correspondiente sujeto a los términos del artículo VI.
Podrá exigirse a la Empresa o Empresas designadas por la Parte Contratante que otorgue los derechos , que cumplan las condiciones

62 STAT. ] CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 10, 1947
prescritas en las leyes y reglamentos que regulan normalmente las autorizaciones para servicios de transporte aéreo internacional , antes de ser autorizadas para iniciar las operaciones contempladas en este Convenio. Queda entendido , además, que en las zonas de hostilidades o de ocupación militar, o en las zonas afectadas por ellas , la inauguración de dichos servicios estará sometida a la aprobación de las Autoridades Militares correspondientes.
ARTICULO III
A fin de impedir prácticas discriminatorias y de asegurar la igualdad de tratamiento, ambas Partes Contratantes convienen en que:
a) Cada una de las Partes Contratantes podrá imponer, o permitirá que se impongan cargas justas y razonables por el uso de aeropuertos públicos y otras instalaciones bajo su control. Cada una de las Partes Contratantes conviene, sin embargo , en que todas estas cargas no serán mayores que las que paguen por el uso de tales aeropuertos e instalaciones sus aeronaves nacionales que se dediquen a servicios internacionales similares ;
b) El combustible, aceites lubricantes, y piezas de repuesto introducidos en el territorio de una de las Partes Contratantes por la otra Parte Contratante o sus nacionales, para el uso exclusivo de los aviones de las líneas aéreas de dicha Parte Contratante, recibirán, en lo que se refiere a derechos de aduana, derechos de inspección u otros impuestos nacionales o cargas por la Parte Contratante en cuyo territorio hayan entrado, el mismo tratamiento que el aplicado a las líneas aéreas nacionales de transporte internacional y a las líneas aéreas de la nación más favorecida .
c) El combustible, aceites lubricantes y piezas de repuesto ; equipo regular y materiales de aviación retenidos a bordo de las aeronaves civiles de las líneas aéreas de una de las Partes Contratantes, autorizadas para explotar las rutas y servicios a que se refieren los anexos, estarán a la llegada y salida del territorio de la otra Parte Contratante, exentos de derechos de aduana, derechos de inspección u otros gravámenes o derechos similares, aún cuando tales abastecimientos sean empleados o consumidos por dichas aeronaves durante el vuelo sobre dicho territorio .
ARTICULO IV
Los Certificados de Navegación Aérea , certificados de competencia y licencias expedidas o validados por una de las Partes Contratantes y aún vigentes , serán reconocidos como válidos por la otra Parte Contratante para los fines de mantener las rutas y servicios que se describen en los anexos . Cada una de las Partes Contratantes se reserva, sin embargo , el derecho de no reconocer , cuando se trate de vuelos sobre su propio territorio, los certificados de competencia y licencias otorgados a sus propios nacionales por otro Estado .
ARTICULO V
a) Las leyes y reglamentos de una de las Partes Contratantes relativos a la entrada o salida de su territorio de aeronaves dedicadas a
68706-52- PT. III- 73

3763

3764

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
la navegación aérea internacional o a la circulación y navegación de tales aeronaves , mientras se encuentran se encuentran dentro de su territorio , se aplicarán a las aeronaves de las líneas aéreas designadas por la otra Parte Contratante a la entrada , salida o mientras se encuentren dentro del territorio de la primera Parte.
b) Las leyes y reglamentos de una de las Partes Contratantes sobre entrada o salida de su territorio de pasajeros , tripulación o carga de aeronaves , tales como las disposiciones relativas a la entrada , despacho , inmigración , pasaportes, aduanas y cuarentena, serán cumplidas por o en representación de tales pasajeros, tripulación o carga de las líneas aéreas designadas por la otra Parte Contratante, tanto a la entrada como a la salida o mientras permanezcan en territorio de la primera Parte .
ARTICULO VI
Ambas Partes Contratantes se reservan el derecho de retener o revocar el certificado o permiso de una línea aérea designada por la otra Parte Contratante: a ) en el caso en que no esté conforme del hecho que la propiedad substancial y el control efectivo de tal línea aérea se encuentren en posesión de nacionales de la otra Parte Contratante ; b) o cuando la línea aérea designada por la otra Parte Contratante no cumpla con las leyes y reglamentos de la Parte Contratante sobre cuyo territorio opera , en la forma establecida en el artículo V de este Convenio, o c ) cuando de otra manera dicha línea no cumpla las condiciones bajo las cuales se han concedido los derechos, de
acuerdo con el presente Convenio y sus anexos .
ARTICULO VII
El presente Convenio y todos los contratos relacionados con él serán registrados en el Organismo de Aviación Civil Internacional (Oaci).
ARTICULO VIII
Los derechos y privilegios actualmente vigentes y relacionados con los servicios de transporte aéreo que puedan haber sido concedidos anteriormente por cualquiera de las dos Partes Contratantes a una línea aérea de la otra Parte Contratante, continuarán en vigencia según sus términos y sujetos a las estipulaciones de este acuerdo.
ARTICULO IX
Este Convenio o cualquiera de los derechos otorgados por él a los servicios de transporte aéreo , pueden darse por terminados por cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes con aviso previo de un año que se comunicará a la otra Parte.
Si una Convención General multilateral de aviación, aceptada por ambas Partes Contratantes, entra en vigencia, este acuerdo será modificado de tal manera que sus disposiciones se conformen a aquellas de la Convención en referencia .
ARTICULO X En el caso que cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes considere conveniente modificar las rutas o condiciones establecidas en este

62 STAT. ] CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 10, 1947

Convenio, podrá pedir la consulta entre las autoridades competentes de ambas Partes Contratantes , debiendo iniciarse dicha consulta dentro de un período de 60 días a contar de la fecha de la petición. Cuando estas autoridades lleguen a acuerdo mutuo sobre modificaciones o nuevas condiciones que afecten a este Convenio, sus recomendaciones sobre materias relacionadas con el anexo B entrarán en vigencia después de haber sido confirmadas por un cambio de notas diplomáticas, y sus recomendaciones sobre materias relacionadas con el resto del Convenio entrarán en vigencia una vez aprobadas en conformidad a las leyes constitucionales de la respectiva Parte Contratante .
ARTICULO XI

Cualquiera divergencia entre las Partes Contratantes relativas a la interpretación o aplicación de este acuerdo o sus anexos que no pueda ser solucionada por medio de consulta, será sometida a informe consultivo del Consejo de la Organización de Aviación Civil Internacional, a menos que las Partes Contratantes convengan en someter la controversia a la decisión arbitral del mismo Organismo u otro Organismo designado de común acuerdo por las mismas Partes Contratantes ; quedando estas alternativas sujetas a las disposiciones constitucionales que rijan en cada país.
Las autoridades ejecutivas de las Partes Contratantes realizarán sus mayores esfuerzos , dentro de sus facultades, para dar cumplimiento a la opinión expresada en el informe consultivo .

ARTICULO XII

Este Convenio será aprobado por cada Parte Contratante en conformidad a sus propias leyes y entrará en vigencia en el momento del canje de los respectivos instrumentos de ambas Partes Contratantes que certifiquen tal aprobación. Ambas Partes Contratantes procurarán hacer efectivas las disposiciones de este Convenio, dentro de sus respectivas facultades administrativas, desde la fecha de su firma.
EN FE de lo cual , los Plenipotenciarios suscritos , debidamente autorizados por sus respectivos Gobiernos, firman el presente Convenio en doble ejemplar en lenguas castellana e inglesa , cada uno de los cuales será de igual autenticidad , en Santiago , a diez días del mes de Mayo de mil novecientos cuarenta y siete.

POR EL GOBIERNO DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA

[SEAL]

CLAUDE G BOWERS

Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América

[SEAL]

POR EL GOBIERNO DE CHILE R. JULIET
Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores.

ANEXO "A" Las Altas Partes Contratantes acuerdan lo siguiente: A) Las empresas de transporte aéreo de ambas Partes Contratantes que operen en las rutas a que se refiere el Anexo "B" del presente

3765

3766

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
acuerdo, disfrutarán de una oportunidad justa e igual en el funcionamiento de los servicios en dichas rutas;
B) La capacidad de transporte aéreo ofrecida por las empresas de transporte de ambos países , deberá estar estrechamente relacionada con las necesidades del tráfico ;
C) En el funcionamiento de secciones comunes en las rutas troncales, fijadas en el anexo "B" del presente Convenio, las empresas de transporte aéreo de las Partes Contratantes deberán tomar en cuenta sus recíprocos intereses de manera de no afectar indebidamente sus respectivos servicios ;
D) Los servicios proporcionados por una empresa de transporte aéreo establecida según este acuerdo y sus anexos, mantendrán como su objetivo principal el proporcionar una capacidad adecuada a las demandas del tráfico entre el país (o puntos bajo su jurisdicción) del cual dicha empresa de transporte aéreo es nacional y el país de último destino del tráfico ;
E) El derecho de embarcar o desembarcar en puntos situados bajo la jurisdicción del otro país, pasajeros, carga y correspondencia destinados a, o procedentes de terceros países , se regirá de acuerdo con los principios generales de un desarrollo ordenado . Ambos Gobiernos aceptan que la capacidad de tráfico estará relacionada con:
1º.- Las necesidades del tráfico entre el país de origen (o puntos bajo su jurisdicción) y los países de destino ;
2º.- Las necesidades inherentes a líneas que operan a través de varios países ; y
3º.- Las exigencias del tráfico de la zona a través de la cual pasa la línea aérea, tomando previamente en cuenta las exigencias de los servicios aéreos locales o regionales ;
F) Las autoridades aeronáuticas correspondientes de cada una de las Partes Contratantes podrán consultarse de tiempo en tiempo, o a pedido de una de las Partes , con el fin de determinar hasta qué punto los principios estipulados en este anexo se están cumpliendo por las
líneas aéreas designadas por las Partes Contratantes. Cuando estas autoridades acuerden las medidas adicionales necesarias para dar estos principios una aplicación práctica, las autoridades ejecutivas de cada una de las Partes Contratantes se esforzarán, de acuerdo con las facultades de que dispongan, para hacer efectivas tales medidas ;
G) Sujeto a las disposiciones del presente acuerdo , cada una de las Partes Contratantes podrá designar la ruta que seguirán en su territorio la línea o líneas aéreas de la otra Parte Contratante . La línea o líneas aéreas de cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes , si los reglamentos de la otra Parte Contratante así lo exigen, aterrizarán en el aeropuerto que designe dicha Parte Contratante para revisiones de aduana y otras. Al partir del territorio de una Parte Contratante, dichas aeronaves lo harán, si esa Parte así lo exige, desde un aeropuerto habilitado, igualmente designado ;
H) a. - Las tarifas que se determinaren conforme a los párrafos siguientes deberán ser razonables , y se fijarán teniendo en cuenta todos los factores pertinentes, tales como gastos de explotación, utili-

62 STAT. ] CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 10, 1947
dades equitativas, precios cobrados por otras empresas , y características de cada servicio (tales como velocidad y confort) ;
b. - Las tarifas que habrán de cobrar las líneas aéreas de cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes entre los diversos puntos del territorio de los Estados Unidos de América y del territorio de la República de Chile, mencionados en el anexo "B" , deberán estar sujetas , de conformidad con las disposiciones del presente acuerdo y sus anexos, a la previa aprobación de las autoridades aeronáuticas de las Partes Contratantes, las cuales actuarán con arreglo a sus obligaciones según el presente anexo, dentro del límite de sus facultades legales ;
c. - Cualquiera tarifa propuesta por la línea o líneas aéreas de cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes para regir en las rutas fijadas en el anexo "B", deberá comunicarse a las autoridades aeronáuticas de ambas Partes Contratantes, por lo menos con 30 días de anticipación a la fecha que se propone para que entren en vigor. En determinados casos este período de 30 días podrá reducirse cuando así lo acuerden las autoridades aeronáuticas de ambas Partes Contratantes ;
d. En virtud de haberse aprobado por la Civil Aeronautics Board de los Estados Unidos de América el régimen para la conferencia de tráfico de la Asociación de Transporte Aéreo Internacional , por un período de un año, a contar desde febrero de 1947 , cualquier acuerdo sobre tarifas concluído a través de dicha conferencia durante el citado plazo , que afecte a las líneas aéreas de los Estados Unidos de América, estará sujeto a la aprobación de la Civil Aeronautics Board. Los Convenios sobre tarifas concertados mediante esta conferencia deberán también estar sujetos a la aprobación de las autoridades aeronáuticas de la República de Chile, conforme a los principios enunciados en el párrafo b) precedente .
Cuando las autoridades aeronáuticas de ambas Partes Contratantes no puedan llegar a un acuerdo sobre la tarifa adecuada dentro de un término razonable, después de las negociaciones iniciadas, debido a la querella de una de las Partes Contratantes respecto a la tarifa objetada, se seguirá el procedimiento prescrito en el artículo XI del Convenio ;
I) En cada una de las rutas indicadas en el anexo "B" la línea aérea o líneas aéreas autorizadas podrán efectuar vuelos sin escala entre cualesquiera de los puntos de dicha ruta, omitiendo escalas en uno o más de los otros puntos de dicha ruta, sin perjuicio de los principios establecidos en el artículo X del presente Convenio ;
J) a. -Todo trasbordo de tráfico (change of gauge) justificable por razones de economía de explotación será admitido en cualquiera escala de las rutas establecidas ;
b. -No obstante, ningún trasbordo de tráfico (change of gauge) podrá efectuarse en los territorios de una u otra de las Partes Contratantes, cuando él modifique las características de la explotación de un servicio de largo recorrido, o sea incompatible con los principios enunciados en el presente Convenio y sus anexos ;
K) Los cambios hechos por cualquiera de las Partes Contratantes en las rutas designadas en el anexo "B", excepto aquellos que cambien

3767

3768

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
los puntos servidos por estas líneas aéreas en el territorio de la otra Parte Contratante no serán considerados como modificaciones al anexo. Las autoridades aeronáuticas de ambas Partes Contratantes pueden por lo tanto proceder unilateralmente a hacer tales cambios, quedando entendido , sin embargo , que se dará aviso sin retardo de cualquier cambio a las autoridades aeronáuticas de la otra Parte Contratante .
Si las autoridades aeronáuticas de la otra Parte mencionada consideran que, en vista de los principios establecidos en este anexo, los intereses de la línea o líneas aéreas de su nacionalidad se perjudicaren con el transporte por la línea o líneas aéreas de la Primera Parte Contratante del tráfico entre el territorio de la segunda Parte Contratante y el nuevo punto en el territorio del tercer país , las autori dades de las dos Partes Contratantes se consultarán con el objeto de llegar a un acuerdo satisfactorio .
CLAUDE G BOWERS
R. JULIET
ANEXO "B"
A) Se acuerda a las líneas aéreas de los Estados Unidos de América autorizadas según el presente Convenio , los derechos de tránsito y de escala con fines no comerciales en el territorio de la República de Chile, así como el derecho de recoger y descargar tráfico internacional de pasajeros , carga y correspondencia en las siguientes rutas vía puntos intermedios en ambas direcciones:
B) Los Estados Unidos y/o la Zona del Canal a Arica, Antofagasta y hasta Santiago y más allá de Chile ; (a ) desde Arica a puntos en Bolivia y más allá ; (b ) desde Antofagasta a puntos en Argentina y más allá ; y (c) desde Santiago a puntos en Argentina y más allá.
C ) A las líneas aéreas de la República de Chile autorizadas según el presente Convenio, se otorga, se otorga en el territorio de los Estados Unidos de América y puntos bajo su jurisdicción los derechos de tránsito y de escala con fines no comerciales , así como el derecho de recoger y descargar tráfico internacional de pasajeros, carga y correspondencia en las siguientes rutas, vía puntos intermedios en ambas direcciones :
D ) Desde la República de Chile a Miami y/o Nueva York y más allá de los Estados Unidos de América.
CLAUDE G BOWERS
R. JULIET

62 STAT. ] CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 10, 1947

3769

The American Ambassador to the Chilean Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 115

AMERICAN EMBASSY Santiago, May 10, 1947

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to present herewith a statement of the understand-

ing upon which the government of the United States proposes to execute the Air Transport Agreement entered into with the government of Chile.
Pan American Graos 1. A unique situation exists concerning the Panama Canal Zone by Airways Inc. reason of the relationship between the United States of America and the Panama Canal Zone arising out of certain treaties between the Republic of Panama and the United States of America . Pan American Grace Airways at present operates certain air services which originate in the Canal Zone . It is contemplated that , should an airport suitable for international airline operations be completed in the Republic of Panama, Pan American Grace Airways might transfer its base of operations to such an airport in the Republic of Panama, provided , of course, that the Republic of Panama should accede thereto . It is understood that such an operation by that air carrier of the United States of America which would originate its services in the Republic of Panama would exist because of the unique situation concerning the Canal Zone referred to above ; and, because of the highly unusual situation involved therein, the Government of the Republic of Chile would consider that that designated airline of the United States of America might originate its operations at such time and under such circumstances from a point in the Republic of Panama.
The Government of Chile understands that, since Pan American

Grace Airways Inc. is 50 percent owned by, and is therefore a part of, the Pan American World Airways system and, furthermore, has been

operating under the terms of a contract between the company and the Government of Chile between the Canal Zone and Chile for the past eighteen years, the United States' routes authorized in Annex
"B" are expected to be operated as a through airline operation between the United States and Chile. The Government of Chile, therefore ,

Ante, p. 3761.

does not regard the fact that Pan American Grace Airways Inc. may be technically originating its services from an airport in the Republic of Panama as establishing a precedent since, as indicated above, by reason of Pan American Grace Airways' close affiliation with the Pan

American Airways system and the fact that Pan American Grace Airways Inc. has been operating its present routes for many years with a close connection in the Canal Zone with the Pan American World

Airways system , the bulk of the originating traffic on these routes will

continue, as in the past, to originate in the United States .
Use of Allbrook Until such time as an airport in the Republic of Panama suitable Field, Canal Zone.

for international air transport operations is completed , airlines designated by the Republic of Chile may serve the Republic of Panama from Allbrook Field in the Canal Zone, subject to the military requirements referred to in Article 2 of this Agreement .

Ante, p. 3755.

3770

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Limitation.
44 Stat. 568. 49 U. S. C. §§ 171,
174-177, 179-184. 52 Stat. 973. 49 U. S.
6811;9Su.p5p.. IC,.ch$.594.0162 Stat . , Pt . 1 ,
pp. 470, 493, 1093, 1216

With reference thereto , the Government of the United States of America has called attention to its Air Commerce Act of 1926 as
amended by its Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938 which precludes the carriage by foreign aircraft of traffic between the Canal Zone and points in the United States and the authorization of Chilean airlines

hereby expressed is accordingly subject to the limitation established

by the above referred to legislation .

rouCteerst.ain West Coast 2. Although the Chilean routes to the United States as described in Ante, p. 3761. Annex B of the Agreement do not include a route to San Francisco,

California, and beyond , as desired by the government of Chile, since

it is not believed that such a route is presently justified economically,

it is understood that Chile has a predominant interest in the Pacific

and that, in view of this consideration , and when surrounding circum-

stances concerning possible future routes have sufficiently developed,

each government contemplates requesting the other government for

consultation (pursuant to the Agreement) regarding a modification

of Annex B to include the desired West Coast routes, as well as other

iceS.uspension of serv Ante, p. 3760.

routes if traffic potentialities justify their consideration. 3. In connection with the provisions of paragraph I of Annex A, it is
understood that each contracting party will notify the other contract-

ing party, as soon as practicable, whenever it receives notice of intent

Ante, p. 3759.

of one of its designated airlines to suspend service to a point or between points in the territory of the other contracting party, in order that the latter contracting party may have the opportunity to request consultation with respect to the proposed suspension if it considers that such proposed suspension may be prejudicial to its interests, provided that nothing herein stated shall prejudice the right of the contracting party operating the service concerned to suspend service within 30 days after notice of intention to suspend has been given to the other contracting party. 4. It is understood that the Government of Chile interprets the local and regional services referred to in paragraph E 3 of Annex A to mean

those services which unite two or more points between neighboring

and contiguous countries . The Government of the United States,

although it recognizes the possibility that this definition may prove

Customs airports.

to be the correct one, is not in a position to express its agreement with it at the present time. 5. It is understood that the Government of Chile, if it elects to desig-

Ante, p. 3759. Ante, p. 3761 .

nate entry and exit customs airports, as provided for in paragraph G of Annex A, will designate these airports in such a manner as to permit the United States routes described in Annex B, and any other United

States routes which may later be approved by the Government of

Chile, to be operated without operational disadvantage to the United

States airline or airlines designated to fly such routes . For example,

on a service entering Chile at Arica and proceeding to points in Bolivia

and beyond, the customs airport which Chile would designate for

original entry would be Arica and the same airport would be designated

as the customs airport of departure ; on a service entering Chile at

Antofagasta and proceeding to points in Argentina and beyond, the

customs airport for both entry and departure would be Antofagasta:

62 STAT.] CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 10, 1947

3771

on a service entering Chile at Antofagasta and proceeding to Santiago and thence to points in Argentina and beyond, the customs airport of original entry would be Antofagasta and the customs airport of departure would be Santiago. 6. With reference to Article II, it is understood by both contracting parties that the operating schedules of a designated airline or airlines will be regular and approved by the Aeronautical Authorities of both contracting parties . However, the provisions of Annex A shall govern the frequencies of schedules operated .
CLAUDE G. Bowers
His Excellency Señor don RAÚL JULIET G.
Minister for Foreign Affairs Santiago

Ante, p. 3755. Ante, p. 3758.

The Chilean Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPÚBLICA DE CHILE MINISTERIO
DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES
NO 004996.-

SANTIAGO, 10 de Mayo de 1947

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :
Tengo el honor de someter a Vuestra Excelencia la presente declaración como interpretación de la forma como el Gobierno de Chile se propone ejecutar el Convenio de Transporte Aéreo que ha concertado con el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos .
1º. Una situación especial existe en cuanto a la Zona del Canal de Panamá a causa de las relaciones entre los Estados Unidos y la Zona, emanada de ciertos tratados entre la República de Panamá y los Estados Unidos de América.-La "Panamerican Grace Airways" actualmente opera ciertos servicios aéreos que se originan en la Zona del Canal. Se contempla que, en el caso que se habilitara un aeropuerto adaptable al tráfico aéreo internacional en la República de Panamá, la "Panamerican Grace Airways" podría transladar su base de operaciones a tal aeropuerto en la República de Panamá , siempre que, naturalmente, la República de Panamá consintiera en ello . Se entiende que tal operación de esa línea aérea de los Estados Unidos de América, cuyos servicios tendrían su origen en la República de Panamá, existiría en razón de la situación única concerniente a la Zona del Canal mencionada más arriba ; y en razón de la situación extraordinaria allí creada, el Gobierno de Chile podría considerar que esta línea aérea designada por los Estados Unidos de América pudiera tener como lugar de origen de sus operaciones en tal oportunidad y bajo tales circunstancias un punto en la República de Panamá. El Gobierno de Chile entiende que, considerando que "Panamerican Grace Airways" pertenece en un 50% y es por lo tanto parte de "Panamerican World Airways System", y que, aun más, ha estado operando en conformidad a los términos de una concesión otorgada a la Compañía por el Gobierno de Chile durante los últimos 18 años ,
68706-52-PT. III- 74

3772

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
las líneas de los Estados Unidos autorizadas en el anexo "B" deberán ser operadas como una línea aérea continua entre los Estados Unidos y Chile. El Gobierno de Chile , por consiguiente, no considera que el hecho que "Panamerican Grace Airways" pueda técnicamente tener como punto de origen de sus servicios un aeropuerto en la República de Panamá, establezca un precedente , desde que, como se ha indicado más arriba, por razón de la estrecha afiliación de "Panamerican Grace Airways" con "Panamerican World Airways System" y del hecho de que "Panamerican Grace Airways" ha estado operando sus rutas actuales por muchos años con una íntima conexión en la Zona del Canal con "Panamerican World Airways System", el grueso del volumen del tráfico producido en dichas rutas continuará como en el pasado teniendo su origen en los Estados Unidos de América.
Hasta el momento en que un aeropuerto de la República de Panamá adaptable a las operaciones de transporte aéreo internacional se habilitare, las líneas aéreas designadas por la República de Chile podrían atender la República de Panamá desde Allbrook Field en la Zona del Canal, sujetas a los requisitos militares mencionados en el artículo II del Convenio.
Con referencia a esta situación , el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América desea llamar la atención sobre su Ley de Comercio Aéreo de 1926 , modificada por la Ley de Aeronáutica Civil de 1938 , que impide el transporte de tráfico por aviones extranjeros entre la Zona del Canal y puntos en los Estados Unidos de América y la autorización a las líneas aéreas chilenas aquí expresadas, quedará sujeta a la limitación establecida por las disposiciones legales arriba referidas.
2º.- Aunque las rutas chilenas a los Estados Unidos tal como se describen en el anexo "B" de este Convenio no incluyen una ruta a San Francisco, California, y más allá, como lo desea el Gobierno de Chile, y como no se cree que tal ruta esté justificada económicamente por el momento, se contempla, sin embargo , el hecho de que Chile tiene un interés predominante en el Pacífico y que, en vista de esta consideración, y cuando las demás circunstancias relativas al establecimiento de futuras rutas posibles hayan sido debidamente desarrolladas, cada Gobierno contempla el solicitar del otro Gobierno por consulta (conforme a este Convenio) la modificación del anexo "B" a fin de incluir las deseadas rutas por la costa occidental, como asimismo otras rutas si la potencialidad de tráfico justificara su consideración .
3º.- En relación con las disposiciones del párrafo I, anexo "A", queda comprendido que cada Parte Contratante notificará a la otra Parte Contratante, tan pronto como sea practicable, cuando reciba informaciones respecto del propósito de alguna de las líneas aéreas designadas en el sentido de suspender servicios hacia un punto o entre diferentes puntos dentro del territorio de la otra Parte Contratante, a fin de que la Parte Contratante afectada pueda tener la oportunidad de pedir consulta con respecto a la suspensión propuesta en el caso que considere que tal suspensión pueda ser perjudicial a sus intereses; en el sentido de que nada de lo aquí estipulado perjudique el derecho de la Parte Contratante que opere el servicio en cuestión para sus-

62 STAT.] CHILE--AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES MAY 10, 1947
pender el servicio dentro de un plazo de treinta días después de haberse dado a la otra Parte la noticia de la intención de suspender el servicio .
4°. Queda comprendido que el Gobierno de Chile interpreta los servicios locales y regionales a que se hace referencia en el párrafo E 3, anexo "A" , en el sentido de que aquellos servicios son los que unen
dos o más puntos entre países vecinos y contiguos . El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, aunque reconoce la posibilidad
de que esta definición pueda llegar a ser correcta, no está en situación de manifestar desde ahora su conformidad .
5º. - Queda comprendido que el Gobierno de Chile, si llega a designar aeropuertos aduaneros de entrada y salida, tal como se contempla en el párrafo G del anexo "A", hará la designación de tales aeropuertos en forma de permitir que las rutas de los Estados Unidos descritas en el anexo "B", y toda otra ruta de los Estados Unidos que más tarde pueda ser aprobada por el Gobierno de Chile, puedan ser operadas sin desventaja alguna en cuanto a su operación , no perjudicándose así la línea aérea o las líneas aéreas de los Estados Unidos designadas para volar en estas rutas.-Por ejemplo, tratándose de un servicio que entrara al territorio chileno en Arica y que prosigue a puntos en Bolivia y más allá, el aeropuerto aduanero que Chile designaría para la entrada inicial sería Arica y este mismo aeropuerto sería designado como el aeropuerto aduanero de salida ; así, en un servicio que entrara en territorio chileno en Antofagasta y que prosigue a puntos en Argentina y más allá, el aeropuerto aduanero tanto para la entrada como para la salida sería Antofagasta ; en un servicio que entrara a Chile en Antofagasta y que prosigue a Santiago y de ese punto a puntos en Argentina y más allá, el aeropuerto aduanero inicial de entrada sería Antofagasta y el aeropuerto aduanero de salida sería Santiago .
6º.- Con referencia al artículo II queda comprendido por ambas Partes Contratantes que los itinerarios de operación de una línea aérea designada o líneas aéreas designadas serán regulares y aprobados por las autoridades aeronáuticas de ambas Partes Contratantes ; sin embargo, las disposiciones del anexo "A" regirán las frecuencias de los itinerarios operados.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
R. JULIET Al Excelentisimo Señor CLAUDE G. BOWERS ,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América.Presente.

REPUBLIC OF CHILE MINISTRY
OF FOREIGN RELATIONS No. 004996.-
MR. AMBASSADOR :

Translation SANTIAGO, May 10, 1947

I have the honor to submit to Your Excellency the present declara-

tion as an interpretation of the manner in which the Government of

3773

3774

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Chile proposes to execute the Air Transport Agreement entered into with the Government of the United States.
[For the English language text of the numbered paragraphs, see p. 3769.]
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
R. JULIET His Excellency
CLAUDE G. Bowers, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Santiago.

The American Ambassador to the Chilean Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 116

AMERICAN EMBASSY Santiago, May 10, 1947

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to state to Your Excellency that the air transport

agreement between the Government of Chile and the Government of the United States of America , signed on this day, will be approved by each Contracting Party in accordance with its own laws and shall enter into force upon an exchange of the respective instruments of the two Contracting Parties indicating such approval. Both Contracting Parties will undertake to make effective the provisions of this agree-

ment, within their respective administrative powers , from the date on which it is signed .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

CLAUDE G. BOWERS

His Excellency Señor don RAUL JULIET G.
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Chile Santiago

The Chilean Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
REPÚBLICA DE CHILE MINISTERIO
DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

No. 004995

SANTIAGO, 10 de Mayo de 1947.-

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR:
Tengo el honor de manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Convenio sobre Transporte Aéreo entre el Gobierno de Chile y el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, suscrito en esta misma fecha, será aprobado por cada Parte Contratante en conformidad a sus propias

62 STAT. ] CHILE-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-MAY 10, 1947
leyes y entrará en vigencia en el momento del canje de los respectivos instrumentos de ambas Partes Contratantes que certifiquen tal aprobación. Ambas Partes Contratantes procurarán hacer efectivas, desde esta fecha, las disposiciones de este Convenio, dentro de sus restectivas facultades administrativas.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
R. JULIET Al Excmo . Señor CLAUDE G. Bowers ,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de America.Presente.-

REPUBLIC OF CHILE MINISTRY
OF FOREIGN RELATIONS
No. 004995

Translation SANTIAGO, May 10, 1947.-

MR. AMBASSADOR : I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Air Transport
Agreement between the Government of Chile and the Government of the United States of America, signed on this day, will be approved by each Contracting Party in accordance with its own laws and shall enter into force upon the exchange of the respective instruments of the two Contracting Parties indicating such approval. The two Contracting Parties will undertake to make the provisions of this Agreement effective, beginning with this date, within their respective administrative powers.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
R. JULIET
His Excellency CLAUDE G. BOWERS , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Santiago.

3775

3776

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

November 22 , 29, 1948 [T. I. A. 8. 1906]

Agreement between the United States of America and Belgium respecting economic cooperation under Public Law 472 , 80th Congress, amending the agreement of July 2 , 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Brussels November 22 and 29, 1948 ; entered into force November 29, 1948.

The Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
MINISTÈRE DES
AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES ET DU
COMMERCE EXTÉRIEUR

Direction Générale du Commerce Extérieur
IIe Direction
2e Section: Plan Marshall n° 61
Dossier n° 12

BRUXELLES, LE 22 novembre 1948

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,

J'ai l'honneur de porter à la connaissance de Votre Excellence que

le Gouvernement belge ayant constaté, tout comme le Gouverne-

ment des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, qu'une erreur altère le sens du Paragraphe 2 de l'Article XII de la Convention de Coopération Economique, est d'accord que le texte véritable de ce Paragraphe devrait être le suivant:

"2. Si, pendant la durée de l'Accord , l'un des Gouvernements considère qu'il y a eu un changement fondamental dans les circonstances se trouvant à l'origine de cet Accord , il le notifiera par écrit à l'autre Gouvernement , Les deux Gouvernements se consulteront alors en vue de convenir de la modification, de la transformation et de la terminaison de l'Accord . Si , après un délai de trois mois à dater de cette notification, les deux Gouvernements n'ont pas convenu de l'action à prendre dans ces circonstances, chaque Gouvernement pourra notifier par écrit à l'autre son intention de mettre fin à l'Accord. Dans ce cas, sous réserve des dispositions du paragraphe 3 du présent
Article, cet Accord prendra fin:
a) Six mois après la notification de l'intention d'y mettre fin, ou b) Après telle période plus courte à convenir, suffisante néanmoins
pour assurer que les obligations du Gouvernement de Belgique sont exécutées à l'égard de toute aide que le Gouvernement américain pourrait continuer à lui apporter après la date de cette notification ;

étant entendu toutefois que l'Article V et le paragraphe 3 de l'Article VII resteront en vigueur deux ans après la date de la notification de l'intention de mettre fin à l'Accord, mais en aucun cas après le 30 juin 1953. "

62 STAT. ] BELGIUM-ECONOMIC COOPERATION- NOV. 22, 29, 1948

3777

"2. If, during the life of this Agreement, either Government should consider there has been a fundamental change in the basic assump-
tions underlying this Agreement, it shall so notify the other Government in writing and the two Governments will thereupon consult with a view to agreeing upon the amendment, modification or termination of this Agreement. · If, after three months from such notification the two Governments have not agreed upon the action to be taken in the circumstances, either Government may give notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate this Agreement. Then , subject to
the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article, this Agreement shall terminate either :

(a) Six months after the date of such notice of intention to terminate, or
(b) After such shorter period as may be agreed to be sufficient to ensure that the obligations of the Government of Belgium are
performed in respect of any assistance which may continue to be furnished by the Government of the United States of America after the date of such notice ;
provided, however, that Article V and paragraph 3 of the Article VII 62 Stat . , Pt. 2, pp. 2184, 2187.
shall remain in effect until two years after the date of such notice of intention to terminate, but not later than June 30 , 1953."

Votre Excellence voudra bien me confirmer l'accord du Gouverne-
ment des Etats-Unis d'Amérique sur cette correction au texte de la Convention .
Je saisis cette occasion , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur , pour renouveler á Votre Excellence les assurances de ma très haute considération.

Son Excellence l'Amiral ALAN GOODRICH KIRK, Ambassadeur des Etats- Unis d'Amérique, á Bruxelles.

P. H. SPAAK

Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND FOREIGN COMMERCE

Office of the Director General of Foreign Commerce
Second Administrative Division 2nd Section: Marshall Plan
No. 61 File No. 12
Mr. AMBASSADOR:

BRUSSELS, November 22, 1948

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Belgian Gov-
ernment, having noted, as has the United States Government, that
an error changes the meaning of paragraph 2 of Article XII of the 62 Stat . , Pt . 2,
Economic Cooperation Agreement, agrees that the proper text of p. 2192.
that paragraph should be the following:

3778

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
[For the French and English language texts of Article XII, par. 2, see pp . 3776 , 3777. ]
Your Excellency will be so good as to confirm to me the United States Government's approval of this correction in the text of the Agreement .
I avail myself of this occasion, Mr. Ambassador , to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my very high consideration .
P. H. SPAAK His Excellency
ALAN GOODRICH KIRK, Ambassador of the United States of America, Brussels .

The American Ambassador to the Belgian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 1902

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Brussels, November 29, 1948.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the letter of Your Excel-

lency dated November 22 , 1948 , of which the text is as follows :

"J'ai l'honneur de porter à la connaissance de Votre Excellence que le Gouvernement belge ayant constaté, tout comme le Gouvernement des Etats -Unis d'Amérique, qu'une erreur altère le sens du Paragraphe 2 de l'Article XII de la Convention de Coopération. Economique, est d'accord que le texte véritable de ce Paragraphe devrait être le suivant :
"2. Si , pendant la durée de l'Accord , l'un des Gouvernements considère qu'il y a eu un changement fondamental dans les circonstances se trouvant à l'origine de cet Accord , il le notifiera par écrit à l'autre Gouvernement. Les deux Gouvernements se consulteront alors en vue de convenir de la modification , de la transformation et de la terminaison de l'Accord . Si, après un délai de trois mois à dater de cette notification , les deux Gouvernements n'ont pas convenu de l'action à prendre dans ces circonstances , chaque Gouvernement pourra notifier par écrit à l'autre son intention de mettre fin à l'Accord. Dans ce cas , sous réserve des dispositions du paragraphe 3 du présent Article , cet Accord prendra fin:
a) Six mois après la notification de l'intention d'y mettre fin, ou
b) Après telle période plus courte à convenir, suffisante néanmoins pour assurer que les obligations du Gouvernement de Belgique sont exécutées à l'égard de toute aide que le Gouvernement américain pourrait continuer à lui apporter après la date de cette notification:

étant entendu toutefois que l'Article V et le paragraphe 3 de l'Article VII resteront en vigueur deux ans après la date de la notification de l'intention de mettre fin à l'Accord , mais en aucun cas après le 30 juin 1953."

62 STAT. ] BELGIUM- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- NOV. 22, 29, 1948

3779

"2. If, during the life of this Agreement, either Government should consider there has been a fundamental change in the basic assumptions

underlying this Agreement, it shall so notify the other Government in writing and the two Governments will thereupon consult with a view to agreeing upon the amendment, modification or termination of this Agreement . If, after three months from such notification the two Governments have not agreed upon the action to be taken in the circumstances , either Government may give notice in writing to the other of intention to terminate this Agreement . Then, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article , this Agreement shall terminate either:

(a) Six months after the date of such notice of intention to terminate , or

(b) After such shorter period as may be agreed to be sufficient to ensure that the obligations of the Government of Belgium are performed in respect of any assistance which may continue to be furnished by the Government of the United States of America after the date of such notice ;

provided , however, that Article V and paragraph 3 of the Article VII shall remain in effect until two years after the date of such notice of intention to terminate, but not later than June 30 , 1953."
"Votre Excellence voudra bien me confirmer l'accord du Gouver-

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, pp. 2184, 2187.

nement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique sur cette correction au texte de la Convention . "

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that my Government

is in agreement with the text as given above. I take this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of

my highest consideration.

ALAN G. KIRK

His Excellency Monsieur PAUL HENRI SPAAK,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Brussels.

3780

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

December 10, 1948 [T. I. A. 8. 1908]

Agreement between the United States of America and Korea respecting economic cooperation under Public Law 793, 80th Congress . Signed at Seoul December 10, 1948; entered into force December 14, 1948.

AGREEMENT ON AID BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA

PREAMBLE

62 Stat . , Pt.1 , p.1054.
59 Stat . 1031.

The Government of the Republic of Korea having requested the Government of the United States of America for financial , material and technical assistance to avert economic crisis , promote national recovery . and insure domestic tranquility in the Republic of Korea , and
The Congress of the United States of America, in the Act approved June 28 , 1948 , (Public Law 793, 80th Congress ) , having authorized the President of the United States of America to furnish assistance to the people of the Republic of Korea, and
The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea , believing that the furnishing of such assistance , on terms consonant with the independence and security of the Government of the Republic of Korea, will help to achieve the basic objectives of the Charter of the United Nations and the United Nations General Assembly Resolutions

  
  
      
        "  
076 ,   ,   
       .

     

       ... 201          (1 )                   

      )            



-



62 STAT. ] KOREA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION- DEC. 10, 1948

on November 14, 1947, and will further strengthen the ties of friendship between the American and Korean peoples :
The undersigned , being duly authorized by their respective Governments for that purpose, have agreed as follows :
ARTICLE I The Government of the United States of America will furnish the Government of the Republic of Korea such assistance as the President of the United States of America may authorize to be provided in accordance with the Act of Congress approved June 28 , 1948 , ( Public Law 793 , 80th Congress ) , and any Acts amendatory or supplementary thereto .
ARTICLE II The Government of the Republic
· cf Korea, in addition to making the rost advantageous use of all available Korean resources, will make sirilarly effective use of the aid furnished to the Government of the Republic of Korea by the Government of the United States of America . In order further to strengthen and stabilize the economy of Korea as soon as possible , the Government of the Republic of Korea hereby undertakes to effectuate , among others

  ,           -  

          

     ·

 



 

  



     



k

    

    
     

 )         
         

       

3781
Assistance to Korea.
62 Stat . , Pt . 1 , p.1054.
Measures for advantageous use of resources.

3782

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

the following measures: (a) The balancing of the
budget through the exercise of economy in governmental expenditures and the increase of governmental revenues by all practicable means .
(b) The maintenance of such controls over the issuance of currency and the use of private and governmental credit as are essential to the attainment of economic stability.
(c ) The regulation of all Foreign Exchange transactions and the establishment of foreign trade controls , including an export and import licensing system , in order to insure that all foreign exchange resources make a maximum contribu tion to the welfare of the Korean people and recovery of the Korean
economy . (d ) The establishment of a
rate of exchange for the Korean currency as soon as economic conditions in Korea warrant such action .
(e ) The exertion of all possible efforts to attain maximum production , collection and equitable distribution of locally-produced supplies , including the continuance of a program of collection and distribution of indigenously- produced

( 1 )      

     

    

     

 

 

(4 )        " )  

 



  



( )



    

    

    



       

     

     ( 4)     

              (  )    

    ) 

    

  ,



 

62 STAT. ] KOREA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION- DEC. 10, 1948

cereal grains designed to (1) Assure a minimum ade-
quate staple ration at controlled prices for all non-self-suppliers , end where necessary to distribute to indigent and needy persone their fair share of available food supplies ; end
( 2 ) Obtein foreign exchange .
( f ) The facilitation of private foreign investments in Korea together with the admittance of private foreign traders to transact business in Korea subject to such restrictions as are prescribed in the Constitution and the Laws of the Republic of Korea.
(g ) The development of Koreun export industries as rapidly BE practicable .
(h) The wanagement or disposition of government- owned productive facilities and properties in such a manner as will insure in the general welfare , the furtherance of maximum production .
ARTICLE III 1 . The Government of the United States of America will appoint an official (hereinafter referred to as the United States Aid Representative ) to discharge the responsibilities in

    

 



    

   ()   

  )    

(2 )      ·
(37 )  

;

      
   ( )            )    )    (07) -·   

     





1.          )  

       (    

3783
United States Aid Representative.

3784

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Korea of the Government of the United States of America under the terms of this Agreement . Within the terms of this Agreement , the United States Aid Representative and his staff will assist the Govern-

    )  



  

    

  

          

ment of the Republic of Korea to make the most effective use of Korea's own resources and of aid furnished to the Government of the Republic of Korea by the Government of the United States of America, thereby to advance reconstruction

          
:      





   

   

and promote economic recovery in

  

Privileges and immunities.

Korea as soon as possible . 2. The Government of the Re-
public of Korea agrees to extend diplomatic privileges and immunities to the United States Aid Representa-

    

  

  

Assistance to U. 8. Aid Representative.

tive and members of his mission. 3. The Government of the Re-
public of Korea will furnish all practicable assistance to the United States Aid Representative in

3.       201
    

order to enable him to discharge his responsibilities . The Government of the Republic of Korea will permit the free movement of employees of the Government of the United States of America engaged in carrying out the provisions of this Agreement to , in or from Korea; facilitate the employment of Korean nationals and residents ;



     

   

  

   

  



 

        

62 STAT. ] KOREA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- DEC. 10, 1948

authorize the acquisition of facilities and services at reasonable Frices; and in other ways assist the United States Aid Representative in the performance of his necessary duties . The Government of the Republic of Korea , in consultation with the United States Aid Representative, will effectuate such mutually acceptable arrangements as are necessary for the utilization of the petroleum storage and distribution facilities , and other facilities which are required to carry out the objectives of this Agreement .
4. The Government of the Republic of Korea will permit the United States Aid Representative and his staff to travel and to observe freely the utilization of assistance furnished to Korea by the Government of the United States of America , and will recognize his right to make such recommendations in respect thereto as he deems necessary for the effective discharge of his responsibilities under this Agreement . The Government of the Republic of Korea will maintain such accounts and records pertaining to the Aid Program, and will furnish the United States Aid Representative such reports and information as he may request .

2)               

      ok     

  

4.         
    

     )  

   ,                             ,

  





3785

3786

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Abuses or violations of agreement.
Operating agency.

5. In the event the United States Aid Representative ascertains the existence of abuses or viola-

(5. )                

tions of this hgrcecent , he will so inform the Government of the Republic of Korea . The Government of the Republic of Korea will promptly take such action as is necessary to correct such abuses or violations as are found to exist and inform the

     
            ...       , 

United States Aid Representative of action taken. If, in the opinion of the United States Aid Representative , appropriate corrective action is not

  
  

    

taken by the Government of the Republic of Korea , he may take such steps as may be appropriate and proper and ray recommend to the Government of the United States of America

       

the termination of further assistance . 6. The Government of the Re-
public of Korea will establish an operating agency to develop and ad-

   16. )      

minister a program relating to the requirements , procurement , allocation , distribution, pricing, and accounting

    

for supplies obtained under this Agreement . In the development and execution of such a program the operating agency will consult with the United

 )        

States Aid Representative .

62 STAT. ] KOREA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- DEC. 10, 1948

ARTICLE IV 1. The Government of the Republic of Korea will develop an overall economic recovery plan designed to stabilize the Korean economy . An integral part of this economic recovery plan will be an import-export program to be agreed upon by the United States Aid Representative and the Government of the Republic of Korea . In consonance with this agreed upon import-export program, the Government of the Republic of Korea will transmit to the United States Aid Representative fully justified import requirements, together with estimates of export availabilities , this information to be transmitted at such times and in such form 88 may be desired by the United States Aid Representative . 2. The Government of the Republic of Korea will insure that the periodic allocation of foreign exchange by categories of use will be made in consultation with and with the concurrence of the United States Aid Representative , and that expenditures of foreign exchange will be made in accordance with such allocations .

(1.) 

 

7)    
  

,

   

             

    

    

     

     

 

  

01) 7")     

» ? **.

ATD .

  ,   

 

(2.)     



  

  

     

     ),

an ec.f  

at it .

3787
Economic recovery plan.

3788

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Consultants and technicians .

3. Where it is deemed necessary . the Government of the Republic of Korea will employ foreign consultants and technicians to assure the effective utilization of domestic resources and of equipment and materials

3.   
         ...      )         

Distribution of supplies.

brought into Korea under the importexport program. The Governrent of the Republic of Korea will in each case inform the United States Aid Representative of its intention to employ such individuals .
ARTICLE Y 1. The Government of the Republic of Korea will take all appropriate steps regarding the distribution within Korea of goods provided by the Government of the United States of America pursuant to this agreement , and of similar goods imported through the use of other funds or produced locally, to insure a fair and equitable distribution of these supplies at reasonable prices consistent with local economic conditions within the

           2        2     200    
  1.       ,   ok   )          ,            
  
   )       )      
           )  
  (  

Special account in the Bank of Chosun.

Republic of Korea, and to insure that all such goods are used for the purpose envisaged by this Agreement .
2. The Government of the United States of America shall from time to

      
  , 2.         ,   

time notify the Government of the Republic of Korea of the indicated dol-

      

lar cost of commodities , services . and technical information ( including

    ( 

62 STAT. ] KOREA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- DEC. 10, 1948

any cost of processing , storing . transporting, repairing or other services incident thereto ) made available to Korea on a grant basis pursuant to this Agreement . The Goverment of the Republic of Korea, upon notification of such indicated dollar costs , shall thereupon deposit in a special account in its name at the Bank of Chosun a. couzénsurate amount in won, computed at a wondollar ratio which shall be agreed to at such time between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the United States Aid Representative . The Government of the Republic of Korea will use any balance in the special account, to pay the United States Aid Representative such funds. as he may require from time to time to meet the won expenses incurred in the discharge of his responsibilities within Korea , under this Agreement . The remaining suns in the special account may be used only for such other purposes as may be agreed upon from time to time between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the United States Aid Representative .
3. The Government of the Republic of Korea will not permit the re-export of goods provided by the Government of the United States of

     

     )  

an i

24.

       ,  )         

     

           ,                            20  
   ,   


  ,       ,    
           , 

   

3.     

   



    

     

3789

3790

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

America pursuant to this Agreement or the export or re-export of commodities of the same character produced locally or otherwise procured , without the concurrence of the United

           
      )

Marking, etc. , com. modities furnished by
U.S.

States Aid Representative . 4 . The Government of the Re-
public of Korea w111 insure that all commodities made available under this Agreement or the containers of such commodities shall , to the extent practicable , be marked , stamped, branded, or labeled in a conspicuous place as legibly, indelibly, and permanently as the nature of such COM-



       



 ).  

 ,   )   2    ÷ ,

        .    ,   

modities or containers will permit , in such a manner as to indicate to the people of Korea that such commod-

·   ,   , 

ities have been furnished or made available by the Uniteâ States of

America . ARTICLE VI
1. The Government of the Re-

 

public of Korea will undertake to use

its best endeavors to cooperate with other countries in facilitating and

  

stimulating an increasing interchange of goods and services with other countries and in reducing public and private barriers to trade with other

    



   

Most-favored-nation treatment .

countries . 2. Pending the entry into force

2.      

62 STAT. ] KOREA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION-DEC. 10, 1948

of a Treaty of Amity and Commerce between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Republic of Korea, the Government of the United States of America shall accord , immediately and unconditionally , to the merchandise trade of the Republic of Korea treatment no less favorable than that accorded to the merchandise trade of Any third country. Similarly, treatment no less favorable than that accorded to the merchandise trade of any third . country shall be accorded , immedi- ately and unconditionally, within the Republic of Korea , to the merchandise trade of the United States of America.
3. Departures from the application of the most-favored- nation treatment provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be permitted to the extent that they are in accord with the exceptions recognized under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade , dnted Octcber 30 , 1947 , con- cluded at the Second Session of the Preparatory Committee of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Employment , AS now or hereafter amended . The provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to require compliance with the procedures specified in the General

      

     )            ,       

  ,   

 





 

    , 

 

, 

    ) 

3.    (1) 

    

 )

 ,

-

   



  )  

   



  -             

         (0)         
    )   

3791 61 Stat., Pts. 5 and

3792

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Agreement with regard to the applica-

(01)   

tion of such exception . 4. The provisions of para-
graphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall apply, with respect to the United States of America , to all territory under its sovereignty or authority .
5 . The Government of the Republic of Korea shall accord reciprocal most- favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of any area in the free territory of Trieste , Japan or Western Germany in the occupation or control of which the Government of the United States participates , for such time and to such extent 28 such area accords most-favored-nation treatment to the merchandise trade of the Republic of

4.            
        )  
 5.   ,         )   ,  2 ) (0 )     ,            )   ,      
1)           
    ,         

Korea .

6. The provisions

para-

graphs 2 and 3 of this article shall

not derogate from such other obliga-

tions concerning the matters contained in this Agreement as may at

any time be in effect between the Government of the United States of

  6.        ,          ) K )  
     ~ )     

America and the Government of the



 

Republic of Korea. 7. The Government of the Re-
public of Korea w111 take the measures which it deems appropriate

7.        , 

62 STAT. ] KOREA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- DEC. 10, 1948

to prevent , on the part of private or public commercial enterprises , business practices or business arrangements affecting international trade which have the effect of interfering with the purposes and policies of this Agreement .
8. The provisions of this Article and of Article VII shall apply during such period as the Government of the United States of America extends aid to the Government of the Republic of Korea under the terms of this Agreement , unless superseded by a Treaty of Amity and Commerce.

      

      





) )

     

 

8.     

  ,    ()    )  

          
   



   

   ,

3793

ARTICLE VII The Government of the Republic of Korea shall , with respect to commercial , industrial , shipping and other business activities , accord to the Nationals of the United States of America treatment no less favorable than that now or hereafter

          

Treatment of U.S. nationals.

      

accorded by the Republic of Korea to Nationals of any third country. As used in this paragraph , the word " Nationals" shall be understood . to include natural and juridical persons.

    

ARTICLE VIII The Government of the Republic of Korea will facilitate the transfer to the United States of America ,

     ,          

3794

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

for stockpiling or other purposes , of materials originating in the Republic of Korea which are required by the United States of America as a result of deficiencies or potential deficiencies in ite own resources , upon such reasonable terms of sale , exchange , barter or otherwise , and in such quantities , and for such period of time , as may be agreed to between the Governments
of the United States of America and the Republic of Korea after due regard for the reasonable requirements of the Republic of Korea for domestic use and commercial export of such materials . The Government of the Republic of Korea will take such specific measures within the intent of this Agreement as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph, including the promotion of the increased production
of such materials within the Republic of Korea, and the removal of any hindrances to the transfer of such materials to the United States of America. The Government of the Republic of Korea will, when 80 requested by the Government of theUnited States of America , enter into negotiations for detailed arrangements necessary to carry out the provisions of this paragraph .

      ) ,    )  
  ,  )             

      4·     
         )      
    

     



    

,     

1     )  

            , 

    
       
   .
          
   

62 STAT. ] KOREA- ECONOMIC COOPERATION- DEC. 10, 1948

3795

ARTICLE IX 1. The Government of the Republic of Korea and the Government of the United States of America will cooperate in assuring the peoples of the United States of America and of Korea full information concerning the goods and technical assistance furnished to the Government of the Republic of Korea by the Government of the United States of America . 2. The Government of the Republic of Korea wili permit representatives of the press and radio of the United States of Ane rica to travel and to observe freely and to report fully regarding the receipt and utilization of American aid . 3. The Government of the Republic of Korea will permit reprecentatives of the Government of the United States of America , including such committees of the Congress as may be authorized by their respective touses to observe , advise , and report on the distribution among the people of commodities made available under this Agreement . 4. The Government of the Republic of Korea will cooperate with the United States Aid Representative in providing full and continuous publicity in Korea on the purpose,

 1.        ÷  

Publicity regarding aid .

         ,  ok      

 ) 22 



" 

 

2.      ,              )  k     
        , 3.   , 

            Fo )   

        ,
4.    .    ,            )         

68706-52 - PT. III-~~-75

3796 Termination.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

source , character, scope , amounts and progress of the economic and technical aid provided to the

   ,        

Government of the Republic of Korea by the Government of the United States of America under the provisions of this Aid Agreement .

    
       

ARTICLE X 1. Any or all assistance authorized to be provided pursuant to this Agreement will be teruinated --

1.     OK     )    )  

(a ) If requested by the Government of the Republic of Korea .
(b) If the United Nations

( )    

finds that action taken or assistance furnished by the United Nations makes

 ÷   , 

the continuance of assistance by the Government of the United States of

      

America nursuant to this Agreement unnecessary or undesirable .
( c ) If the President of the United States of America determines that the Government of the Republic of Korea is not adhering to the terms of this Agreement ; or whenever

   

1  )    ( )     

    



       

.)

he finds , by reason of changed condi- tions that aid provided under this Agreement is no longer necessary or desirable ; or whenever he finds that , because of changed conditions , aid under this Agreement is no longer consistent with the national interests of the United States of America.

       

      

4.

14 :

    

     

      2 ) 

·

62 STAT. ] KOREA-ECONOMIC COOPERATION- DEC. 10, 1948

3797

ARTICLE XI This Agreement shall become effective with the formal notification to the Government of the United States of America that the Korean National Assembly has consented to this Agreement . '] It shall remain in force until three (3) months after the day on which either Government shall have given to the other notice of intention to terminate . This Agreement may be amended at any time by agreement between the two Governrents .
ARTICLE XII This Agreement shall be registered with the United Nations . Done in duplicate , in the English and Korean languages at Seoul , Korea , this 10th day of December 1948. The English and Korean texts shall have equal force , but in the case of divergence , the English text shall prevail .

For the Government United States of America:

of the

[2]

For the Government of the Republic of Korea :

                      

        )  

     , ( )



)    

it.

    "  k     

  ·   

         
    

           4  
   (1)  





 

Entry into force ; duration.
Amendment . Registration . Prevailing text.

[] Leykumsuk

 

MY Kira

  

1 Entered into force Dec. 14, 1948, the date on which the Korean Minister of Foreign Affairs at Seoul notified the Chief of Civil Affairs Section of the United States Armed Forces in Korea that the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea ratified the Ald
Ag2reJeomhennJt. oMnucDceic.o.13 ·, 1L9ee48, .Bumsuk. * D. Y. Kim .

3798

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

December 1, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1909]

Agreement between the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting duty-free entry and payment of transportation charges on relief supplies and packages for the United Kingdom . Effected by exchange of notes signed at London December 1 , 1948; entered into force December 1 , 1948.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim and the Minister of the Economic Cooperation Administration to the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

No. 3625 SIR :

AMERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON December 1 , 1948.

We have the honor to propose that for the purpose of giving effect

to Article VI , paragraph 2 , read with Article IV, paragraph 5 , of the

Economic Cooperation Agreement between the Governments of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the

pp6.226S02t,a2t60.0 . Pt . 2 , United States of America signed on July 6 , 1948 (hereinafter referred to as the Economic Cooperation Agreement) , an agreement shall be

made between the Governments of the United Kingdom and the United States in the following terms :-

Duty-free treatment.

Paragraph 1 . The Government of the United Kingdom shall accord duty-free
treatment on entry into the United Kingdom of:

(a) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies qualified under Economic Cooperation Administration (hereinafter referred to as ECA) regulations and consigned to charitable organizations including United Kingdom branches of these agencies which have been or hereafter shall be approved by the Government of the United Kingdom .
(b) Relief packages originating in the United States and sent by parcel post or commercial channels addressed to an individual residing in the United Kingdom whether packed privately or by order placed with a commercial firm.

(c) Standard packs put up by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies or their approved agents, qualified under ECA regulations, to the order of individuals in the United States and sent for delivery addressed to individuals residing in the United Kingdom.
Paragraph 2. For the purposes of this Agreement :

(a) "relief goods" shall not include tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, or alcoholic liquors ;

62 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES - DEC. 1, 1948 3799

(b) "relief packages " shall not include goods other than foodstuffs , discarded apparel, medical supplies, or soap, and shall not exceed 22 lbs . gross weight ; and (c) "standard packs " shall contain only such articles which qualify under ECA regulations and are approved by the Government of the United Kingdom .

Paragraph S.
Transportation charges (as defined in paragraph 5 of Article IV Defrayal of trans-
of the Economic Cooperation Agreement) in the United Kingdom on portation charges. 62 Stat . , Pt . 2,
"reliefgoods", "relief packages " , and "standard packs ", which comply p. 2600.
with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above, shall be defrayed as
follows :

(a) The amount of terminal charges for shipments which are sent by United States parcel post addressed to individuals in the United Kingdom shall be computed by the United Kingdom postal services in the manner now or hereafter provided by the

Reimbursement for certain charges.

applicable agreements . Such charges shall be reimbursed to the United Kingdom postal service out of the special account provided for in Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agree-
ment (hereinafter referred to as the special account) and no 62 Stat . , Pt . 2, claim for such charges shall be made against the United States. p. 2599.

(b) With respect to shipments which are originally despatched from the United States by any regular established commercial channels and forwarded in the United Kingdom by an approved

agent of the shipper to the addressee by United Kingdom parcel post for delivery as parcels originating in the United Kingdom, such parcels not exceeding 15 lbs . gross weight shall be accepted by United Kingdom parcel post services without

payment of postal charges by such agent. The United Kingdom postal service shall be reimbursed for postal charges on such parcels out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation . Parcels exceeding 15 lbs. but not exceeding 22 lbs . gross weight are covered by sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph .

(c) With respect to shipments which are originally despatched from the United States by any commercial channel and forwarded in the United Kingdom by an approved agent of the

shipper to the addressee by United Kingdom carrier, the United Kingdom shall reimburse such agent or United King-

dom carrier, as the case may be, out of the special account

upon presentation of adequate documentation. (d) With respect to any charges incidental to transportation which
may be incurred by an agent of a shipper under sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of this paragraph, other than parcel post charges and carrier charges, such approved agent shall be reimbursed by the Government of the United Kingdom out of the special

account upon presentation of adequate documentation .

3800

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Monthly statements.

Paragraph 4. The Government of the United Kingdom shall make payments out
of the special account for the purposes mentioned in paragraph 3

above, and shall submit to the ECA Mission in the United Kingdom

with a copy to the Controller, ECA Washington , monthly statements

of the amounts so expended in form satisfactory to the Government

of the United Kingdom and the said Mission , provided that each such

statement shall at least show total weight carried and charges there-

for, and adjustments shall be made to the special account if shown

to be required by ECA audit .

Paragraph 5.

Entry into force of

pars. 3 and 4.

So far as practicable effect shall be given to paragraphs 3 and 4 as

though they had come into force on April 3 , 1948.

Paragraph 6.

Territorial application of Agreement.

(a) The present Agreement shall, on the part of the Government

of the United Kingdom, apply to the United Kingdom of Great

Britain and Northern Ireland , and to any other territories (including the Channel Islands) for whose international relations the Govern-

ment of the United Kingdom is responsible to which it may be

extended by a notification addressed by the Government of the United Kingdom to the Government of the United States from the

date on which such notification is received by the Government of the United States.

(b) Nothing in the present Agreement shall be construed as imposing any obligation contrary to the terms of a Trusteeship Agreement in force in relation to any such territory. "United Kingdom ."
(c) For the purposes of the present Agreement the term "United Kingdom" means the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland (excluding the Channel Islands) and any territory to which the present Agreement shall have been extended under sub-paragraph
(a) of this paragraph and in respect of which such extension has not ceased in accordance with paragraph 7 (c) .

Entry into force; duration.

Paragraph 7. (a) The present Agreement shall come into force immediately.
Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and ( c) of this para-

graph and to such modification as may be agreed upon between the competent authorities of the Governments of the United States and

Termination .

the United Kingdom, it shall remain in force for the same period as the Economic Cooperation Agreement.
(b) The present Agreement may be terminated by six months' notice given in writing by either party to the other at any time.
(c) The Government of the United Kingdom shall have the right

by giving six months ' notice in writing to the Government of the United States to terminate the application of this Agreement to any

territory named in such notice to which it has been extended under sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 6 hereof.

2. If the above proposal is acceptable to the Government of the United Kingdom we have the honor further to propose that this

62 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES -DEC. 1 , 1948 3801
note and your reply to that effect shall constitute an Agreement on the above terms between the two Governments.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of our highest consideration.
J. C. HOLMES THOMAS K. FINLETTER The Right Honorable ERNEST BEVIN, M. P. , Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , Foreign Office, S.W. 1 .

The British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador and the Minister of the Economic Cooperation Administration

GENTLEMEN ,

FOREIGN OFFICE, S. W. 1 . 1st December, 1948.

I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your Note of the 1st December, 1948 , the text of which is as follows:-

Ante, p. 3798.

"We have the honour to propose that for the purpose of giving effect to Article VI, paragraph 2, read with Article IV, paragraph 5, of the Economic Co-operation Agreement between the Governments of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America, signed on 6th July, 1948, pp6.2260S2t,a2t50.0,. Pt 2, (hereinafter referred to as the Economic Co-operation Agreement) an agreement shall be made between the Governments of the United Kingdom and the United States in the following terms :-

Paragraph 1. The Government of the United Kingdom shall accord duty-free
treatment on entry into the United Kingdom of:

(a) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies qualified under Economic Co-operation Administration (hereinafter referred to as ECA) regulations and consigned to charitable organisations including United Kingdom branches of these agencies which have been or hereafter shall be approved by the Government of the United Kingdom.
(b) Relief packages originating in the United States and sent by parcel post or commercial channels addressed to an individual residing in the United Kingdom whether packed privately or by order placed with a commercial firm .
(c) Standard packs put up by United States voluntary non-profit relief agencies or their approved agents, qualified under ECA regulations, to the order of individuals in the United States and sent for delivery addressed to individuals residing in the United Kingdom.

3802

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Paragraph 2. For the purposes of this Agreement: -

(a) "relief goods" shall not include tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, or alcoholic liquors ;
(b) "relief packages " shall not include goods other than foodstuffs , discarded apparel, medical supplies or soap, and shall not exceed 22 lbs. gross weight ; and
(c) "standard packs" shall contain only such articles which qualify under ECA regulation and are approved by the Government of the United Kingdom.

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 2600.

Paragraph 3. Transportation charges (as defined in paragraph 5 of Article
IV of the Economic Co-operation Agreement) in the United Kingdom on " relief goods" , " relief packages" , and " standard packs" , which comply with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above , shall be defrayed as follows :-

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 2599.

(a) The amount of terminal charges for shipments which are sent by United States parcel post addressed to individuals in the United Kingdom shall be computed by the United Kingdom postal service in the manner now or hereafter provided by the applicable agreements . Such charges shall be reimbursed to the United Kingdom postal service out of the special account provided for in Article IV of the Economic Co-operation Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the special account) and no claim for such charges shall be made against the United States.

(b) With respect to shipments which are originally despatched from the United States by any regular established commercial channels and forwarded in the United Kingdom by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee by United Kingdom parcel post for delivery as parcels originating in the United Kingdom such parcels not exceeding 15 lbs. gross weight shall be accepted by United Kingdom parcel post services without payment of postal charges by such agent. The United Kingdom postal service shall be reimbursed for postal charges on such parcels out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation . Parcels exceeding 15 lbs . but not exceeding 22 lbs . gross weight are covered by sub- paragraph (c) of this paragraph.
(c) With respect to shipments which are originally despatched from the United States by any commercial channel and forwarded in the United Kingdom by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee by United Kingdom carrier, the United Kingdom shall reimburse such agent or United Kingdom carrier, as the case may be, out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

62 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM-RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES -DEC. 1, 1948 3803
(d) With respect to any charges incidental to transportation which may be incurred by an agent of a shipper under subparagraphs (b) and (c) of this paragraph, other than parcel post charges and carrier charges, such approved agent shall be reimbursed by the Government of the United Kingdom out of the special account upon presentation of adequate documentation .
Paragraph 4. The Government of the United Kingdom shall make payments
out of the special account for the purposes mentioned in paragraph 3 above, and shall submit to the ECA Mission in the United Kingdom with a copy to the Controller, ECA Washington, monthly statements of the amounts so expended in form satisfactory to the Government of the United Kingdom and the said Mission, provided that each such statement shall at least show total weight carried and charges therefor and adjustments shall be made to the special account if shown to be required by ECA audit .
Paragraph 5. So far as practicable effect shall be given to paragraphs 3 and
4 as though they had come into force on 3rd April, 1948 .
Paragraph 6. (a) The present Agreement shall , on the part of the Government of the United Kingdom, apply to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and to any other territories (including the Channel Islands) for whose international relations the Government of the United Kingdom is responsible to which it may be extended by a notification addressed by the Government of the United Kingdom to the Government of the United States from the date on which such notification is received by the Government of the United States . (b) Nothing in the present agreement shall be construed as imposing any obligation contrary to the terms of a Trusteeship Agreement in force in relation to any such territory. (c) For the purposes of the present Agreement, the term "United Kingdom" means the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (excluding the Channel Islands) and any territory to which the present Agreement shall have been extended under sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph and in respect of which such extension has not ceased in accordance with paragraph 7 (c) .
Paragraph 7. (a) The present Agreement shall come into force immediately. Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of this paragraph and to such modification as may be agreed upon between the competent authorities of the Governments of the United States and the United Kingdom, it shall remain in force for the same period as the Economic Co-operation Agreement .
68706-52- PT. III - 76

3804

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
(b) The present Agreement may be terminated by six months' notice given in writing by either party to the other at any time. (c) The Government to the United Kingdom shall have the right by giving six months ' notice in writing to the Government of the United States to terminate the application of this Agreement to any territory named in such notice to which it has been extended under sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 6 hereof. 2. If the above proposal is acceptable to the Government of the United Kingdom we have the honour further to propose that this note and Your Excellency's reply to that effect shall constitute an
Agreement on the above terms between the two Governments".
2. The terms set out in the Note are acceptable to the Government of the United Kingdom and I have the honour to confirm that your note and this reply shall constitute an Agreement between the two Governments on the above terms .
I have the honour to be , with the highest consideration, Your obedient Servant , (For the Secretary of State) C. P. MAYHEW.
His Excellency the Honourable LEWIS W. DOUGLAS, etc. , etc. , etc.
Mr. THOMAS K. FINLETTER, etc., etc., etc. 1, Grosvenor Square, W. 1.

62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION-DEC. 8, 20, 1948 3805

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting a United States Educational Foundation in the Philippines, amending the agreement of March 23, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Manila December 8 and 20, 1948; entered into force December 20, 1948 .

December 8, 20, 1948 [T. I. A. 8. 1910]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs

No. 2266 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, Manila, December 8, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to Article 5 of the Fulbright Agreement [¹ ] between the Government of the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines for the use of funds made available in accordance with the agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines for the sale of surplus war property, which is worded as follows :
"The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1880.
The Board.

shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of nine Directors

(hereinafter designated the 'Board') . "The principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the

Chief of Mission.

United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines ( hereinafter designated the ' Chief of Mission ' ) shall be Honorary Chairman of the Board. He shall have the power of appointment and removal of members of the Board at his discretion. The members

Members of Board.

of the Board shall be as follows : (a ) the Chief Public Affairs Officer

of the United States Embassy in the Philippines, Chairman ; (b) two other members of the Embassy staff, one of whom shall serve as treasurer; (c) two citizens of the United States of America, one representative of American business interests in the Philippines and one representative of American educational interests in the Philippines ; and (d ) four citizens of the Philippines, at least two of whom

shall be prominent in the field of education. "The six members specified in ( c) and ( d ) of the last preceding
paragraph shall be resident in the Philippines and shall serve from

the time of their appointment until the succeeding December 31 next

following such appointment. They shall be eligible for reappointment. The United States members shall be designated by the Chief of Mission ; the Philippines members by the Chief of Mission from a

list of names submitted by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines. Vacancies by reason of resignations, transfer of resi-

dence outside of the Philippines, expiration of term of service, or otherwise shall be filled in accordance with this procedure.

1 Signed Mar. 23, 1948.

3806

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Expenses.

"The Directors shall serve without compensation , but the Foundation is authorized to pay the necessary expenses of the Directors in attending meetings of the Board."

The Department of State has reconsidered its policy relating to the pattern of membership of the Board of Directors of USEFP and now

62 p. 1880Stat . , Pt . 2 , suggests the following amendment to Article 5 , which equalizes the . representation of our two countries on the Board and vests in the

The Board.

Philippine Government the right to appoint and remove its own representatives. Although the proposed amendment removes all specifications as to fields of interest to be represented by appointees, it is hoped to obtain as wide a representation as possible of private and governmental interests among the representatives of each country.
"The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation

shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of ten Directors

(hereinafter designated the 'Board' ) , five of whom shall be citizens of the United States of America and five of whom shall be citizens

of the Philippines. In addition , the principal officer in charge of the

Chief of Mission,

Diplomatic Mission of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines (hereinafter designated 'the Chief of Mission') shall be Honorary Chairman of the Board. He shall cast the decid-

Chairman of Board.

ing vote in the event of a tie vote by the Board and shall appoint the Chairman of the Board. The citizens of the United States of Amer-

ica on the Board, at least three of whom shall be officers of the United

States Foreign Service establishment in the Philippines, shall be appointed and removed by the Chief of Mission ; the citizens ofthe

Philippines on the Board shall be appointed and removed by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines.
"The Directors shall serve from the time of their appointment until one year from the following December 31 and shall be eligible

for reappointment . Vacancies by reason of resignation , transfer of residence outside the Philippines , expiration of term of service or otherwise, shall be filled in accordance with this procedure.

Expenses .

"The Directors shall serve without compensation but the Foundation is authorized to pay the necessary expenses of the Directors in attending the meetings of the Board."

Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency stating that the foregoing suggestion is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, the Government of the United States of America

will consider that the subject agreement has been so amended.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consid-

eration .

THOMAS H. LOCKETT

His Excellency ELPIDIO QUIRINO Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Republic of the Philippines.

Charge d'Affaires, a.i.

62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-U. S. EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION- DEC. 8, 20, 1948

3807

The Philippine Acting Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

SIR :

MANILA, December 20, 1948

I wish to acknowledge receipt of your note No. 2266 , dated December 8, 1948, which reads as follows :

Ante, p. 3805.

"I have the honor to refer to Article 5 of the Fulbright Agreement

between the Government of the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines for the use of funds made available in accordance with the agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines for

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 1880.

the sale of surplus war property, which is worded as follows :

"The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation

shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of nine Directors

(hereinafter designated the Board) .

"The principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the

United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines

(hereinafter designated the Chief of Mission ) shall be Honorary Chairman of the Board. He shall have the power of appointment and removal of members of the Board at his discretion. The

members of the Board shall be as follows : (a) the Chief Public Affairs Officer of the United States Embassy in the Philippines,

Chairman ; (b) two other members of the Embassy staff, one of whom shall serve as treasurer ; ( c ) two citizens of the United States of America, one representative of American business interests in the Philippines and one representative of American educational interests in the Philippines ; and ( d ) four citizens of the Philippines, at least two of whom shall be prominent in the field of education.

'The six members specified in ( c) and ( d ) of the last preceding paragraph shall be resident in the Philippines and shall serve from the time of their appointment until the succeeding December 31 next following such appointment. They shall be eligible for reappointment. The United States members shall be designated by the Chief of Mission ; the Philippines members by the Chief of Mission from a list of names submitted by the Government of the

Republic of the Philippines. Vacancies by reason of resignations, transfer of residence outside of the Philippines, expiration of term of service, or otherwise shall be filled in accordance with this procedure.
"The Directors shall serve without compensation, but the Foundation is authorized to pay the necessary expenses of the

Directors in attending meetings of the Board.'

"The Department of State has reconsidered its policy relating to
the pattern of membership of the Board of Directors of USEFP and 62 Stat . , Pt . 2,
now suggests the following amendment to Article 5, which equalizes p. 1880.

3808

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

the representation of our two countries on the Board and vests in the Philippine Government the right to appoint and remove its own representatives. Although the proposed amendment removes all specifications as to fields of interest to be represented by appointees, it is hoped to obtain as wide a representation as possible of private and governmental interests among the representatives of each country.
"The management and direction of the affairs of the Foundation shall be vested in a Board of Directors consisting of ten Directors (hereinafter designated the Board ) , five of whom shall be citizens of the United States of America and five of whom shall be citizens
of the Philippines. In addition, the principal officer in charge of the Diplomatic Mission of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines (hereinafter designated the Chief of Mission) shall be Honorary Chairman of the Board. He shall cast the deciding vote in the event of a tie vote by the Board and shall appoint the Chairman of the Board. The citizens of the United States of America on the Board, at least three of whom shall be officers of the United States Foreign Service establishment in the Philippines, shall be appointed and removed by the Chiefof Mission ; the citizens of the Philippines on the Board shall be
appointed and removed by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines.
"The Directors shall serve from the time of their appointment until one year from the following December 31 and shall be eligible for reappointment. Vacancies by reason of resignation, transfer of residence outside the Philippines , expiration of term of service or otherwise, shall be filled in accordance with this procedure.
"The Directors shall serve without compensation but the Foundation is authorized to pay the necessary expenses of the Directors in attending the meetings of the Board.'

"Upon the receipt of a note from Your Excellency stating that the foregoing suggestion is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, the Government of the United States of America will consider that the subject agreement has been so amended."

62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 1880.

and to inform you that the suggested amendment to Article 5 of the Fulbright Agreement, quoted therein , is acceptable to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, and, therefore, as of this date, subject agreement may be considered so amended.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration. FELINO NERI Felino Neri

The Honorable THOMAS H. LOCKETT Charge d'Affaires ad interim United States Embassy Manila

Acting Undersecretary

62 STAT. ] ITALY-RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES-NOV. 26, 1948

3809

Agreement and understanding between the United States of America and Italy respecting duty-free entry and payment of transportation charges on relief supplies and packages for Italy. Effected by exchanges of notes signed at Rome November 26, 1948; entered into force November 26, 1948.

November 26, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1914]

The American Ambassador to the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 2131

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA November 26, 1948

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to paragraph 2 , Article VI and paragraph

5 , Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between Italy

and the United States of America, signed in Rome on June 28 , 1948.

62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , pp. 2436, 2432,

In accordance with the above-mentioned provisions and pursuant

to exchanges of views between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and

the Italian Delegation for European Economic Cooperation on the

one hand, and the Embassy of the United States of America and the

Economic Cooperation Administration mission in Rome on the other, it is understood that:

(1 ) The Italian Government, pursuant to paragraph 2 , Article VI, meDnutty-free treat-

shall admit under duty-free treatment :

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 2436.

(a) Supplies of relief goods donated to or purchased by United

States voluntary non-profit relief agencies qualified under Eca

regulations, such supplies to be distributed in accordance with

instructions of such agencies , by and consigned to ENDSI (Ente Nazionale Distribuzione Soccorsi in Italia) , an organiza-

tion created by Legislative Decree of the Lieutenant General, dated September 28 , 1944 , Official Gazette No. 62 of September 30, 1944, for the purpose of distributing relief goods. "Relief

Goods " shall be construed as meaning supplies or products

intended for relief purposes , excluding nonessential luxury items .

(b) Standard relief parcels supplied by CARE (Cooperative for American Remittances to Europe) , or by such similar agencies as may be mutually agreed upon . (c) Gift parcels labelled " U.S.A. Gift Parcel ", shipped by parcel post from individuals in the United States of America, its territories and insular possessions , to individuals residing in Italy, packed in accordance with current international postal regulations, weight not to exceed 10 kilograms gross ; limited to food, but not more than 2 kilograms coffee, and not more than 3 kilograms sugar ; clothing and clothing materials , shoes and

3810

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

shoemaking materials, and medical and health supplies excluding narcotics, alkaloids and saccarine ; in such quantities as to clearly indicate usage limited to addressee and family and limited to one parcel per month for each individual Italian addressee.

Transportation costs.
62 Stat . , Pt . 2 ,
p. 2432.

(d) Gift parcels labelled " U.S.A. Gift Parcel" , shipped other than by parcel post , from individuals, partnerships, corporations or associations in the United States, its territories and insular possessions, addressed to individuals residing in Italy, provided that the weight , content and other limitations as given in (c) above shall apply and provided further that ENDSI is designated as the receiving agency and acts as distribution agent. (2) As regards transportation costs within Italy referred to in paragraph 5 , Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement, it is understood that:

Reimbursement of charges; monthly re-
port.

(a) Relief goods , standard relief parcels and packages admitted duty free under (1 ) a , b and d above shall be received, warehoused, handled and transported to designated recipient without charge by ENDSI to donor, recipient or relief agency . All costs for such services shall be borne by ENDSI with funds made available by the Italian Government , and not from the Special Account (Lire Fund) .
(b) With respect to gift parcels referred to in ( 1) c above, the Italian Postal Service shall determine its charges within Italy at the rates established by the international postal system. The Italian Postal Service shall be reimbursed for such charges from the Special Account (Lire Fund) . (3) The Italian Government shall reimburse the Italian Postal Service for its charges under (2) b above from the Special Account, and shall submit monthly to the ECA mission- copy to the ECA Controller in Washington-a report of the amounts reimbursed , in a form satisfactory to the Italian Government
and to the ECA mission , it being understood that each of such reports shall specify the total weight transported and charges therefor. If any adjustment in the amount of such reimbursements is necessary as a result of ECA audit, such adjustment shall be made promptly.

Effectivity .

(4) With regard to duty-free treatment, the terms of this note shall take effect immediately . With regard to the defrayment of postal charges for gift parcels, the terms of this note shall take effect after notification has been given the Italian Government by the U. S. Government that postage has been reduced and charges therefor may then be paid from the special account. However, with respect to the provisions in (2) a above, the terms of this note shall be effective retroactively to July 1 , 1948.

If the foregoing is in accord with the understanding of the Italian Government , I would appreciate Your Excellency's so advising me. The two notes then exchanged will constitute agreement by our two Governments in the premises.

62 STAT.] ITALY- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- NOV. 26, 1948
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my highest consideration .
JAMES CLEMENT DUNN His Excellency
Count CARLO SFORZA , Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rome.

The Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

IL MINISTRO DEGLI AFFARI ESTERI

n.44/7350/605

ECCELLENZA,

ROMA, 26 novembre 1948

ho l'onore di riferirmi alla Nota di V. E. n . 2131 del 26 novembre

1948 con la quale Ella ha voluto comunicarmi quanto segue:

"Ho l'onore di riferirmi al paragrafo 2 dell'Art. 6 , e al paragrafo 5 dell'Art. 4 dell'Accordo di Cooperazione Economica fra l'Italia e gli Stati Uniti d'America firmato in Roma il 28 giugno 1948 .
In conformità alle disposizioni di cui ai suddetti paragrafi e sulla base degli scambi di vedute fra il Ministero degli Affari Esteri e la Delegazione della Cooperazione Economica Europea da una parte e l'Ambasciata degli Stati Uniti d'America e la Missione dell'Amministrazione per la Cooperazione Economica in Roma dall'altra, resta inteso quanto segue:
-1) il Governo italiano, in conformità al paragrafo 2 dell'Art . 6 , ammetterà in franchigia doganale :

a) - le merci assistenziali donate a o acquistate da organizzazioni assistenziali volontarie statunitensi non aventi scopo di lucro e qualificate dalle norme dell'ECA. Tali merci saranno consegnate, per essere distribuite secondo le intenzioni delle organizzazioni stesse, all'E.N.D.S.I. (Ente Nazionale Distribuzione Soccorsi in Italia) , organismo creato, allo scopo di distribuire i soccorsi, con il D.L.L. del 28 settembre 1944 n. 220, pubblicato sul n. 62 della Gazzetta Ufficiale del 30 settembre 1944. Per merci assistenziali debbono intendersi merci o prodotti dei quali possa giustificarsi un fine di assistenza con l'esclusione quindi dei prodotti voluttuari.
b) - I pacchi tipo assistenziali forniti dalla C.A.R.E. (Cooperativa per gli invii americani in Europa) o da simili organizzazioni che siano eventualmente riconosciute di comune accordo .

c) - Pacchi dono che portino l'etichetta "U.S.A. Gift Parcel" (Pacco postale dono U.S.A. ) spediti per posta da persone singole negli Stati Uniti d'America, nei suoi territori o possedimenti insulari, a persone singole residenti in Italia, confezionati secondo le vigenti norme postali internazionali . Il peso lordo di ogni pacco non deve superare i 10 kg. , ed il contenuto deve essere limitato : a generi alimentari, ma con non più di kg. 2 di caffè e kg. 3 di zucchero ; a vestiario e materiale per vestiario ; a calzature, accessori di calzature e

3811

3812

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
parti di calzature ; ed a medicinali e prodotti igienici ; in quantità tali che sia chiaro che l'uso è limitato al destinatario e famiglia . (Sono esclusi gli alcaloidi , gli stupefacenti e la saccarina) . Ciascun destinatario italiano non potrà ricevere mensilmente più di un pacco .
d) - Pacchi dono che portino l'etichetta "U. S. A. Gift Package" (Pacco dono U.S.A. ) spediti in diverso modo che per posta da persone singole, società , compagnie e associazioni negli Stati Uniti, suoi territori o possedimenti insulari , a persone residenti in Italia a condizione che siano osservate le limitazioni in numero , peso , contenuto e ogni altra indicata nel paragrafo c ) di cui sopra e purchè l'E.N.D.S.I . sia designata come Ente ricevente e di distribuzione.
2 ) Per quanto riguarda le spese di trasporto in Italia di cui al paragrafo 5 dell ' Art . 4 dell'Accordo per la Cooperazione Economica resta inteso che:
a) le merci assistenziali , i pacchi tipo e gli altri pacchi assistenziali ammessi in franchigia doganale come dal paragrafo 1 , punti a) b) e d) sopra indicati , saranno ricevuti , immagazzinati , trasportati e distribuiti a cura dell ' E.N.D.S.I. senza alcun onere per il donatore, il
destinatario o l'Ente assistenziale . Tutti gli oneri per tali servizi saranno sostenuti dall ' E.N.D.S.I. con fondi messi a sua disposizione dal Governo Italiano e non dal fondo speciale.
b) - Per quanto riguarda i pacchi dono di cui al paragrafo 1 c) sopra indicato , l'Amministrazione postale italiana stabilirà i diritti postali per il trasporto in Italia ai tassi previsti dagli Accordi postali internazionali . L'Amministrazione delle Poste Italiane sarà rimborsata dell'importo di tali diritti postali sul "Fondo Speciale" (Fondo lire).
3) Il Governo italiano , nel rimborsare l'Amministrazione italiana delle Poste dei suoi diritti postali come dal paragrafo 2 b ) sul conto speciale, presenterà mensilmente alla Missione ECA in duplice copia (di cui una per il Controllore dell'EcA a Washington ) un resoconto degli importi rimborsati in una forma concordata tra il Governo italiano e la Missione ECA. Rimane inteso che ognuno di tali resoconti preciserà il peso totale trasportato ed i relativi diritti postali . Ove si renda necessaria una qualsiasi rettifica per quanto riguarda l'ammontare di tali rimborsi , in base alle risultanze contabili dell'Eca , si procederà prontamente a tali rettifiche.
4 ) - Per ciò che concerne la franchigia doganale , i termini della presente Nota avranno immediato effetto . Per ciò che concerne il rimborso delle spese postali per i pacchi dono le disposizioni della presente Nota andranno in vigore non appena il Governo italiano riceva notizia dal Governo degli Stati Uniti che le tariffe postali sono state ridotte e che pertanto l'importo dei diritti postali potrà essere pagato sul "Fondo speciale" . Tuttavia per quanto riguarda le disposizioni di cui al paragrafo 2 a ) sopra indicato , i termini della presente Nota avranno effetto retroattivo a datare dal 1 ° luglio 1948 ".
Se quanto precede è in armonia con l'intendimento del Governo italiano gradirei che V. E. volesse darmene comunicazione. Le due

62 STAT. ] ITALY- RELIEF SUPPLIES AND PACKAGES- NOV. 26, 1948
Note così scambiate costituiranno un accordo in materia fra i nostri due Governi".
Ho l'onore di comunicarLe che il Governo italiano concorda su quanto precede e che il presente scambio di Note costituisce un accordo fra i nostri due Governi .
Voglia gradire, Eccellenza , gli atti della mia più alta considerazione . SFORZA
S. E. JAMES CLEMENT DUNN Ambasciatore degli Stati Uniti d'America Roma

3813

Translation

THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

No. 44/7350/005

EXCELLENCY:

ROME, November 26, 1948

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's Note No. 2131 of November 26, 1948 , in which you were good enough to inform me as follows:

Ante, p. 3809.

[For the English language text of this note, as signed , see p . 3809. ]

I have the honor to inform you that the Italian Government is in agreement on the foregoing and that the present exchange of Notes constitutes an agreement between our two Governments .
Accept, Excellency , the assurances of my highest consideration . SFORZA
His Excellency JAMES CLEMENT DUNN Ambassador of the United States of America Rome

The American Ambassador to the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 2132

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA November 26, 1948

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to your Excellency's Note No. 44/7350/605 dated November 26 with regard to the duty-free treatment and inland transportation of certain supplies of relief goods , relief parcels and gift packages.

It is the understanding of my Government that nothing in that Note shall change the present status of relations between the United States voluntary relief agencies and A.A.I. (Amministrazione Aiuti Internazionali) , the organization created by Legislative Decree No. 5 of January 4 , 1946, Official Gazette No. 25 of January 30 , 1946 , and Legislative Decree No. 1006 of September 19 , 1947 , Official Gazette No. 229 of October 6 , 1947.

3814

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my highest con-

sideration .

JAMES CLEMENT Dunn

His Excellency Count CARLO SFORZA ,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rome.

The Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

IL MINISTRO DEGLI AFFARI ESTERI

n.44/7351/606

ECCELLENZA ,

ROMA, 26 novembre 1948

ho l'onore di riferirmi alla Nota di V. E. n.2132 del 26 novembre

1948 con la quale Ella ha voluto comunicarmi quanto segue:

"Ho l'onore di riferirmi all Nota di V.E. n.44/7350/605 del 26 novem-

bre 1948 relativa alla franchigia doganale e al trasporto interno di alcune forniture di generi di assistenza , pacchi assistenziali e pacchi dono .

E' intendimento del mio Governo che niente della Nota suddetta

verrà a modificare l'attuale stato delle relazioni tra le Organizzazioni assistenziali volontarie degli Stati Uniti e l'A.A.I. (Amministrazione

per gli Aiuti Internazionali) , Organismo creato in base al Decreto Legislativo n.5 del 4 gennaio 1946 , Gazzetta Ufficiale n.25 del 30

gennaio 1946 , e Decreto Legislativo n.1006 del 19 settembre 1947, Gazzetta Ufficiale n.229 del 6 ottobre 1947".

Ho l'onore di comunicarLe che il Governo italiano è d'accordo su

quanto precede.

Voglia gradire, Eccellenza , gli atti della mia più alta considerazione.

S. E. JAMES CLEMENT DUNN

SFORZA

Ambasciatore degli Stati Uniti d'America Roma

Translation

THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

No. 44/7351/606

EXCELLENCY :

ROME, November 26, 1948

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's Note No. 2132 of November 26 , 1948 , in which you were good enough to inform me as follows :

[For the English language text of this note, as signed , see p. 3813. ]
I have the honor to inform you that the Italian Government is in agreement on the foregoing.
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration. SFORZA
His Excellency JAMES CLEMENT DUNN
Ambassador of the United States of America Rome

62 STAT. ]

ITALY-ECONOMIC COOPERATION_Sept. 28, 11994488 Oct. 2,

3815

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting economic cooperation under Public Law 472, 80th Congress, amending the agreement of June 28, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rome September 28 and October 2, 1948; entered into force October 2, 1948.

September 28, and October 2, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1917]

The American Ambassador to the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs

F. O. No. 1904

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

EXCELLENCY,

I have the honor to refer to the Economic Cooperation Agreement

between the United States of America and Italy, which was signed at
62 Stat . , Pt . 2, Rome on June 28 , 1948 , and, under the instructions of my Govern- p. 2421.

ment, to suggest that the following interpretation be accepted and

agreed upon as representing the intent of the agreement : In Article XII , paragraph 2 , sub-paragraph (b) , the words ". ·
provided, however, that Article V and paragraph 3 of Article VII

62 Stat . , Pt . 2,
p. 2444. 62 Stat . , Pt . 2 ,
pp. 2434 and 2438 .

shall remain in effect until two years after the date of such notice of

intention to terminate, but not later than July 30 , 1953. " , ['] and the

corresponding words in the Italian text, shall be understood as apply-

ing to and modifying both sub-paragraph (a) and sub-paragraph (b) of Article XII , paragraph 2.
Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurance of my highest consideration .

62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 2442.

JAMES CLEMENT DUNN

ROME, September 28, 1948.

His Excellency Count CARLO SFORZA ,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rome.

The Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
IL MINISTRO DEGLI AFFARI ESTERI 04794/448

ECCELLENZA,

ROMA, 2 ottobre 1948

ho l'onore di accusare ricevuta della nota n. 1904 in data 28 settembre 1948.

In detta nota, relativa all'Accordo di Cooperazione Economica fra l'Italia e gli Stati Uniti firmato a Roma il 28 giugno 1948 , l'Eccellenza

¹ The correct date is "June 30, 1953."

3816

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Vostra suggerisce una precisazione di interpretazione, a proposito dell'Articolo XII di quell'Accordo .
Precisamente che le parole del paragrafo 2 , lettera b)/ ". .. a condizione, tuttavia, che l'art . V ed il paragrafo 3 dell'art . VII rimangano in vigore sino a due anni dopo la data di tale notifica dell'intenzione di porre termine all'accordo , ma non oltre il 30 giugno 1953 ."/si riferiscano tanto alla lettera a) quanto alla lettera b) .
Ho l'onore di comunicarLe che il Governo italiano concorda circa tale interpretazione.
Colgo l'occasione per ricambiare all'Eccellenza Vostra i sensi della più alta considerazione.
SFORZA Sua Eccellenza
JAMES CLEMENT DUNN Ambasciatore degli Stati Uniti d'America Roma

Translation

THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS 04794/448

ROME, October 2, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of note No. 1904 dated September 28 , 1948.
In the said note, with reference to the Economic Cooperation Agreement between Italy and the United States of America, which was

p.622421S. tat . , Pt . 2 ,
62 Stat . , Pt . 2, p. 2444.

signed at Rome on June 28 , 1948 , Your Excellency suggests an inter-
pretation of Article XII of that Agreement:
Specifically, that the words of paragraph 2 , sub-paragraph (b), 66
provided , however, that Article V and paragraph 3 of Article

pp6.2243S4taantd.,24P38t. . 2. VII shall remain in effect until two years after the date of such notice of intention to terminate the agreement, but not later than June 30,

1953 " apply to both sub-paragraph (a) and sub-paragraph (b) .

I have the honor to inform you that the Italian Government is in

agreement with that interpretation.

I avail myself of the occasion to renew to Your Excellency the

assurances of my highest consideration .

SFORZA

His Excellency JAMES CLEMENT DUNN Ambassador of the United States of America Rome

62 STAT. ] KOREA- MILITARY AND SECURITY MEASURES- AUG. 24, 1948

3817

Interim agreement between the United States of America and Korea respecting military and security measures effective until completion of the withdrawal of United States forces from Korea. Signed at Seoul August 24 , 1948; entered into force August 24, 1948.

August 24, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1918]

SEOUL, KOREA 24 August 1948
EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE COMMANDING GENERAL, UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES IN KOREA, CONCERNING INTERIM MILITARY AND SECURITY MATTERS DURING THE TRANSITIONAL PERIOD

PREAMBLE

Whereas, the President of the Republic of Korea and the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, exchanged notes on August 9, 1948, [ ¹ ] and August 11 , 1948, [ ¹ ] respectively, concerning the progressive and orderly transfer of governmental functions from the Commanding General of United States Army Forces in Korea to the Government of the Republic of Korea leading to the withdrawal of United States forces from Korea and the termination of the United States Occupation ;
Whereas, the President of the Republic of Korea and the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, have appointed representatives to consult for the purpose of facilitating the progressive and orderly transfer of governmental responsibility, and of facilitating arrangements for the withdrawal of forces under the command of the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea ;
Whereas, the consultations between the representatives of the President of the Republic of Korea and of the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea have revealed the common interest of the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea in maintaining the security of Korea, and in continuing the organization , training and equipping of Security Forces of the Republic of Korea now in being, until the completion of the withdrawal of United States forces ;
Whereas, it is desirable to establish an agreed basis for accomplishing the common military and security requirements which were revealed by the consultations between the representatives of the President of the Republic of Korea and of the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea ; and
1 Not printed.

3818

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Whereas, Article 61 of the Constitution of the Republic of Korea provides that the President of the Republic of Korea shall be the Commander- in-Chief of the National Military Forces and that the organization and formation of the military forces shall be determined in accordance with law;
Therefore, the President of the Republic of Korea in his dual capacity of Chief Executive of the Republic of Korea and Commander-inChief of the National Military Forces and the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, agree upon the following military and security measures to be effective until the completion of the withdrawal of United States forces from Korea ;

ARTICLE I

Interim duties of Commanding Gen-
eArralm, yUFnoricteseidn KSotraeteas.

The Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, agrees that, pursuant to directives from his government and within his capabilities, he will continue to organize, train and equip the Security forces of the Republic of Korea now in being, provided that his obligation shall cease upon the completion of withdrawal from Korea of forces under his command.

ARTICLE II

Transfer of responsibility .

The Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, agrees to transfer to the Government of the Republic of Korea progressively, and as rapidly as he deems compatible with common security, responsibility for the direction of the Security Forces of the Republic of Korea, consisting of all Police, Coast Guard and Con-

stabulary units now in being , and the President of the Republic of Korea agrees to accept progressively, for the Government of the Republic of Korea, responsibility for the direction of these forces. It SeCcounrittryolForofcesK.orean is further agreed that the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, shall retain until completion of withdrawal of United States Army Forces as contemplated in par 4 ( c) of Resolution No. II passed by the United Nations General Assembly 14 November 1948 [1] (which reads as follows : " ( c) arrange with the occupying powers for the complete withdrawal from Korea of their armed forces

as early as practicable and if possible within 90 days".) the authority to exercise such over-all operational control of Security Forces of the

Republic of Korea (including the Constabulary and Coast Guard and such National Police detachments as may be stationed in critical areas) as he deems necessary in the interests of common security, or to

facilitate the organization , training and equipping of the Security Forces of the Republic of Korea. The provisions of this article shall not interfere with the sovereign rights of the Government of the Republic of Korea in the administration of the Korean Security Forces, the screening of their personnel to eliminate enemies of the

1 The resolution mentioned, No. 112 (II) , was passed Nov. 14, 1947 (United Nations, Official Records of the Second Session of the General Assembly: Resolutions, 16 September-29 November 1947 , p. 18. Lake Success, 1948. U. N. doc . A/519).

62 STAT. ] KOREA- MILITARY AND SECURITY MEASURES-AUG. 24, 1948

3819

Government of the Republic of Korea, the selection of recruits to fill the ranks of existing or future units and the formation of such additional Korean Security Forces as may be provided by law in accordance with the provisions of Article 61 of the Constitution of the Republic of Korea.
ARTICLE III
Control over vital Pursuant to the provisions of the note transmitted by the President areas and facilities. of the Republic of Korea to the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, on August 9, 1948 , the President of the Republic of Korea agrees that the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, shall retain control over areas and facilities of vital importance (such as ports, camps, railways, lines of communication, airfields , etc. ) which he deems necessary in order to accomplish the transfer of authority to the Government of the Republic of Korea and the withdrawal of United States occupation forces from Korea in accordance with the United Nations General Assembly Resolution on Korea. The Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea agrees to list for the Government of the Republic of Korea as soon as practicable those areas and facilities as described above currently in use by his forces, and to keep the Government informed of
Jurisdiction over all changes therein. It is further agreed that the Commanding Gen- certain individuals. eral, United States Army Forces in Korea, shall retain exclusive jurisdiction over the personnel of his command, both military and civilian , including their dependents, whose conduct as individuals shall be in keeping with pertinent laws of the Republic of Korea. It is further agreed that any individuals under the jurisdiction of the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, as described above, who may be apprehended by law enforcement agencies of the Govern-
ment of the Republic of Korea shall be immediately turned over to the custody and control of the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea , and that any individuals not under the jurisdiction of the Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea, who may be apprehended in acts detrimental to the security of personnel or property under his jurisdiction , shall be immediately turned over to the custody and control of the Government of the Republic of Korea.

ARTICLE IV
Determination of It is agreed between the President of the Republic of Korea and the details oftransfer. Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea , that the details for accomplishing the progressive and orderly transfer of responsibility for all Korean Security Forces to the Government of the Republic of Korea in accordance with the principles herein set forth in this interim agreement shall be determined between appropriate officials of the Government of the Republic of Korea and of the United States Army Forces in Korea and the transfer of responsibility for the Korean Security Forces to the Government of the Republic of Korea shall begin at the earliest practicable time.

3820

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

ARTICLE V

Registration of agreement .
Prevailing text.

This agreement shall be registered with the Government of the United States of America and with the Government of the Republic of Korea, in duplicate in the English and Korean languages, at Seoul, Korea, this 24 day of August, 1948. The English text and the Korean text shall have equal force, but in the case of divergence the English text shall prevail.

SYNGMAN RHEE

[ SEAL]

President of the Republic of Korea JOHN R HODGE Lt Gen USA

[ SEAL ]

Commanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea

62 STAT. ] KOREA-MILITARY AND SECURITY MEASURES-AUG. 24, 1948

3821

    
                                 
      

              
              

| 





       



   

3822

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

 -  

      

  



               

            

 







    



   

        

   

)#





       

             
·  .     q  

62 STAT. ] KOREA-MILITARY AND SECURITY MEASURES-AUG. 24, 1948

3823

              

    

    

 

               

   

       

             #   





    

1.     
HE OFFICIAL
XXI V CORPS

K000 
VIRE
 Hidge

1 Syngman Rhee. * John R Hodge.

3824

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

November 9, 12, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1926]

Agreement between the United States of America andthe United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland respecting passport visa fees. Effected by exchange of notes signed at London November 9 and 12, 1948; entered into force November 12 , 1948.

The British Minister of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

No. UR 7266/6229/G

FOREIGN OFFICE, S. W. 1. 9th November, 1948.

SIR, I have the honour to inform you that, with a view to facilitating the
movement of citizens of the United States of America to this country, His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom are prepared to abolish the visa requirement for United States citizens travelling to the United Kingdom.
2. Accordingly, on and after the 12th November, United States citizens will be free to travel from any place whatever to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland without the necessity of obtaining a visa , provided that they are furnished with valid United States passports. The competent British officials are being instructed in this sense, and it is proposed to release to the Press a joint Foreign Office and Home Office announcement on the same date. I should be grateful if, on the American side, any announcement of
this news could be similarly delayed, so as to allow time for the new procedure to be introduced smoothly.
3. You will appreciate that the abolition of the visa requirement does not exempt United States citizens coming to the United Kingdom from the necessity of complying with the laws and regulations of the United Kingdom concerning the entry, residence (temporary or permanent ) and employment or occupation of foreigners, and travellers who are unable to satisfy the immigration authorities that they comply with these laws and regulations are liable to be refused
leave to enter or land.
4. I am conveying this information to you in the confident belief that the action we are taking will be for the mutual benefit of our two countries. I would at the same time express the hope of His Majesty's Government that, as a measure of reciprocity, the United States Government will give the greatest possible relief from United States visa charges and formalities to British subjects who are bona fide

62 STAT. ] UNITED KINGDOM- PASSPORT VISA FEES- NOV. 9, 12, 1948

non-immigrants within the meaning of the immigration laws of the United States.

I have the honour to be with high consideration, Sir, Your obedient Servant,

Mr. JULIUS C. HOLMES,

(For Mr. McNeil) ROGER MAKINS

etc., etc., etc.,

1, Grosvenor Square, W. 1.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the British Minister of State for Foreign Affairs

No. 3496

AMERICAN EMBASSY London, November 12, 1948

SIR :

I have the honor to acknowledge, with deep appreciation, the receipt of your note, No. UR 7266/6229/G, dated November 9 , 1948, informing me that His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom has decided , effective November 12, 1948, to abolish the visa requirement for United States citizens travelling to the United Kingdom.
The Department of State was informed immediately upon receipt of the note under reference, of this gracious gesture of His Majesty's Government, and the Embassy has now been notified that the United States Government - effective November 12 - will grant to British subjects resident in the United Kingdom, in possession of valid British passports, who are eligible to enter the United States as bona fide
non-immigrants, gratis passport visas, and in cases of temporary visitors, such visas may be made valid for entries over a period of 24 months, provided the passport concerned remains valid for that period. The same arrangement will be put into effect outside the United Kingdom for British subjects proceeding to the United States as temporary visitors, who are resident within the United Kingdom, but who are temporarily absent therefrom, as soon as American Diplomatic and Consular officers can be notified.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. JULIUS C. HOLMES
The Right Honorable H. MCNEIL, M. P., Minister of State, Foreign Office, London, S. W. 1

3825

3826

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

February 27, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1930]

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting a mutual aid settlement , implementing the agreement of May 28 , 1946. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington February 27 , 1948 ; entered into force February 27, 1948.

The Secretary of State to the French Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

WASHINGTON

February 27, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

Expenditures of the U. S. Armed Forces in
Fovrearnsceeas atenrdritoFrrieesn. ch

I have the honor to refer to the recent conversations between representatives of the Government of the United States of America and
representatives of the Government of the French Republic, regard-

ing expenditures of the United States Armed Forces in France and

French overseas territories, and to state that the Government of the

United States of America is prepared to give effect to an agreement

in the following terms :

Settlement of lendlease, reciprocal aid, etc.

1. Reference is made to the "Declaration made in Paris by the President of the Provisional Government of the French Republic and in Washington by the President of the United States on May 28,

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 4216.

1946", which stated that representatives of the respective governments had met together in Washington and had discussed important economic and financial problems of common interest, among which

Troop pay and procurement.

was the settlement of lend-lease, reciprocal aid and other accounts. 2. By a "Memorandum of Understanding dated May 28, 1946,
between the Government of the United States of America and the

Provisional Government of the French Republic Regarding Settle-

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 4175.

ment for Lend-Lease, Reciprocal Aid, Surplus Property, and Claims", arrangements and procedures for the settlement of past and future troop pay and procurement of United States Armed Forces in France

and French overseas territories were agreed upon. These arrange-

ments were incorporated in a "Joint United States-French Report of the Troop Pay and United States Armed Forces Procurement Sub-

Committee", and a "Memorandum of Agreement Between the Government of the United States and the Provisional Government of the

61 Stat . , Pt . 4 , p. 4206.

French Republic Regarding Expenditures of the United States Armed Forces in French Territory".
3. The aforementioned report contained an estimate with respect to obligations of the United States Armed Forces for procurement through the French authorities (AFA) from September 2, 1945 through December 25, 1945 in the amount of $100 million. In addi tion, the report contained an estimate of United States Army procurement in France from December 26, 1945 through March 31 , 1946 in the amount of $20 million.

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- FEB. 27, 1948

3827

4. By the "Memorandum of Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Provisional Government of

the French Republic Regarding Expenditures of United States Armed Forces in France and French Overseas Territories", it was agreed that goods and services procured by the United States Armed Forces

61 Stat . , Pt. 4 p. 4206.

before the termination of reciprocal aid, when ineligible, and after

the termination of reciprocal aid, would be paid for on the basis of

the French authorities' presentation of appropriate documents in a

form acceptable to the United States Armed Forces as has been, or may be, agreed upon between the United States Armed Forces and the French authorities.
5. In accordance with the arrangements made on May 28 , 1946, appropriate vouchers and certifications by the French Government, acceptable to the United States, have been presented for payment by the United States Armed Forces. These vouchers, upon which payment has already been made, are summarized as follows :

Date Voucher Presented October 17, 1946 May 29, 1946 March 17, 1947 March 17, 1947

French Voucher $ 20, 567
81, 910, 500 18, 056, 625 19, 973, 250

Date Paid October 30, 1946 January 23, 1947 April 30, 1947 April 30, 1947

Payment by USAF
$ 20, 567 81, 910, 500 18, 056, 625 19, 973, 250

$119, 960, 942

$119, 960, 942

6. In accordance with an exchange of letters in October 1947 [¹] between Major General C. B. Magruder, United States Army, and Mr. Robert Schuman , French Minister of Finance, the French authorities presented, on January 31 , 1948, to the Department of the Army, a recapitulation of all claims for goods and services procured for or by the United States Armed Forces before the termination of reciprocal aid, when ineligible, as well as for the period September 2, 1945 through December 31 , 1946 , totaling $241,191,887. Of this amount, it is recognized that $2,889,616 covers procurement effected subsequent to December 31, 1946. This latter amount is outside the purview of this agreement and will be settled in accordance with paragraph eight below. Review of this recapitulation presented by the French Government of the total of the claims for the period September 2 , 1945 through December 25 , 1945, and for the period December 26 , 1945 through March 31 , 1946, indicates that the amounts of $ 100,000,-
61 Stat . , Pt. 4 000 and $20,000,000 set forth in the aforementioned Report were under- p. 4199. estimated. It has been agreed between the United States Government and the French Government that the provisions of the aforementioned Report and the aforementioned Memorandum of Agreement should be amended to take account of these considerations.
7. After considering all claims presented by the French Government against the United States Armed Forces and all claims presented by the United States Armed Forces against the French Government, and after examining the amounts originally estimated as payable by the United States Armed Forces to the French Government for

' Not printed. 68706-52 - PT. III- -77

3828

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

procurements of goods, services and facilities by them or on their behalf, following the reciprocal aid period through December 31, 1946, and the amounts finally claimed on both sides, it is agreed between the United States Government and the French Government that the following provisions covering goods , services and facilities furnished the United States Armed Forces will supersede the arrangements and procedures established on May 28, 1946, in so far as they are inconsistent therewith :

A. It is agreed that a payment of $87,000,000 will be made by the United States Army on behalf of the United States Armed Forces to the French Government for obligations during the period prior to September 2 , 1945, when ineligible for reciprocal aid, and for the period September 2 , 1945 through December 31 , 1946. The French Government agrees that this payment by the United States Armed Forces, together with any and all other amounts already paid by such Forces to the French Government, is in full, complete and final settlement for obligations during the above-mentioned periods. In this respect it is recognized that the United States Army is discharging other United States Government agencies' obligations included in the claims presented by the French Government on January 31, 1948, it being understood , however, that claims against United States Government agencies, other than the United States Armed Forces not included in the above-mentioned claims, are not cov ered by this agreement.

B. The United States Government agrees to pay forthwith to the French Government the amount stated in paragraph A above in payment of the aforementioned obligations. To the extent that the United States Department of the Army holds French francs in its official accounts, such French francs may be used in settlement of the aforementioned obligations at their dollar value at the time of their purchase.

C. The French Government agrees to pay to the United States Armed Forces upon the execution of this settlement, the sum of $1,452,312.86, covering certain transfers to France bythe United

States Army after March 1 , 1946 ($142,586.00) , V-Mail paper provided to France ($500,000.00 ) , the printing of certain Allied military currencies ( $559,726.86) and an amount estimated to be sufficient to cover certain transfers to the French Government

Waiving of claims against U. B. Armed Forces or U. 8. Gov-
ernment.

by the United States Navy ($250,000) . The last amount is subject to adjustment upon determination of the applicable French Government liability not otherwise provided for. D. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the within agreement, the French Government hereby acquits, and forever waives any and all claims against the United States Armed Forces or the United States Government,

i. Which have arisen or will arise against the United States Armed Forces as a result of or incident to its operations in

62 STAT. ] FRANCE- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- FEB. 27, 1948

3829

France or French overseas territories, and procurement by the United States Armed Forces of supplies, services, utilities,

facilities, goods and properties from or through the French Government, its nationals, or others in Continental France and in French overseas territories, prior to September 2 , 1945,

when ineligible for reciprocal aid, and during the period September 2, 1945 through December 31 , 1946. The payment by the United States Armed Forces to the French Government of the final amount stated in paragraph A above will discharge the United States Armed Forces of any and all liabilities pertaining thereto which have arisen or will arise in any place.

ii. Which have arisen or will arise out of completed , delivered, or cancelled portions of all contracts entered into prior to January 1 , 1947 in connection with the procurement referred to in the foregoing paragraph by representatives of the United States Armed Forces with French Government agencies, na-

tionals, or others owning property, rendering services or residing in France or French overseas territories.

8. The United States Armed Forces agree to continue to reim- Reimbursement of French Government.
burse the French Government for the procurement of goods, services

and facilities obtained through the French Government in France and in French overseas territories subsequent to December 31 , 1946 on

the basis of the French authorities ' presentation of appropriate docu-

ments in a form acceptable to the United States Armed Forces as has been, or may be, agreed upon between the United States Armed Forces and the French authorities.
9. Except as otherwise specifically provided in the within agree- agaWianisvtinFgrenofchclGaoivm-s ment, the United States Government hereby acquits and forever ernment. waives any and all claims against the French Government for supplies, services, utilities, facilities, goods and properties provided to the French Government or its overseas territories by the United States Armed Forces wherever they may be from March 2, 1946 through December 31, 1946. The United States Government will discharge the French Government of any and all liabilities pertaining thereto which have arisen or will arise in any place for this period.

10. It is understood and agreed that claims arising out of acts or omission in France or French overseas territories, of members of

the United States Armed Forces or civilian personnel attached to

such Forces, are not settled within the terms of this agreement and

shall be regulated under such terms as already have been agreed upon between the United States Government and the French Government

in the "United States-French War Settlement Committee Agreed Combined Statement with Respect to Claims" of May 28, 1946. Conversely, it is recognized that similar claims of the United States

61 Stat. , Pt. 4, p. 4185,

against France arising out of acts or omissions of French nationals in France or French overseas territories are not settled within the terms of this agreement.

3830 Effective date.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
11. Other agreements between the United States and France, except in so far as they are not consistent with the terms of the within agreement , shall remain in full force and effect.
The Government of the United States of America will consider this agreement, in the terms outlined above, to be in effect on the date of your reply note indicating that the terms of the agreement are in accord with the understanding of your Government and that your Government approves of those terms.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
For the Secretary of State : WILLARD L. THORP
His Excellency HENRI BONNET, Ambassador of the French Republic.

The French Ambassador to the Secretary of State

AMBASSADE DE FRANCE AUX ETATS- UNIS

WASHINGTON, le February 27, 1948

MR. SECRETARY :

I am pleased to confirm that the terms of your note of February 27, 1948, regarding expenditures of the United States Armed Forces in

France and French Overseas Territories, are in accordance with the

understanding of my Government and that my Government approves those terms and considers them to be in effect from and after this

date./.

Accept, Mr. consideration.

Secretary, the

renewed assurances SFSoArDEthe Ambassador
INBA DE

of my highest

E ANC EFR

The Hon. GEORGE C. MARSHALL Secretary of State Washington, D. C.
¹ Armand Bérard.

WASHING

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL- HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 28, Aug. 23, 1944 Dec. 15, 30, 1948

3831

Agreements between the United States of America and Brazil respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Brazil, amending and extending the agreement of November 25, 1943 , as modified . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rio de Janeiro December 15 and 30 , 1948; entered into force January 14, 1949, operative retroactively January 1 , 1949. And exchange of notes signed at Rio de Janeiro July 28 and August 23, 1944; entered into force August 23, 1944.

July 28 and August 23, 1944, and
Decembe1r94185 and 30, [T. I. A. S. 1939

The American Ambassador to the Brazilian Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 315

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Rio de Janeiro , December 15, 1948

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Government of the United States of Brazil and The Institute of

Inter-American Affairs arising out of the exchange of correspondence between the Acting Secretary of State of the United States of America and the Minister of Finance of Brazil on March 14 , 1942 , as later modified and extended , which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing health and sanitation program in Brazil. 1 also refer to the note of Your Excellency's Ministry of December 13 , 1948 , [' ] suggesting the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.

As Your Excellency knows , the aforementioned Basic Agreement , as amended , provides that the health and sanitation program will terminate on December 31 , 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my

Government agrees with the Government of Brazil, that an extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington, D. C. , that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for a period of six (6 ) months from December 31 , 1948 through June 30, 1949. It would be understood that, during such period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $250,000 U.S. Cy. to the Serviço Especial de Saúde Pública (SESP) for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that Your Government would contribute to the SESP for the same purpose the sum of Cr$ 50,000,000.00 . The Institute would

also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the SESP, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Health and Sanitation Division Field

57 Stat. 1322. Post, p. 3835.

1 Not printed.

3832

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

Staff , who are maintained by the Institute in Brazil. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to Your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details

of the extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Education and Health and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
The Government of the United States of America will consider

Entry, into force.

the present note and your reply concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments , which shall come into
force on the date of signature [ ' ] of an agreement by the Minister of Education and Health of Brazil and by a representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON

His Excellency Ambassador HILDEBRANDO P. P. ACCIOLY,
Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rio de Janeiro.

The Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

DAI/155/112.63

MINISTERIO DAS RELAÇÕES EXTERIORES , RIO DE JANEIRO.
Em 30 de dezembro de 1948.

SENHOR EMBAIXADOR , Tenho a honra de acusar o recebimento da nota nº 315 , de 15 de
dezembro corrente , na qual Vossa Excelência se refere ao Acôrdo Básico entre o Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil e o "Institute of

Inter-American Affairs " , decorrente da troca de correspondência entre o Secretário de Estado dos Estados Unidos da América e o Minis-

tro da Fazenda do Brasil, a 14 de março de 1942 , posteriormente modificado e prorrogado, o qual estabelece o início e a execução do programa, em realização , sôbre saneamento e saúde pública no Brasil.

2. Informa-me Vossa Excelência, na referida nota, de que o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América, em virtude dos benefícios mútuos auferidos com o programa de cooperação mencionado , concorda com a sugestão feita pelo Govêrno dos Estados Unidos do Brasil no sentido

de ser o mesmo prorrogado.

3. Comunica-me, assim, Vossa Excelência , que o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América considera que um ajuste pode ser feito, a fim

de que o "Institute of Inter-American Affairs " continue sua parti-

' Jan. 14, 1949.

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL- HEALTH AND SANITATION July 28, Aug. 23, 1944 Dec. 15, 30, 1948
cipação no programa de cooperação mencionado , por um periodo de seis (6) mêses, ou seja de 31 de dezembro de 1948 a 30 de junho de 1949.
4. Ficará estipulado , no ajuste em questão , que durante o referido período de prorrogação, o "Institute of Inter-American Affairs " contribuirá para o Serviço Especial de Saúde Pública (SESP) com..... U.S. $250,000 (duzentos e cincoenta mil dólares) , em moeda corrente, soma essa destinada à execução das atividades projetadas no programa, devendo o Govêrno dos Estados Unidos do Brasil contribuir para a
mesma organização e para os mesmos fins, com a importância de Cr$50.000.000,00 (cincoenta milhões de cruzeiros ). 5. O "Institute of Inter-American Affairs" comprometer-se-á ainda a contribuir, durante a mesma prorrogação , com as somas destinadas ao pagamento de salários e outras despesas dos membros do Corpo técnico e administrativo de sua "Health and Sanitation Division" no Brasil , somas essas que não serão depositadas na conta do SESP e permanecerão na posse do "Institute" . As quantias referidas serão em acréscimo às somas já exigidas na vigência do Acôrdo Básico, como contribuição das partes e destinadas à execução de seu programa. 6. É-me grato comunicar a Vossa Excelência que o Governo dos Estados Unidos do Brasil concorda com o Governo dos Estados Unidos da América na prorrogação do Acôrdo de cooperação em matéria de saneamento e saúde pública no Brasil , nos têrmos acima expressos, devendo esta nota e a nota de Vossa Excelência, datada de 15 de dezembro e a que a princípio me reporto , constituir a expressão de tal acordo entre os dois Governos, acôrdo que entrará em vigor na data da assinatura, pelo Senhor Ministro de Estado da Educação e Saúde do Brasil e o Representante do "Institute of Inter-American Affairs" , do respectivo instrumento de prorrogação, com os pormenores técnicos acima mencionados .
Aproveito a oportunidade para renovar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
RAUL FERNANDES
A Sua Excelência o Senhor HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON, Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América .

3833

Translation

DAI/155/112.63 MR. AMBASSADOR :

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS , RIO DE JANEIRO . December 30, 1948.

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of note no. 315, of

December 15th of the current year, in which Your Excellency refers to the Basic Agreement between the Government of the United States of Brazil and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs which resulted

from an exchange of correspondence between the Secretary of State of the United States of America and the Minister of the Treasury of

Brazil on March 14 , 1942 , and was later amended and extended , and

Ante, p. 3831. 57 Stat. 1322.

3834

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
which provides for the beginning and execution of the program now in progress on sanitation and public health in Brazil.
2. Your Excellency informs me in that note that the Government of the United States of America , in virtue of the mutual benefits derived from the aforementioned program of cooperation, agrees with the suggestion made by the Government of the United States of Brazil that it be extended .
3. Your Excellency also informs me that the Government of the United States of America believes that an arrangement may be made for the Institute of Inter-American Affairs to continue to participate in the program of cooperation in question for a period of six (6) months, from December 31 , 1948 to June 30 , 1949. 4. The aforesaid arrangement shall provide that during the period of extension the Institute of Inter-American Affairs will contribute $250,000 U.S. cy. (two hundred and fifty thousand dollars) in currency to the Serviço Especial de Saúde Pública (SESP) [Special Public Health Service (SPHS) ] . This amount is to be used in the fulfillment of the planned activities of the program, and the Government of the United States of Brazil shall contribute the amount of $ 50,000,000.00
Cruzeiros (fifty million cruzeiros) to the same organization and for the same purposes. 5. The Institute of Inter-American Affairs further undertakes to contribute, during this period of extension, the amounts to be used in the payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the technical and administrative personnel of its Health and Sanitation Division in Brazil . This money will not be deposited to the account of the SESP and will remain in the possession of the Institute . These amounts will be in addition to the amounts already required under the Basic Agreement, as a contribution by the parties intended for the execution of the program thereof.
6. I take pleasure in communicating to Your Excellency that the Government of the United States of Brazil agrees with the Government of the United States of America on the extension of the Agreement on cooperation in matters of sanitation and public health in Brazil, according to the terms set forth above. This note and that of Your Excellency of December 15th , to which I refer in the beginning, shall constitute the expression of such agreement between the two Governments. This agreement shall come into force on the date of signature of the appropriate instrument of extension, with the aforesaid technical provisions , by the Minister of State for Education
and Health of Brazil and the Representative of the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
RAUL FERNANDES
His Excellency HERSCHEL V. JOHNSON , Ambassador of the United States of America.

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL-HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 28, Aug. 23 , 1944 Dec. 15, 30, 1948

3835

The American Ambassador to the Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 87.

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,

EXCELLENCY :

July 28, 1944.

I have the honor to refer to the Health and Sanitation Agreement between the Governments of the United States of Brazil and the

United States of America , concluded at Rio de Janeiro on November 25, 1943 .

In this connection , I refer to a letter dated July 18 , 1944 , a copy of

which is enclosed, from Major General George C. Dunham, Executive Vice President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , to His

Excellency Dr. Gustavo Capanema , Minister of Education and Health

of Brazil , in which General Dunham proposes certain slight alterations in the original agreement in order to facilitate and improve the

execution of the cooperative program of health and sanitation by the

Serviço Especial de Saude Pública (S.E.S.P. ) , and to provide for

increasing participation by Brazilians in the operation of the S.E.S.P. I should appreciate it if Your Excellency would study these pro-

posals in conjunction with the appropriate authorities of the Brazilian

Government and, if agreeable , if you would write me indicating your approval .

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
JEFFERSON CAFFERY His Excellency
Dr. OSWALDO ARANHA,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Rio de Janeiro.

[Enclosure]

57 Stat. 1338.

The American Executive Vice-President of The Institute ofInter-American
Affairs to the Brazilian Minister of Education and Health A- 2369

His Excellency

RIO DE JANEIRO, July 18, 1944

Doctor GUSTAVO CAPANEMA

Minister of Education and Health

Rio de Janeiro , Brazil

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor of referring to the agreement between the Ministry of Education and Health of Brazil and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs dated November 25 , 1943 providing for the cooperative program of health and sanitation in Brazil now being carried out by the cooperative service designated as the SESP. In order to facilitate and improve the execution of the cooperative program of health and sanitation by the SESP and to provide for increasing participation by Brazilians in the operation of the SESP, I am now proposing for
68706-52 - PT. III- -78

57 Stat. 1338.

3836

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

consideration by Your Excellency the following modifications in certain clauses of the agreement referred to above.
Clause III which reads :

"The Government of Brazil shall appoint as Superintendent of SESP the Chief of Field Party, Health and Sanitation Division, The Institute of Inter-American Affairs. The Superintendent shall have as an administrative assistant a qualified expert duly appointed by the Minister of Education and Health and acceptable to the said Superintendent ."

will be amended to read :

Superintendent.

"The Government of Brazil shall appoint a Superintendent of the

Delegation of authority.

SESP who shall be acceptable to the Chief of Field Party of the Institute. "With the approval of the Minister the Superintendent of SESP may delegate his authority to persons employed by the SESP and to members of the Field Party of the Institute who may, by mutual

agreement between the Chief of Field Party and the Superintendent of the SESP, be assigned to the SESP."

57 Stat. 1339.

Clause IV which reads :

"The health and sanitation program in Brazil shall continue to consist of individual projects . The kind of work and the specific projects to be undertaken in execution of this agreement and the allocation of funds therefor shall be agreed upon by the Minister of Education and Health and the Chief of Field Party in his capacity as representative of the Health and Sanitation Division of the

Institute and shall be carried out by the Superintendent of the SESP in conformity with policies prescribed jointly by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party for the Institute."

will be amended to read:

Individual projects.

"The policies and administrative procedures governing the realization of the health and sanitation program in Brazil shall be mutually agreed upon by the Minister of Education and Health and the Chief of Field Party. The health and sanitation program shall

consist of individual projects . Each project shall be embodied in a written project description which shall be mutually agreed upon and signed by the Superintendent of the SESP and the Chief of Field Party and which shall define the kind of work to be done, the allocation of funds therefor and such other matters as the

Superintendent of the SESP and the Chief of Field Party shall desire to include. All projects shall be carried out by the Superintendent of the SESP in conformity with policies jointly prescribed

by the Minister of Education and Health and the Chief of Field Party. "

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL- HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 28, Aug. 23, 1944 Dec. 15, 30, 1948
Clause X which reads :

1 3837 57 Stat. 1340.

"The Superintendent of SESP shall have the sole power to select , appoint and discharge the employees of SESP and shall determine the salaries , transfers and conditions of employment within the SESP. The employees of SESP shall be remunerated from SESP funds . The Brazilian public officials employed in the SESP shall incur no loss of their civil service status as employees of the Government of Brazil."

will be amended to read :

"The Superintendent of SESP shall have the power to select, ap- SESePleecmtpiloony,eeestc.., of

point, and discharge the employees of SESP and shall determine the salaries, transfers, and conditions of employment within the SESP (except for employees on a professional and technical level who

will be employed by SESP upon mutual agreement between the Superintendent of SESP and the Chief of Field Party) . The employees of SESP shall be remunerated from SESP funds. The

Brazilian public officials employed in SESP shall incur no loss of

their civil service status as employees of the Government of Brazil . " Clause XIV which reads :

57 Stat. 1341.

"The Superintendent of SESP shall furnish the Minister of Educa-
tion and Health any information which is desired concerning the SESP or its activities . Reports shall be provided to the Minister regarding the progress of the work of SESP and its specific projects at such time or times as agreed to by the Minister and the Superintendent ."

will be amended to read :

"The Superintendent of SESP shall provide the Minister and the Chief of Field Party with reports regarding the progress of the work of SESP and its specific projects at such intervals as may be agreed upon by them and the Superintendent of SESP. The Chief of Field
Party or his delegates may inspect the projects , activities , records and files of SESP as necessary."

Reports; inspection.

It should also be understood that wherever in the agreement the

"Minister of Education and Health."

phrase "the Minister of Education and Health" is mentioned it will

be interpreted to mean the "Minister of Education and Health or his

delegate ". I propose for consideration by Your Excellency, in order
to facilitate the operation of the SESP, that the delegate of the Minister of Education and Health as mentioned above be the Superintendent of the SESP.
Force and effect of It is understood that the agreement of November 25 , 1943 shall prior agreement. remain in full force and effect, except insofar as it is specifically 57 Stat. 1338.
amended by the foregoing modifications.
If these modifications are acceptable to Your Excellency, this letter and Your Excellency's acceptance will constitute a binding and

3838

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
effective agreement between The Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Health in accordance with the terms contained therein.
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration.

GEORGE C. DUNHAM Major General, U. S. Army Executive Vice-President The Institute of Inter-American Affairs
Based upon information and belief, it is my opinion that this document is a true and exact copy of the original instrument.
WILLIAM T. THURMAN
Assistant Secretary The Institute of Inter-American Affairs

The Brazilian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DAS RELAÇÕES EXTERIORES , RIO DE JANEIRO .

DAI/DEC/235/512.6 (22) SENHOR EMBAIXADOR ,

Em 23 de agosto de 1944.

Tenho a honra de acusar recebimento da Nota nº 87 , de 28 de

julho último , em que Vossa Excelência se reporta ao Acôrdo sôbre saneamento e saúde , concluido nesta cidade a 25 de novembro de 1943 , entre os Governos do Brasil e dos Estados Unidos da América.

2. Refere-se Vossa Excelência à carta, datada de 18 de julho último,

cuja cópia inclui , do Senhor Major General George C. Dunham, Vice-Presidente do Instituto de Assuntos Inter-americanos , ao Senhor Doutor Gustavo Capanema, Ministro da Educação e Saúde do Brasil, propondo algumas ligeiras alterações ao mencionado Acôrdo , no sentido de facilitar e melhorar a execução do programa de saneamento

e saúde pelo Serviço Especial de Saúde Pública (S.E.S.P.) .

3. Em resposta , estou autorizado a declarar a Vossa Excelência que o Governo brasileiro aceita integralmente as alterações sugeridas pelo Senhor Major General Dunham, e que nesse sentido o meu colega da

Educação e Saúde responderá à carta que o mesmo lhe dirigiu a 18 de julho último .

Aproveito o ensejo para reiterar a Vossa Excelência os protestos da minha mais alta consideração .
P. LEÃO VELLOSO

A Sua Excelência o Senhor JEFFERSON CAFFERY, Embaixador dos Estados Unidos da América.

62 STAT. ]

BRAZIL- HEALTH AND SANITATION

July 28, Aug. 23, 1944 48

Dec. 15, 30, 19

The Brazilian Minister of Education and Health to the American Executive Vice-President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs

DAI/241/512.6 (22)/1944/Anexo único. Ministério da Educação e Saúde

497

RIO DE JANEIRO, 24 de Agosto de 1944 .

SENHOR VICE PRESIDENTE :

Tenho a honra de acusar recebimento da carta de 18 de Julho

último , pela qual Vossa Excelência com o objetivo de facilitar e

melhorar a execução do programa cooperativo de saúde e saneamento ,

empreendido pelo Serviço Especial de Saúde Pública , e afim de per-

mitir a crescente participação de elementos brasileiros na atuação

do referido Serviço, propõe as seguintes modificações em cláusulas do contrato entre o Govêrno Brasileiro e o Govêrno Norte americano ,

assinado em 25 de Novembro de 1943 :

A cláusula III , assim redigida :
O Governo Brasileiro designará como Superintendente do SESP , o Chefe da Missão Técnica da Divisão de Saúde e Saneamento do Instituto de Assuntos Inter-Americanos . O Superintendente terá como assistente administrativo um especialista qualificado , nomeado pelo Ministro da Educação e Saúde e aceito pelo mencionado Superintendente . - Com a aprovação do Ministro, o Superintendente do SESP poderá delegar seus poderes a pessoas empregadas pelo SESP ou pelos membros da Misso Técnica do Instituto" .

passará a ser redigida :
"O Governo Brasileiro designará um Superintendente do SESP que for aceito pelo Chefe da Missão Técnica do Instituto . Com a aprovação do Ministro o Superintendente do SESP poderá delegar seus poderes a funcionários do SESP e a membros da Missão Técnica do Instituto que poderão , por acôrdo mutuo entre o Chefe da Missão Técnica e do Superintendente do SESP, ser designados para o SESP" .
Cláusula IV redigida :
"O programa de saúde e saneamento para o Brasil continuará consistir em projetos separados . A especie de trabalho , os projetos específicos que devam ser realizados em execução dêste acordo e a consequente consignação de fundos , serão assentados entre o Ministro da Educação e Saúde e o Chefe da Missão na sua qualidade de representante da Divisão de Saúde e Saneamento do Instituto , competindo a execução ao Superintendente do SESP segundo os principios assentados em comum acôrdo pelo Ministro e pelo Chefe da Missão da parte do Instituto".
passará a ser redigida:
"Os principios e normas administrativas a serem seguidos para a execução do programa de saúde e saneamento no Brasil serão decididos de comum acordo pelo Ministro da Educação e Saúde e pelo Chefe da Missão Técnica. O programa de saúde e saneamento

3839

3840

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
consistirá de projetos separados . Cada projeto será incorporado numa descrição de projeto que será mutuamente aprovada e assinada pelo Superintendente do SESP e pelo Chefe da Missão Técnica. Essa descrição definirá a natureza dos trabalhos a serem executados a consequente consignação de fundos e assuntos outros que o Superintendente do SESP e o Chefe da Missão Técnica julgarem necessário incluir. Todos os projetos serão executados pelo Superintendente do SESP de acordo com os principios assentados em comum acordo pelo Ministro da Educação e Saúde e pelo Chefe da Missão Técnica".
Cláusula X redigida:
"O Superintendente do SESP terá a autoridade exclusiva de escolher, nomear e demitir os funcionários do SESP e estabelecerá os salários , transferências e condições de emprego dentro do SESP. Os funcionários do SESP serão remunerados com os fundos do SESP. Os funcionários públicos brasileiros, quando a serviço do SESP, não perderão os direitos que naquele caráter lhes correspondem ".
passará a ser redigida:
"O Superintendente do SESP terá a autoridade exclusiva de escolher, nomear e demitir os funcionários do SESP e estabelecerá os salários transferências e condições de emprego dentro do SESP (execetuandose os que forem empregados de comum acordo pelo Superintendente do SESP e pelo Chefe da Missão Técnica , em caráter profissional técnico) . Os funcionários do SESP serão remunerados com os fundos do SESP . Os funcionários públicos brasileiros, quando a serviço do SESP não perderão os direitos que naquele caráter lhes correspondam" .
Cláusula XIV redigida:
"O Superintendente do SESP fornecerá ao Ministro da Educação e Saúde tôdas as informações desejadas a-respeito do SESP ou de suas atividades . Serão apresentados ao Ministro relatórios sôbre o andamento do trabalho do SESP e de seus projetos nas ocasiões combinadas pelo Ministro e o Superintendente.
passará a ser redigida:
"O Superintendente do SESP fornecerá ao Ministro da Educação e Saúde e ao Chefe da Missão Técnica, relatórios sôbre o progresso das atividades do SESP e seus projetos específicos nas ocasiões que forem combinadas entre êles e o Superintendente do SESP. O Chefe da Missão Técnica, ou os seus delegados , poderão inspecionar os projetos e atividades, bem como os registros e arquivos do SESP, quando assim julgarem necessário" .
Propõe ainda V. Exa. , na mencionada carta :
a) que onde no contrato se menciona" O Ministro da Educação e Saúde deverá ser interpretado "O Ministro da Educação e Saúde ou o seu delegado " .

62 STAT. ] BRAZIL--HEALTH AND SANITATION July 28, Aug. 23, 1944 Dec. 15, 30, 1948

b) que êsse delegado seja o Superintendente do Serviço Especial de Saúde Pública; e
c) que o contrato de 25 de Novembro de 1943 permaneça em inteiro vigor e efeito , exceto quanto às modificações específicas acima descritas .

Havendo ponderado convenientemente as alterações sugeridas

por V. Excia., e depois de haver submetido o assunto à alta consi-

deração do Sr. Presidente da República , apraz-me comunicar-lhe que

aprovo e aceito as referidas alterações, passando as mesmas a constituir

compromisso efetivo entre o Instituto de Assuntos Interamericanos

e o Ministério da Educação e Saúde , de acordo com os têrmos contidos

na mencionada carta de V. Excia. , e no presente documento .

Valho-me do ensêjo para reiterar a Vossa Excelência as expressões

do meu distinto aprêço e estima .

GUSTAVO Capanema.

3841

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS,

RIO DE JANEIRO.

DAI/DEC /235/512.6(22)

August 23, 1944.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note No. 87

of July 28 last, in which Your Excellency refers to the Agreement on health and sanitation between the Governments of Brazil and the United States of America which was concluded in this city on November 25, 1943.

2. Your Excellency refers to the letter dated July 18 last, a copy of which is enclosed , from Major General George C. Dunham, Vice President of the Institute of Inter- American Affairs, to Doctor Gustavo Capanema, Minister of Education and Health of Brazil, suggesting some slight modifications of the aforementioned Agreement in order to facilitate and improve the execution of the cooperative program of health and sanitation by the Special Public Health Service (S.E.S.P.) .

3. In reply, I have been authorized to inform Your Excellency that the Brazilian Government accepts the modifications suggested by Major General Dunham in their entirety, and that in this connection my colleague of the Ministry of Education and Health will reply to the letter that he sent to him on July 18 last.
I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.

P. LEÃO VELLOSO

His Excellency JEFFERSON CAFFERY, Ambassador of the United States of America.

Ante, p. 3835. Ante, p. 3835.

3842 Ante, p. 3835. 57 Stat. 1338. 57 Stat. 1338.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT

Translation

DAI/241/512.6 (22)/1944/one enclosure

Ministry of Education and Health

497

RIO DE JANEIRO, August 24, 1944.

MR. VICE PRESIDENT :

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of July

18 last in which Your Excellency, in order to facilitate and improve the execution of the cooperative program of health and sanitation undertaken by the Special Public Health Service, and in order to allow an increasing participation by Brazilians in the operation of the aforementioned Service , proposes the following modifications in certain clauses of the agreement between the Brazilian Government and the Government of the United States, signed on November 25, 1943 :

[For the English language text of the modifications quoted in this letter, see p . 3836 ff.]
Your Excellency further suggests in the aforementioned letter:
a) that wherever in the agreement the phrase "the Minister of Education and Health" is mentioned it will be interpreted to mean the "Minister of Education and Health or his delegate".
b) that this delegate be the Superintendent of the Special Public Health Service ; and
c) that the agreement of November 25 , 1943 shall remain in full force and effect, except insofar as it is specifically amended by the foregoing modifications.

After giving due consideration to the modifications suggested by Your Excellency, and after submitting the matter to the high consideration of the President of the Republic , I take pleasure in communicating to you that I approve and accept the aforementioned modifications , and that they will constitute an effective agreement between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Health in accordance with the terms contained in Your Excellency's letter and in the present document.
I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my distinguished consideration and esteem.
GUSTAVO CAPANEMA.


· -

    - 
              
           )
                                                                 
                    :       ·             
       




Agreements between the United States of America and Iran respecting a Sep[Tt.emI.beAr. 1S1., 1193,411]948 United States military mission with the Imperial Iranian Gendarmerie, amending and further extending the agreement of November 27, 1943. Effected by exchanges of notes dated at Tehran September 11 and 13, 1948; entered into force September 13, 1948.
The Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy


62 STAT. ] IRAN-U. S. MILITARY MISSION- SEPT. 11 , 13, 1948

3843

3844 57 Stat. 1265.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT, Translation

Number 3526

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS 4TH POLITICAL DIVISION Sept. 11, 1948

The Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and concerning the revision of article 20 of the employment contract of the American Military Mission [1] with the Imperial Iranian Gendarmerie has the honor to state that the Imperial Government authorities concerned agree to the amendment of the said article as stated hereunder :

"The Minister of Interior will appoint the Chief of the Mission as Advisor to the Ministry of Interior for affairs relative to the Imperial Gendarmerie for the period of this contract, and his services shall be purely of an advisory nature. To enable him to make competent and comprehensive recommendations the Commanding General of the Gendarmerie shall make all information concerning the organization and training affairs of the Gendarmerie available to the Mission . The said Mission may make such inspections and investigations as may be necessary for it to propose recommendations relating to organization and training affairs. The Mission shall submit such recommendations through the Commanding General of the Gendarmerie to the Ministry of Interior".

The Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs requests the Embassy's courtesy in advising this ministry of the agreement of the United States authorities concerned with regard to the above-mentioned article.

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, Tehran.

57 Stat. 1265.

The American Embassy to the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 347

TEHRAN, IRAN, September 13, 1948.

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compli ments to the Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with reference

to the Ministry's note No. 3526 , dated September 11, 1948 relative to the revision of Article 20 of the agreement covering the United States Military Mission with the Imperial Iranian Gendarmerie has the honor to inform the Ministry that the Government of the United

States is agreeable to the amendment of this article in the terms given in the Ministry's note under acknowledgment, namely :

1¹ Signed Nov. 27, 1943.

62 STAT. ] IRAN- U. S. MILITARY MISSION- SEPT. 11, 13, 1948

3845

"The Minister of Interior will appoint the Chief of the Mission as Advisor to the Ministry of Interior for affairs relative to the Imperial Gendarmerie for the period of this contract, and his services shall be purely of an advisory nature. To enable him to make competent and comprehensive recommendations, the Commanding General of the Gendarmerie shall make all information concerning the organization and training affairs of the Gendarmerie available to the Mission. The said Mission may make such inspections and investigations as may be necessary for it to propose recommendations relating to organization and training affairs. The Mission shall submit such recommendations through the Commanding General of the Gendarmerie to the Ministry of Interior ".
As previously agreed, this revised Article 20 will be effective as of June 20, 1948.
The Embassy avails itself of the opportunity to renew to the Imperial Ministry the assurances of its highest consideration.
J. C. W. THE IMPERIAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS ,
Tehran.

Chief of Mission. Functions.
Effective date.

    - 

            

         



 

 









          

  



  

//



·

       

   

 



    .   







       

    .          







INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT. The Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy


3846

62 STAT. ] IRAN-U. S. MILITARY MISSION- SEPT. 11, 13, 1948

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS , 4TH POLITICAL DIVISION

Note No : 3528

September 11, 1948

The Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and has the honor to state :

In view of the employment contract of the American Advisory Mission with the Imperial Iranian Gendarmerie terminating on October 2, 1948 ( Mehr 10, 1327 ) the Imperial Government authorities concerned, taking into consideration the amendment made in article 20 of the contract and brought to the Embassy's kind attention by note No. 3526 of September 11, 1948 , are in accord with the renewal of the said Mission's employment contract for another period of two years, beginning October 3, 1948 ( Mehr 11 , 1327 ) .
The Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs, therefore, requests that Embassy to be so kind as to advise this Ministry of the agreement of the United States authorities concerned with the renewal of the said contract as stated above.
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA , Tehran.

3847

The American Embassy to the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 348

TEHRAN, IRAN, September 13, 1948.

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its com-

pliments to the Imperial Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the

honor to acknowledge the receipt of the Ministry's note No. 3528 , dated

September 11 , 1948 relative to the renewal of the agreement covering

the United States Military Mission with the Imperial Iranian Gendarmerie.

The Government of the United States is agreeable to the renewal for

U. 8. approval of renewal.

two additional years commencing October 3, 1948 of the agreement,

with the revised Article 20 as given in the Imperial Ministry's note
No. 3526 of September 11 , 1948 and the Embassy's note of today's date.

Ante, p. 3844.

The Embassy avails itself of the opportunity to renew to the

Imperial Ministry the assurances of its highest consideration.

THE IMPERIAL MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS ,

J.C.W.

Tehran.

3848

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

AuNgousvtem1b4,eOrct5o, b1e9r4827, [T. I. A. S. 1943]

Agreement between the United States of America and Panama respecting passport visa fees . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Panamá August 14, October 27, and November 5, 1948 ; entered into force November 5, 1948 , operative January 1 , 1949.

The American Ambassador to the Panamanian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 38

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Panamá, R. P., August 14, 1948.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's Note No. 458 of September 2 , 1947, [ 1 ] the Ministry's Note D. P. 2592 of November 12, 1947, [¹] to previous correspondence and to various informal conversations with the Second Secretary of the Ministry, all pertaining to my government's proposal that temporary visitors ' visas be issued gratis to citizens of the United States and the Republic of Panamá on a reciprocal basis.

I am pleased to inform Your Excellency that the Government of

the United States will on or after the 1st day of November, 1948,

grant to Panamanian nationals who qualify as temporary visitors for

business or pleasure purposes under the provisions of section 3 (2 ) of

43 Stat. 154. 8 U. S. C. § 203 (2).

the Immigration Act

of 1924,

as

amended ,

gratis non-immigrant

62 Stat . , Pt. 1, p. 7. passport visas valid for any number of applications for admission into

the United States and its possessions during a period of twenty-four

(24) months from date of issuance, provided the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period of time, if, on and after the same

date, the Government of Panamá will accord a similar courtesy to American citizens in a like category entering Panamá. All other non-

immigrant passport visas granted to qualified Panamanian nationals will be without fee and valid for any number of applications for admission into the United States during a period of twelve (12) months,

provided the passports of the bearers remain valid for that period of time, if the Government of Panamá will accord a similar courtesy to American citizens in a like category entering Panamá.

The period of validity of a visa relates only to the period within which it may be used in connection with an application for admission at a port of entry into the United States and its possessions, and not to the length of stay in the United States which may be permitted the bearer after he is admitted. The period of time an alien may be

permitted to stay in the United States is determined by the immigra tion authorities at the time the alien is admitted.

'Not printed.

Aug. 14, Oct. 27, 1948 62 STAT.1 PANAMA- PASSPORT VISA FEES-
Nov. 5, 1948

3849

The fee for an immigration visa to permit an alien to apply for admission into the United States and its possessions with the privilege of residing permanently therein is $ 10.00. The amount of this fee is prescribed by the Immigration Act of 1924, and it may not be changed on the basis of a reciprocal arrangement.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
MONNETT B. DAVIS
His Excellency Ing. ERNESTO JAEN GUARDIA, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Panamá, R. P.

43 Stat. 153. 8 U.S. C. 201 note.

The Panamanian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

D. P. #2010

PANAMÁ, 27 de Octubre de 1948

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo a honra referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia

N° 38, de 14 de Agosto de este año, acerca de la proposición del ilustrado Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia para expedición gratuita de

visas temporales de visitantes a ciudadanos de la República de Panamá y los Estados Unidos, sobre base de reciprocidad .
Me es grato hacer del conocimiento de Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno está anuente en aceptar la proposición formulada tendiente a facilitar y fomentar los viajes de recreo y de negocios entre nuestros dos países.

Por lo tanto a partir del primero de Enero de 1949 los Consulados panameños en el exterior expedirán a los nacionales norteamericanos que se califiquen como turistas o transeuntes, dentro de nuestra legislación vigente, visas gratis de turismo o tránsito para fines de recreo o de negocios según el caso, válidas para cualquier número de peticiones de admisión a la República de Panamá durante un período de veinticuatro (24) meses a partir de la fecha de expedición, siempre que los pasaportes sean válidos por ese período y que a partir de esa fecha el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos otorgue la misma cortesía a los ciudadanos panameños en igual categoría que viajen a los Estados Unidos.
El período de validez de una visa se refiere solamente al período dentro del cual puede ser utilizada en relación con la solicitud de admisión en un puerto de entrada al territorio Nacional y no a la extensión de la permanencia que se permita en la República al portador después de ser admitido en el país. El período de tiempo durante el cual puede permitirse la permanencia de un extranjero en la República es determinado por las autoridades panameñas de inmigración al momento de la admisión del extranjero.

3850

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Mi Gobierno desea dejar constancia de que este arreglo en cuanto a visas de turismo o de tránsito no afecta en lo absoluto las disposiciones vigentes o que se dictaren en el futuro en materias de tarjetas de turismo ni tiene relación con las visas oficiales, diplomáticas o especiales.
El presente acuerdo , una vez formalizado con la aceptación definitiva de parte del Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia reforma y subroga en todas sus partes cualesquiera otro arreglo o arreglos existentes entre nuestros dos países en relación con visas de turismo y de tránsito a ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos y la República de Panamá, a base de reciprocidad.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración
IGNACIO MOLINO JR Ignacio Molino Jr. Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores.
A Su Excelencia MONNET B. DAVIS, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos. Ciudad.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

D. P. #2010

PANAMÁ, October 27, 1948

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's courteous note No. 38, dated August 14, 1948, regarding the proposal of Your Excellency's Government relative to the issuance of temporary visitor's visas, free of charge, to citizens of the Republic of Panamá and of the United States, on a reciprocal basis.

I am pleased to inform Your Excellency that my Government is willing to accept the proposal formulated with a view to facilitating and encouraging recreational and business trips to our respective countries .
Therefore, as of January 1 , 1949, Panamanian Consulates abroad will issue to United States citizens who qualify as tourists or transients, in accordance with our legislation in force , free tourist or transit visas for recreational or business purposes, as the case may be, valid for any number of applications for entry into the Republic of Panamá during a period of twenty-four ( 24 ) months from the date of issuance, provided that the passports are valid for that period and that as of the said date the Government of the United States extends the same courtesy to Panamanian citizens of the same category who travel to the United States.

Aug. 14, Oct. 27, 1948

62 STAT. ] PANAMA- PASSPORT VISA FEES

Nov. 5, 1948

The period of validity of a visa refers only to the period within which it may be used in relation to the application for entry into a port of entry of the national territory and not to the extension of sojourn which may be granted in the Republic to the bearer after he is admitted into the country. The period during which an alien may stay in the Republic is determined by the Panamanian immigration authorities at the time of the said alien's entry.
My Government wishes to state for the record that this agreement relative to tourist or transit visas in no wise affects provisions which are in force or which may be adopted in the future regarding tourist cards, and that it has no bearing on official, diplomatic or special visas.
After the present agreement has become effective through its definitive acceptance by Your Excellency's Government, it shall amend and supersede completely any other existing agreement or agreements between our two countries concerning tourist or transit visas for citizens of the United States and of the Republic of Panamá, on a reciprocal basis.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
IGNACIO MOLINO JR
Ignacio Molino Jr. Minister of Foreign Affairs.
His Excellency MONNETT B. DAVIS, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States. Panamá.

The American Ambassador to the Panamanian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 84

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Panamá, November 5, 1948.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's note No. DP 2010 of October 27, 1948, wherein the Government of Panama accepts the proposal made by my Government as indicated in my Note No. 38 dated August 14, 1948 for the reciprocal extension of the validity of visitors' visas issued to citizens of Panama and the United States. I am

pleased to note that, for the purpose of achieving full reciprocity, Your Excellency's acceptance will include the issuance of transit visas to
United States citizens to enable them to enter the Republic of Panama for business reasons.

3851

3852

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

I wish to inform Your Excellency that Note No. DP-2010 under reference has been forwarded to the Department of State in order that appropriate instructions may be issued to American Consular and Diplomatic establishments for the purpose of issuing visitors' visas for business and pleasure under the new agreement on January 1, 1949.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

His Excellency Licenciado IGNACIO MOLINO Jr., Minister for Foreign Affairs, Panamá,

MONNETT B. DAVIS

62 STAT. ]

ITALY CLAIMS- FEB. 14, 1948

3853

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting the procedure for final settlement of claims of Italian prisoners-of-war. Effected by exchange of letters signed at Rome February 14, 1948; entered into force February 14, 1948.

February 14, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1948]

The American Treasury Representative to the Italian Minister of the Treasury

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Address official communications to : AMERICAN EMBASSY
Rome, Italy, February 14, 1948
MY DEAR MR. MINISTER : With respect to the settlement of certain wartime claims of Italian
former Prisoners-of-War, there is attached herewith a Memorandum outlining a proposed procedure for processing such claims still outstanding.
If you are in agreement with the procedure outlined , your letter of acknowledgement, together with this letter and attachment, will constitute a definitive agreement regarding procedure.
Very truly yours, HENRY J. TASCA
Treasury Representative His Excellency
GUSTAVO DEL VECCHIO Minister ofthe Treasury Rome.
Attachment as stated

3854

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

MEMORANDUM WITH RESPECT TO PROCEDURE FOR FINAL SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS OF ITALIAN FORMER PRISONERS-OF -WAR

The Government of the United States, in order to implement rele-

p.631962S. tat . , Pt . 4 ,

vant provisions of the "Memorandum of Understanding" reached with the Lombardo Mission on August 14, 1947, providing for the settlement of certain wartime claims of individuals in Italy who are Ital-

Public announcement.

ian nationals and who have claims arising from their status as Prisoners-of-war in custody of the United States, proposes the following procedure for the settlement of such claims :
The Italian Government will immediately upon the effective date of implementation of the proposals below regarding procedures, issue

orMdileirtary Payemreennt cates of Credit.

a public announcement , to be circulated in every way possible, requesting Italian nationals who are holders of Military Payment Orders and Certificates of Credit , who have not already done so, to transmit such

documents to the Liaison Office , Prisoner-of-war Division, Ministry of

Defense . Such Military Payment Orders and Certificates of Credit

will be turned over to the appropriate United States authorities for

"Statement of

Credit Balance."

screening and checking. A " Statement of Credit Balance", in lieu of

each authentic Military Payment Order or Certificate of Credit pre-

Payment of claims. sented , will be returned to the Italian Government. The Italian Gov-

ernment is requested to undertake to pay promptly in lire at the rate of exchange as provided below all certified claims as indicated in the

61 Stat. p. 3965.

Pt. 4,

individual "Statements " transmitted from time-to-time by the United States Government to the designated Italian authorities. In accordance with Article II , paragraph 11 of the "Memorandum of Understanding" referred to above, the United States Government will pay in

dollars to the Italian Government an amount equal to the total of Mili-

Safeguards against fraud and erroneous payments.

tary Payment Orders and Certificates of Credit collected, as indicated in the aforesaid "Statements of Credit Balance".
In connection with the acceptance of Military Payment Orders and Certificates of Credit, the Italian Government is requested to observe the following safeguards against fraud and erroneous payments :

1. Payee should be required to present positive identification prior
to any acceptance and payment for Military Payment Order or Certificate of Credit held.

2. All Military Payment Orders or Certificates of Credit should be signed in the presence of an official of the Italian Government prior to any acceptance or payment.
3. An affidavit of nationality should be submitted by all persons presenting Certificates for payment to the effect that such persons were nationals of Italy on October 31 , 1947. Such affidavits of na-

62 STAT. ]

ITALY- CLAIMS- FEB . 14, 1948

3855

tionality should also be accompanied by a certification by a local official of the Italian Government.

4. No Military Payment Orders will be accepted which appear to have been altered or tampered with in any manner. However, consideration may be given to statements submitted which contain explanations of such alteration or tampering of such a nature as clearly to warrant payment of the amount involved.

5. All Military Payment Orders and Certificates of Credit collected will be retained by the United States Government for its official records.

6. Legal heirs of deceased Prisoners-of-War, or person or persons authorized under Italian law to bind an estate in event of death or
legal disability will be entitled to payment of Military Payment Orders or Certificates of Credit issued by the United States Government to Prisoners-of-War now deceased or under legal disability, and who at the time of their death were nationals of Italy, provided the steps indicated in Annex I are taken.
7. Legal heirs of a deceased Prisoner -of-War, or person or persons authorized under Italian law to bind his estate in event of death or legal disability will, in addition, execute appropriate certificates as indicated in Annexes I and II, attached to this Memorandum.

Post, p. 3856 Post, p. 3856.

The question of whether holders of Certificates shall immediately receive payment in local currency or whether they shall in the first

instance receive receipts pending the final working-out of arrange-

ments respecting settlement between the United States and Italy is a matter for decision by the Italian Government.
However, the United States Government does not undertake to pay dollars for counterfeit or improperly documented Certificates of

Counterfeit or im properly documented certificates and orders.

Credit and Military Payment Orders. All such Certificates of Credit

and Military Payment Orders discovered by the United States Govern-

ment subsequent to transfer by the Italian Government and payment

therefor in dollars will be subject to refund in dollars from the Italian Government to the United States Government.
All payments made under the above procedure will be free of deductions, commissions and charges. The Italian Government will apply the rate of exchange prevailing on the dollar for United States

Payments free of deductions, commis-
sions, and charges.

Government expenditures on the date of announcement of the agreed procedure for conversion of Certificates of Credit and Military Payment Orders.

Holders of Military Payment Orders and Certificates of Credit turned in subsequent to the date of public announcement should be required to sign a statement such as is provided in Annex III to this Memorandum.
The United States Government desires the Italian Government to expedite in every way possible the collection of these instruments

Post, p. 3857. Time limitation .

over a reasonable period of time. The Italian Government will establish a deadline of two months from the date of public announce-

ment of agreed procedure for the presentation of Military Payment

3856

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Orders and Certificates of Credit. While the Italian Government will make every effort to assure that all claims are presented on or before two months from the date of the public announcement of the agreement regarding procedure, the United States Government will consider sympathetically any request for extension of such time period .
ANNEX I
AFFIDAVIT BY LEGAL HEIRS FOR ENCASHMENT OF MILITARY PAYMENT ORDERS
1. The person or persons who, under Italian law, are the legal heirs of deceased Prisoners-of-War or who are authorized to bind his estate in the event of his death, mental incompetence, or physical or legal disability, will take the following action in order to effect encashment of Military Payment Orders issued by the United States to Italian former Prisoners-of-War who are now deceased or mentally incompetent, or under physical or legal disability :
(a) On the face of the Military Payment Order, under the caption "Received Payment", the legal heir, (heirs) , or person (persons) authorized as herein stated will inscribe the name of the former Prisonerof-War as indicated on the Payment Order, followed by his own signature and the words "legal heir (heirs ) under Italian law" or such other designation as may be appropriate under Italian law.
(b) The following affidavit will be attached to the Military Payment Order, to be completed by the legal heir :
"I ( we) declare that under the provisions of Italian law, I am (we are) the legal heir (heirs ) or the person (persons) authorized under Italian law to bind the estate of the Prisoner-of-War whose name appears on the attached Military Payment Order, who was, on 15 October 1947 (or at the time of his death) , a national of Italy, and who is now deceased, (mentally incompetent) , (under physical or legal disability) . There is attached herewith a notarial statutory declaration executed in full accordance with Italian law."
(Signature)
ANNEX II
AFFIDAVIT BY LEGAL HEIRS FOR ENCASHMENT OF CERTIFICATES OF CREDIT BALANCE
The person or persons who, under Italian law, are the legal heirs of a deceased Prisoner-of-War, or who are authorized to bind his estate in the event of his death, mental incompetence, or physical or legal disability, will attach to the original Certificate of Credit Balance the following affidavit :

62 STAT. ]

ITALY- CLAIMS-FEB. 14, 1948

"I (we) declare that under the provisions of Italian law, I am (we are) the legal heir ( heirs) or the person ( persons ) authorized under Italian law to bind the estate of the Prisoner-of-War whose name
appears on the attached original Certificate of Credit Balance, who was on 15 October 1947 (or at the time of his death) , a national of Italy, and who is now deceased (mentally incompetent) , (under physi-
cal or legal disability) . In confirmation thereof, there is attached herewith a notarial statutory declaration executed in full accordance with Italian law."

( Signature )

ANNEX III AFFIDAVIT HOLDERS OF MILITARY PAYMENT ORDERS AND CERTIFICATES OF CREDIT TURNED IN AFTER OCTOBER 31, 1947

"I, the undersigned , declare that the attached Military Payment Order and/or Certificate of Credit was issued to me by the United States Government, and was for amounts which, under the provisions of the Conventions on Prisoners-of-War then in force, accrued to my credit for the period I was held in the custody of the United States Government as a Prisoner-of-War during World War II. I further declare that on October 31, 1947, I was a national of Italy. There is attached herewith a duly authorized and authentic certificate of nationality . "

(Signature)

(Prisoner-of-War Number)

3857

3858

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

The Italian Minister of the Treasury to the American Treasury Representative
REPUBBLICA ITALIANA Il Ministro del Tesoro

Prot. n. 305179 A. V. EGREGIO DOTT. TASCA,

ROMA, 14 febbraio 1948

mi riferisco alla sua lettera del 14 febbraio c. a. ed al "Memorandum"

ad essa allegato, concernente il regolamento e le modalità di pagamento dei titoli di credito in possesso di militari italiani già prigionieri di guerra negli U.S.A. -
Ho il piacere di informarla che le intenzioni manifestate dal Governo Americano e la procedura indicata nel suddetto "Memorandum", sono da ritenersi soddisfacenti.
Resta inteso, pertanto, che lo stesso "Memorandum" costituisce accordo definitivo circa la procedura da seguire per il regolamento e la liquidazione dei crediti di cui trattasi.

Colo l'occasione, egregio Dott . Tasca , per rinnovarle le assicurazioni della mia più alta considerazione.
IL MINISTRO

DEL VECCHIO

Dott. HENRY J. TASCA Treasury Representative - Ambasciata S. U. A.- Roma

Ante, p 3853.

ITALIAN REPUBLIC The Ministry of the Treasury

Translation

Prot. n. 305179 A. V. DEAR DR. TASCA :

ROME, February 14, 1948

I refer to your letter of February 14, 1948, and to the "Memorandum" thereto attached , regarding the regulation and methods of payment of credit certificates held by Italian soldiers formerly prisoners of war in the United States of America.
I am happy to inform you that the intentions manifested by the United States Government and the procedure indicated in the aforementioned "Memorandum", are to be considered as satisfactory.
It is understood, therefore, that the same "Memorandum" consti-
tutes a definitive agreement with respect to the procedure to be followed in the regulation and liquidation of the credits in question.

62 STAT. ]

ITALY - CLAIMS- FEB. 14, 1948

I avail myself of the occasion, Dear Dr. Tasca , to renew to you the assurances of my highest consideration.

THE MINISTER

Dr. HENRY J. TASCA

DEL VECCHIO

Treasury Representative American Embassy - Rome

3859

68706-52--PT. III- -79

3860

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

De(cTe.mIb.eAr.7,S.161,91591]43

Agreement between the United States of America and the United States United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany respecting duty -free entry and payment of transportation charges on relief supplies and packages for United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany. Effected by exchange of letters signed at Berlin December 7 and 16, 1948; entered into force December 16, 1948.

The United States Political Adviser for Germany and the Deputy Special ECA Representative to the Bizone to the United States/ United Kingdom Military Governors

BIPARTITE BOARD Berlin, Germany

DECEMBER 7, 1948

GENTLEMEN :

For the purpose of giving effect to Article VI , paragraph 2, read with Article IV, paragraph 5 , of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States of America and the United States/

62 Stat ., Pt . 2 , United Kingdom Military Governors, signed on 14 July 1948, it is pp. 2287, 2286.
understood that the United States/United Kingdom Military Gov-
ernors in Germany, acting on behalf of the United States/United King-
dom occupied areas in Germany, and the Government of the United
States of America have agreed as follows :

Duty-free entry items.

1. The United States/United Kingdom Military Governors shall ac-

cord duty-free entry into the United States/United Kingdom occu-

pied areas in Germany of :

(a) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by voluntary nonprofit relief agencies having their headquarters in the United States of America and qualified under Economic Cooperation Administration (hereinafter referred to as ECA) regulations and consigned to such charitable organizations ( including branches of such agencies in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany) as have been or hereafter shall be approved by the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors.

(b) Relief packages originating in the United States and sent by parcel post or commercial channels to any person residing in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany, whether packed privately or by order placed with a commercial firm .

(c) Standard packs put up by voluntary nonprofit relief agencies having their headquarters in the United States of America and qualified under ECA regulations, or their approved agents, on

62 STAT. ] GERMANY, U. S./U. K. ZONE- RELIEF SUPPLIES-DEC. 7, 16, 1948

3861

the order of persons in the United States and sent for delivery to any person residing in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany.

2. For the purpose of this agreement, the term "relief goods " (paragraph 1 ( a ) above ) shall not include tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, or such other commodities as may be agreed upon

Definition of scope of duty-free entry items.

by the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors and the United States Government ; "relief packages" (paragraph 1 (b)

above ) shall include only such goods as are qualified for ocean freight

subsidy under the ECA Act and regulations issued by the Adminis- 62 Stat., Pt. 1, p. 137.

trator thereunder and as may be agreed upon for entry into the United

States/United Kingdom occupation areas by the United States/United

Kingdom Military Governors and the United States Government ;

"standard packs" ( paragraph 1 ( c ) above ) shall contain only those

articles which qualify under ECA regulations and are approved by

the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors.

3. Costs of transportation ( as defined in paragraph 5 of Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement ) in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany on "relief goods ", "relief packages" and "standard packs" shall be defrayed as follows :
(a) The amount of such costs for all shipments sent by United

Costs of transportation on duty-free entr6y2iteSmtsa. t . , Pt. 2, p. 2288.
1

States parcel post to persons in the United States/United King-

dom occupied areas in Germany shall be computed by the

German postal services in those areas in the manner now or

hereafter provided by relevant agreements, rules and regula-

tions of the International Postal System. Such costs shall be

reimbursed to such postal service out of the Special Account provided for in Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States of America and the United

62 Stat . , Pt . 2 p. 2285.

States/United Kingdom Military Governors and no claim for such costs shall be made against the United States of America.

(b) Shipments originally dispatched from the United States of America by regular established commercial channels and for-

warded by German parcel post in the United States/United

Kingdom occupied areas in Germany by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee shall be accepted by the German postal service without payment of postal charges by the agent.

The German postal service shall be reimbursed for such parcel post charges out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

(c) Shipments originally dispatched from the United States of

America by commercial channel and forwarded by common or contract carrier to the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee shall be accepted by the carrier, who may or may not demand from the agent payment of carrier charges. The carrier or the agent, as the case may be, shall be reimbursed for

such charges out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

3862

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

(d ) Any charges incurred by an agent of a shipper under subpara-

graphs (b) and ( c ) above, other than parcel post or carrier

charges, shall be repaid to such agent out of the Special Ae-

Payment of costs of transportation on
duty-free entry items.

count upon presentation of adequate documentation.
4. The United States/United Kingdom Military Governors shall make payments out of the Special Account for the purposes specified

in subparagraphs ( a ) , (b ) , ( c) , and (d ) of paragraph 3 above, and

shall submit to the ECA Mission in the United States/United King-

dom occupied areas in Germany (with a copy to Controller, ECA ofMpoanytmhelnytsst. atements Washington ) monthly statements of such payments in such form as
may be agreed by the United States/United Kingdom Military Gov-

Adjustments .

ernors and the Mission, provided that every statement shall showtotal weight carried and costs of transportation incurred. Adjustments

shall be made in the Special Account, as shown to be required by Eca

Entry into force; duration.

audit, if requested by Eca within one year of the submission of the relevant documents and information.
5. The terms of this note shall become effective immediately and shall remain in force, subject to such prior termination or modification as may be agreed upon between the Government of the United

States of America and the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors for the same period as the Economic Cooperation Agree-

62 Stat. , Pt . 2 , ment of 14 July 1948. p. 2279.

If the foregoing is in accord with your understanding, we should appreciate your so informing us. The two notes then exchanged will

constitute an agreement in the premises between the United States/

United Kingdom Military Governors in Germany acting on behalf of

the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany and the United States of America.

Yours very truly,

ROBERT D. MURPHY United States Political Adviser

for Germany

N. H. COLLISSON Deputy Special ECA Representative
to the Bizone

62 STAT. ] GERMANY, U. S./U. K. ZONE- RELIEF SUPPLIES- DEC. 7, 16, 1948

3863

The United States/United Kingdom Military Governors to the United States Political Adviser for Germany and the Deputy Special ECA Representative to the Bizone

THE BIPARTITE BOARD OFFICE OF THE BIPARTITE SECRETARIAT
Berlin

16 DECEMBER 1948

GENTLEMEN :

For the purpose of giving effect to Article VI , paragraph 2, read

with Article IV, paragraph 5, of the Economic Cooperation Agreement

between the United States of America and the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors, signed on 14 July 1948, it is understood that the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors in Ger-

62 Stat . , Pt . 2, pp. 2287, 2286.

many, acting on behalf of the United States/United Kingdom occupied

areas in Germany, and the Government of the United States of Amer-

ica have agreed as follows :

1. The United States/United Kingdom Military Governors shall accord duty-free entry into the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany of :

(a) Supplies of relief goods or standard packs donated to or purchased by voluntary non-profit relief agencies having their headquarters in the United States of America and qualified under Economic Cooperation Administration (hereinafter referred to as ECA ) regulations and consigned to such charitable organizations ( including branches of such agencies in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany) as have been or hereafter shall be approved by the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors.

(b) Relief packages originating in the United States and sent by parcel post or commercial channels to any person residing in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany,
whether packed privately or by order placed with a commercial firm .

(c ) Standard packs put up by voluntary nonprofit relief agencies having their headquarters in the United States of America and qualified under ECA regulations, or their approved agents, on the order of persons in the United States and sent for delivery to any person residing in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany.
 2. For the purpose of this agreement, the term "relief goods" ( paragraph 1 ( a ) above ) shall not include tobacco, cigars , cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, or such other commodities as may be agreed upon by the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors and the United States Government; "relief packages" (paragraph 1 (b) above) shall include only such goods as are qualified for ocean freight subsidy under the ECA Act and regulations issued by the Administrator thereunder and as may be agreed upon for entry into the United

62 Stat., Pt.1, p.187.

3864

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

States/United Kingdom occupation areas by the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors and the United States Government ; "standard packs " (paragraph 1 (c) above) shall contain only those articles which qualify under ECA regulations and are approved bythe United States/United Kingdom Military Governors.
3. Costs of transportation ( as defined in paragraph 5 of Article IV p.622286S. tat . , Pt. 2 , of the Economic Cooperation Agreement) in the United States/United
Kingdom occupied areas in Germany on " relief goods", "relief packages" and "standard packs" shall be defrayed as follows :

62 Stat . , Pt . 2 , p. 2285.

(a) The amount of such costs for all shipments sent by United States parcel post to persons in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany shall be computed by the German postal services in those areas in the manner now or hereafter provided by relevant agreements, rules and regulations of the International Postal System. Such costs shall be reimbursed to such postal service out of the Special Account provided for in Article IV of the Economic Cooperation Agreement between the United States of America and the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors and no claim for such costs shall be made against the United States of America.
(b) Shipments originally dispatched from the United States of America by regular established commercial channels and forwarded by German parcel post in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee shall be accepted by the German postal service without payment of postal charges by the agent. The German postal service shall be reimbursed for such parcel post charges out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.
(c) Shipments originally dispatched from the United States of America by commercial channel and forwarded by common or contract carrier to the United States/United Kingdom oc cupied areas in Germany by an approved agent of the shipper to the addressee shall be accepted by the carrier, who may or may not demand from the agent payment of carrier charges. The carrier or the agent, as the case may be, shall be reimbursed for such charges out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.
(d) Any charges incurred by an agent of a shipper under subparagraphs (b) and ( c ) above, other than parcel post or carrier charges, shall be repaid to such agent out of the Special Account upon presentation of adequate documentation.

4. The United States/United Kingdom Military Governors shall make payments out of the Special Account for the purposes specified in subparagraphs ( a) , (b) , ( c) , and ( d) of paragraph 3 above, and shall submit to the ECA Mission in the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany ( with a copy to Controller, ECA Washing-

62 STAT. ] GERMANY , U. S./U. K. ZONE- RELIEF SUPPLIES -DEC. 7, 16, 1948

3865

ton ) monthly statements of such payments in such form as may be agreed by the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors and the Mission, provided that every statement shall show total weight carried and costs of transportation incurred. Adjustments shall be made in the Special Account, as shown to be required by ECA audit, if requested by ECA within one year of the submission of the relevant documents and information.

5. The terms of this note shall become effective immediately and

shall remain in force, subject to such prior termination or modifica-

tion as may be agreed upon between the Government of the United

States of America and the United States/United Kingdom Military

Governors for the same period as the Economic Cooperation Agree-

62 Stat .. Pt . 2

ment of 14 July 1948.

p. 2279.

In accordance with your letter of 7 December 1948 , it is understood that that letter, together with this letter, constitute an agreement in the premises between the United States/United Kingdom Military Governors in Germany acting on behalf of the United States/United Kingdom occupied areas in Germany and the United States of America.

B. H. ROBERTSON B. H. Robertson
General
Military Governor British Zone

LUCIUS D CLAY Lucius D. Clay
General, U. S. Army Military Governor U. S. Zone

ROBERT D. MURPHY United States Political Adviser
for Germany N. H. COLLISSON
Deputy Special ECA Representative to the Bizone

3866

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

June 28, 30, 1948 (T. I. A. S. 1952]

Agreement between the United States of America and Peru respecting a cooperative educational program in Peru, extending and modifying the agreement of April 4, 1944, as modified and extended . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Lima June 28 and 30 , 1948; entered into force July 6, 1948, operative retroactively July 1 , 1948.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 1025 EXCELLENCY :

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Lima, Perú, June 28, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Government of Perú and the Inter-American Educational Foundation,
p.631871S.tat . , Pt . 4, Inc. , dated April 4, 1944, as later modified and extended , which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative educational program in Perú. I also refer to Your Excellency's note of June 25 , 1948 ['] suggesting the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement. In accordance with legislation enacted during 1947 by the Congress and approved by the President of the United States all of the property, funds, functions, personnel, liabilities, and restrictions of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , were transferred to The Institute of
Inter-American Affairs , a corporate instrumentality of the United States created by such legislative action . Consequently, the participation by the United States in the cooperative education program is now being effectuated through the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
As Your Excellency knows, the agreement of April 4, 1944 , as amended, provides that the cooperative education program will terminate on June 30 , 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Perú that an extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for a period of 1 year, from June 30 , 1948
through June 30 , 1949. It would be understood , that during such period of extension the Institute would make a contribution of $40,000.00 U. S. Currency to the Servicio Cooperativo Peruano Norteamericano de Educación for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that Your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of Soles 1,565,469.08 (241,398.46 U. S. Cy. ) . The Institute would also be

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-JUNE 28, 30, 1948

3867

willing during the same extension period to make available an amount not exceeding $ 125,000.00 U. S. Cy. to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Education Division Field Staff who are maintained by the Institute in Perú. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to Your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the

extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Education and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature [ ] of an agreement by the Minister of Public Education of Perú and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

R. M. DE LAMBERT

His Excellency,

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

General don ARMANDO REVOREDO IGLESIAS ,

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lima.

Entry into force.

The Peruvian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

No: (D)-6-3/48

LIMA, 30 de junio de 1948.

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS : Tengo a honra avisar recibo a Vuestra Señoría de su atenta nota
N° 1025, de 28 del mes próximo pasado , en la cual, con relación a la prórroga del Convenio Básico de Educación entre el Gobierno del

Perú y el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos, me hace saber que el Instituto efectuaría una contribución de $ 40.000.00 , moneda de los Estados Unidos , al Servicio Cooperativo Peruano- Norteamericano , para ser utilizada en las actividades sujetas al acuerdo modificado y prorrogado, y con una suma no mayor de $125.000, que sería retenida por el Instituto para el pago de sueldos y otros gastos del personal de la División de Educación del Instituto en el Perú.

¹1 July 6, 1948. 68706-52-- PT. III- -80

3868

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Me es grato informar a Vuestra Señoría que, según me ha comunicado el Ministerio de Educación Pública, el Gobierno del Perú estaría dispuesto a contribuir, para la realización del Convenio con la suma de S/.1,565.469.08.
De acuerdo con lo expuesto en la comunicación que contesto, puede V. E. considerar este cambio de Notas como el convenio constituído entre nuestros dos Gobiernos, que entrará en vigor en la fecha en que se firme la Prórroga del Servicio Cooperativo Peruano Norteamericano de Educación en el Perú, entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Señoría las seguridades de mi distinguida consideración.
A REVOREDO I
Al Honorable señor RICHARD M. DE LAMBERT, Encargado de Negocios de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad.-

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND WORSHIP

No. (D)-6-3/48

LIMA, June 30, 1948.

MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note no . 1025 dated the 28th of this past month in which, regarding the extension of the Basic Agreement on Education concluded between the Government of Peru and the Institute of Inter-

American Affairs , you inform me that the Institute would contribute $40,000.00 (U. S. currency) to the Peruvian-North American Co-

operative Service, for the activities envisaged in the amended and extended Agreement, and would contribute a sum not to exceed $125,000.00 , which would be retained by the Institute for payment of salaries and other personnel expenses of the Education Division of the Institute in Peru .

I am pleased to inform Your Excellency that the Ministry of Public Education has advised me that the Government of Peru

would be willing to contribute the sum of 1,565,469.08 soles for the implementation of the Agreement.
In accordance with the terms of the communication to which I am

replying, Your Excellency may consider this exchange of notes as the Agreement concluded between our two Governments , which shall go into effect on the date of the signature of the Extension of the PeruvianNorth American Cooperative Educational Service in Peru, between the Minister of Public Education and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

62 STAT. ] PERU-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION--JUNE 28, 30, 1948
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my most distinguished consideration.
A REVOREDO I The Honorable RICHARD M. DE LAMBERT,
Chargé d'Affaires of the United States of America, City.-

3869

3870

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

September 26, and December 9, 1947, and May 6, and
June 7, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1954]

Agreement between the United States of America and the Republic of the Philippines respecting a naval charter for lease of vessels to the Philippines under Public Law 454, 79th Congress , modifying the agreement of March 21 , 1947. Effected by exchanges of notes signed at Manila September 26 and December 9 , 1947 , and May 6 and June 7, 1948; entered into force June 7, 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

No. 0039

September26, 1947.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the

61 Stat . , Pt. 3 , p. 3283.

Philippines on Military Assistance to the Philippines signed at Manila on March 21 , 1947 and to enclose a form of Naval Charter for the lease of vessels made available by the United States Navy to the Gov-

ernment of the Philippines under the terms of that Agreement. The Embassy believes that Your Excellency's Government will find the

terms of the proposed Charter, which was prepared under the direc-

tion of the Chief of Naval Operations of the United States, satisfac-

tory and will be prepared to designate the person who shall sign the agreement in behalf of the Government of the Philippines. The Com-

mander, U. S. Naval Forces Philippines has been designated as the person to sign the Charter in behalf of the United States.

Post, p. 3872.

Your Excellency will observe that Article I of the Charter proposes

that the Charter shall remain in effect until terminated by mutual agreement, but in no event beyond the termination date of Public Law

60 Stat. 315. 50 U. 8. C. app § 1861-1866.
61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , p. 3284.

No. 454 of the 79th Congress of the United States, Second Session, or any extension thereof. This is in accordance with Article 5 of the
aforementioned Military Assistance Agreement which specifies that title to vessels furnished under the terms of the Agreement on a nonreimbursable basis shall remain in the United States. Your Excel-

Post, p. 3873.

lency will also observe that Article IX of the proposed Charter provides that notwithstanding the provisions of Article 5 of the Military Assistance Agreement, the owners and the charterers , that is to say the Government of the United States and the Government of the Philippines, may agree as to any or all of the vessels covered by the Charter that title be transferred to the charterers under the provisions of the above- cited Public Law No. 454.

Should Your Excellency's Government desire to enter into such an agreement for the transfer of the title to any or all of the vessels as
an exception to and notwithstanding the provisions of Article 5 of the
61 Stat . , Pt . 3 Military Assistance Agreement, I am authorized by my Government p. 3284.

62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-LEASE OF VESSELS Sept. 26, Dec. 9, 1947 May 6, June 7, 1948

3871

to make and confirm such an agreement by an exchange of notes on the understanding that such action applies only to naval vessels covered by the proposed Charter and does not establish a precedent for future

Application to naval vessels only.

transfers that may be made of other vessels or of other equipment,

which transfers in the absence of special agreements such as that pro-

posed herein, would be guided by Article 5 of the Military Assistance Agreement.
As soon as the competent authorities of Your Excellency's Govern-

ment have had an opportunity to study the terms of the proposed Charter, which, it is hoped and believed , will be found acceptable in its present form, I shall be happy to receive your comments together with the decision of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines

as to whether it desires to take title to the vessels in question. In the

event that the decision of Your Excellency's Government is in the

affirmative, it is suggested that this note and such affirmative reply

be accepted as constituting an agreement to modify the provisions of Article 5 of the Military Assistance Agreement with respect to this particular transaction.

61 Stat . , Pt . 3 p. 3284.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
EMMET O'NEAL

Enclosure : Draft of proposed Charter.

His Excellency ELPIDIO QUIRINO,

Secretary of Foreign Affairs for the

Republic of the Philippines.

[Enclosure]

NAVAL CHARTER FOR LEASE OF VESSELS UNDER UNITED STATES PUBLIC LAW 454 79TH CONGRESS [ ¹ ]

In consideration of the mutual interest in matters of common

defense , THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES (hereinafter re-

ferred to as "the Owners") represented by the

acting pur-

"Owners."

suant to (1 ) the authority of and in compliance with United States Public Law 454, 79th Congress, 2nd Session, approved June 26, 1946, and of the directions of the President of the United States, ( 2 ) the

60 Stat. 315. 50 U.S. C. app .
$ 1861-1866.

agreement between the Government of the Republic of the Philip-

pines and the Government of the United States of America on military

assistance, dated March 21 , 1947, and the related agreement as to

61 Stat. , Pt . 3 , p. 3283.

military bases, and ( 3) the concurrence of the Secretary of State of

the United States, hereby leases and the Government of the Republic

of the Philippines (hereinafter referred to as "the Charterers" ) acting

by and through

hereby accepts for the period and upon

the terms and conditions stated herein, the vessels (including ships,

"Charterers. "

boats, barges, and floating drydocks ) identified on lists annexed hereto ,

' The charter was completed and signed at Manila July 2, 1948.

3872

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

or which in the future may be annexed hereto, upon agreement of the Owners and the Charterers.

ARTICLE I

Period of operation . THIS charter shall operate with respect to each vessel covered

thereby, from the date of the delivery of such vessel to the Charterers

and shall continue until terminated by mutual agreement between the

60 Stat. 315. 50 U.S. C. app .
§§ 1861-1866.

Owners and the Charterers, but in no event beyond the termination date of United States Public Law 454, 79th Congress, 2nd Section or any extension thereof.

ARTICLE II

Delivery.

EACH vessel, together with its available on board spares and allowances including consumable stores and fuel , shall be or has heretofore been delivered to the Charterers on an "as is, where is" basis, at atime mutually agreed or to be agreed upon ; delivery in either event to be evidenced by a delivery certificate in the form prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy. The Charterers shall have the use of all outfitting, equipment, appliances, fuel, consumable stores and spare and replacement parts belonging to the Owners on board each such vessel at the time of its delivery. The fuel and consumable stores on board the vessel at the time of redelivery shall become the property ofthe owners.

ARTICLE III

Condition of vessels upon delivery.

EACH vessel is a Naval vessel of the Government of the United States which has been administratively determined to be excess to require-

ments ; and the Government of the United States therefore makes no representation or warranty as to the condition of said vessels, and

the said vessels shall be accepted by the Charterers " as is, where is",

at the time of delivery thereof ; and the Owners shall not be liable

to the Charterers by reason of anything arising out of the physical

condition of any such vessels.

ARTICLE IV

Flags; titles.

THE Charterers shall on delivery place each vessel under their own flag, but the title to the vessel shall not thereby be affected.

ARTICLE V

Alteration ofvessels

THE Charterers may, for military purposes and at their own expense, remove or alter any of the fittings or arrangements on board any of the vessels and may erect any new things which may be required by the Charterers .
ARTICLE VI

Liability of Chart- ALL vessels during the currency of this charter shall be at the absoerers.
lute disposal and under the complete control of the Charterers ; the
Charterers shall hold harmless and indemnify the Owners against
any and all costs, expenses , losses, damages, and claims (including

Sept. 26, Dec. 9, 1947 62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-LEASE OF VESSELS- May 6, June 7, 1948
those arising by reason of the transfer or use of Bofors 40 mm guns or guns of similar types made or produced under or pursuant to an agreement dated June 21 , 1941 between the Government of the United States of America and Aktisbolaget Bofors ) , regardless of the nature thereof, arising out of or connected with the transfer, use, and operation of the vessel, and whether or not said liability arises out of contract or tort ; and nothing contained herein shall be construed to give rise to or to permit or to confer or recognize the existence of any lien of any character against any of such vessels, but the Charterers shall indemnify and hold harmless the Owners by reason of any lien liabilities that may be chargeable to or asserted against any such vessel.

3873

ARTICLE VII

UPON the expiration of this charter, or upon prior redelivery of any vessels, each vessel, unless lost, shall be redelivered at a port of the United States of America or other location as may be designated

Redelivery of vessels upon expiration of charter.

by the Owners in such condition as the vessel is in at the termination

of its operational service . Should any vessel during the currency of

this charter sustain any damage from any cause whatsoever, as in the opinion of the Charterers render it expedient to treat her as a total

loss, the Charterers shall, where practicable, consult with the Owners

before declaring her to be a total loss.

ARTICLE VIII

It is understood and agreed that, in the event of a total loss of any

Title, etc., in case of total loss.

vessel subject to this Charter, all right, title and interest of the

Owners in and to such vessel shall vest in the Charterers as of the

date of the loss thereof.

ARTICLE IX

NOTWITHSTANDING the provisions of Article V of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Government of the United States of America on military assistance dated March 21 , 1947 and this Charter, the Owners and the Charterers may agree, as to any or all of the vessels covered by this Charter, that

Transfer of title.
61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , p. 3284.

title be transferred to the Charterers under the provisions of United States Public Law 454, 79th Congress, 2nd Session. In the event that it is agreed that title to any or all of the vessels covered by this Charter

60 Stat. 315. 50 U.S. C. app.
5 1861-1866.

be transferred to the Charterers, such vessels shall be striken from the list of vessels covered by this Charter and transfer of title shall

be evidenced by a delivery certificate or document in a form to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy, and shall be made upon the express condition that the Government of the Republic of the Philippines will hold harmless and indemnify the Government of the United States, its officers, agents, servants and employees against any and all claims, demands, losses, damages, expenses and costs regardless of the nature thereof, arising out of or connected with the transfer of title to such vessel or vessels or the use and operation thereof by the Government of the Republic of the Philippines, whether or not said lia-

3874

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

bility arises out of contract or tort ; and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, will hold harmless and indemnify the Government of the United States, its officers, agents, servants and employees against any and all claims, demands, expenses, damages and costs arising or growing out of transfer to the Government of the Republic of the Philippines of Bofors 40 mm guns or guns of similar type made or produced under or pursuant to an agreement dated June 21, 1941 between the Government of the United States of America and Aktiebolaget Bofors.

ARTICLE X

Sale or transfer of charter.

THE Charterers shall not , without the consent of the Owners, sell or transfer or assign this charter or any interest therein or make any arrangement whereby the maintenance, management or operation of any of the vessels is to be performed by anyone not an officer, employee, or agent of the Charterers.

ARTICLE XI

Relinquishment of physical possession or transfer of title to ves-
sels.

THE Charterers shall not, as to any vessels covered by this Charter or as to any vessels title to which is transferred pursuant to Article IX hereof, relinquish physical possession of or transfer title to any of the

vessels, equipment, outfitting, appliances or spare and replacement parts on board, without the specific consent of the President of the

United States and shall not ( 1) permit use of any of the vessels or

property so transferred, (2) disclose any plan, specification or other

information pertaining thereto, or ( 3 ) disclose any technical informa-

tion furnished, by or to anyone not an officer, employee, or agent of

the Government of the Republic of the Philippines ; and security clas-

sifications covering such equipment will be safeguarded in accordance

with the requirements imposed thereon by the Secretary of the Navy.

ARTICLE XII

Personnel

As long as this Charter shall remain in effect the Government of the Republic of the Philippines shall not engage or accept the services of any personnel of any Government other than the United States of America for duties of any nature connected with the use and operation of the vessels transferred pursuant to this Charter, except by mutual agreement between the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the Government of the United States of America.

Done at day of

1947.

this

For and on behalf of the Government of the United States of America :

Done at day of

1947.

this

*

For and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines :

62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-LEASE OF VESSELS Sept. 26, Dec. 9, 1947 May 6, June 7, 1948
"DELIVERY CERTIFICATE"

3875

In accordance with the Charter between the Government of the United States

of America and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines dated

-covering the transfer of Naval vessels and equipment pursuant to Public Law 454-79th Congress, the undersigned, as authorized representative of the Navy of the Republic of the Philippines, accepts the below described

60 Stat. 315. 50 U.S. O. app . §§ 1861-1866.

craft, together with its on board equipment, stores and fuel from

authorized representative of the United States Navy.

1: U.S. NAVAL TYPE DESIGNATION

NAME

PHILIPPINE NAME

For the Philippine Navy
Instructions : Delivery Certificate to be executed in quadruplicate. Original to be forwarded to BuShips, copy to BuSandA (Foreign Accounts Division ) ; CNO ( Op-414) ; Copy to Philippine Representative. C 1

The Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

EXCELLENCY :

MANILA, December 9, 1947

I have the honor to refer to your note of September 26 , 1947, enclosing a copy of the proposed "Naval Charter for Lease of Vessels " between the Republic of the Philippines and the United States of America for consideration of the appropriate authorities of my Government.

After a study of the proposed agreement, I am happy to inform you that the draft is satisfactory to the Philippine Government with the exception of the following observations :

Ante, p. 3870. Ante, p. 3871.

(a) That the lists of vessels referred to in the first paragraph of the note which will be annexed to the agreement shall include only such vessels as may be selected by the Republic of the Philippines acting through the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.
(b) That the vessels so selected by the Republic of the Philippines through its Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces shall be accepted by the charterers in A-1 operational condition complete with all items of equipment, appliances, fuel, consumable stores and spare and replacement parts in accordance with the standard table of allowances.

With the above understanding, I shall be ready to sign the agreement in behalf of my Government.
My Government appreciates the opportunity accorded to the Republic of the Philippines to own the vessels covered by the agreement in accordance with the provisions of Article IX of the draft. I shall convey to the Embassy in due course the decision of the Philippine Government as to the acquisition of title to the vessels in question.

Ante, p. 3873.

3876

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

I have also been recently informed that the present training unit

of the United States Navy consisting of eight officers and twentyeight enlisted men who are assisting the present Off-Shore Patrol Training Center at Cavite in the training of the personnel of the

Philippine Off- Shore Patrol will be disbanded on or before January 1, 1948 due to lack of statutory funds for their maintenance. The United States Naval Training Unit has been rendering invaluable services to the Off- Shore Patrol Training Staff and its withdrawal will seriously interrupt the training program of the Off- Shore Patrol which is just starting and growing.
I wish to recall in this connection that Article 6 (d ) of the Military

p.631284S.tat . , Pt . 3 ,

Assistance Agreement provides for making available selected facilities of United States Army and Navy Training establishments to provide training for key personnel of the Philippine armed forces and in order to comply with the spirit and purpose of the said agreement

between our two Governments, I have the honor to suggest that the present United States Naval Training Unit be either retained or ab-

sorbed by the United States Military Advsory Group.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

ELPIDIO QUIRINO.

His Excellency EMMET O'NEAL American Ambassador

United States Embassy Manila

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Philippine Secretary of Foreign Affairs

No. 1335 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA May 6, 1948

I have the honor to advert to Your Excellency's note of December 9, 1947 referring to the Ambassador's note No. 0039 , September 26,
1947 in regard to a proposed agreement by exchange of notes which would cover the transfer of title, notwithstanding the provisions of 61 p. 3284Stat . , Pt . 3, Article V of the Military Assistance Agreement of March 21 , 1947, . to certain naval vessels which would be made available under charter

to the Philippine Government by the United States Navy in accordance with the terms of the latter Agreement.

60 Stat. 315. 50 U.S. C. app . §§P1h8i6l1i-p1p8i6n6e. Government exceptions to Charter.

The second paragraph of Your Excellency's note states, referring to the form of "Naval Charter for Lease of Vessels under United States Public Law454, 79th Congress" as an "Agreement" :
"After a study of the proposed agreement, I am happy to inform you that the draft is satisfactory to the Philippine Government with the exception of the following observations :

"(a) That the lists of vessels referred to in the first paragraph of the note which will be annexed to the agreement shall

62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-LEASE OF VESSELS- Sept. 26, Dec. 9, 1947 May 6, June 7, 1948

3877

include only such vessels as may be selected by the Republic of the Philippines acting through the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.
(b) That the vessels so selected by the Republic of the Philippines through its Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces shall be
accepted by the charterers in A-1 operational condition complete with all items of equipment, appliances, fuel consumable stores and spare and replacement parts in accordance with the standard table of allowances.

"With the above understanding, I shall be ready to sign the agree-

E

ment in behalf of my Government. "

A

copy

of

Your

Excellency's

note

having

been

sent

to

the

of Commander,U. 9. Naval

Forces, Philippines. mander, United States Naval Forces, Philippines, the latter com-

mented to his superiors at Washington as follows :

"(a) The provision that only such vessels as may be selected by the Republic of the Philippines will be transferred under the charter, is agreeable to this command.
"(b) The provision that such vessels as are selected by the Republic of the Philippines shall be in A-1 condition, complete with all items of equipment, appliances, fuel, consumable stores and spare and replacement parts in accordance with the standard table of allowances, is not in accordance with present directives. Neither the basic agreement under which the vessels are being transferred nor the proposed procedure for the charter require the U. S. Government to furnish fuel or consumable stores on a non- reimburseble basis. Items of equipment, appliances and spare parts are furnished on a basis of whether or not they are in the area and excess to the needs of the Navy.
"(c) This command is necessarily guided in the entire vessel transfer program by directives from higher authority. Such directives, to date, specify that every attempt shall be made to make vessels scheduled for transfer operable in so far as possible. No funds are available for a greater amount of work nor for the supplying of stores or spares which would have to be procured elsewhere than from Navy excess stocks."
The Chief of Naval Operations on April 15 , 1948 expressed concurrence with the foregoing comments by COMNAVPHIL upon the Philippine reservations , as copied above, and, in turn, I have been authorized by the Secretary of State of my Government to convey those views to Your Excellency as representing the decision of that highest professional United States Navy authority.
Assuming the continuance of the interest of the Department of National Defense in acquiring the vessels in question, it would seem only fair to report to Your Excellency that information has informally come to the Embassy that, because of impending appropriation expirations, it would be desirable to arrange to take deliveries before June 30, 1948.

Concurrence .

3878

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
THOMAS H. LOCKETT Charge d'Affaires a.i. His Excellency ELPIDIO QUIRINO, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines.

The Philippine Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

MANILA, June 7, 1948

SIR :

I wish to refer to His Excellency the United States Ambassador's note ( 1335) of May 6, 1948, in connection with our note of December

9, 1947 replying to the Ambassador's note of September 26, 1947, regarding a proposed agreement by exchange of notes which would

61 Stat. , Pt . 3 , p. 3284.

cover the transfer of title, notwithstanding the provisions of Article V of the Military Assistance Agreement of March 21, 1947, to certain naval vessels which would be made available under charter to

Ante, p. 3876. Ante, p. 3875.

the Philippine Government by the United States Navy in accordance with the terms of the latter Agreement.
The third and fourth paragraphs of the Ambassador's note of May 6, 1948, in considering the Philippine reservations expressed in the second paragraph of our note of December 9, 1947, state :

"A copy of Your Excellency's note having been sent to the Commander, United States Naval Forces, Philippines, the latter commented to his superiors at Washington as follows :

' (a) The provision that only such vessels as are selected by the Republic of the Philippines will be transferred under the charter, is agreeable to this command.
(b) The provision that such vessels as are selected by the Republic of the Philippines shall be in A-1 condition , complete with all items of equipment, appliances, fuel, consumable stores and spare and replacement parts in accordance with the standard
table of allowances, is not in accordance with present directives. Neither the basic agreement under which the vessels are being transferred nor the proposed procedure for the charter require the U. S. Government to furnish fuel or consumable stores on a non-reimbursable basis. Items of equipment, appliances and spare parts are furnished on a basis of whether or not they are in the area and excess to the needs of the Navy.
(c) This command is necessarily guided in the entire vessel transfer program by directives from higher authority. Such directives, to date, specify that every attempt shall be made to

Sept. 26 , Dec. 9, 1947
62 STAT. ] PHILIPPINES-LEASE OF VESSELSMay 6, June 7, 1948

3879

make vessels scheduled for transfer operable in so far as possible. No funds are available for a greater amount of work nor for the supplying of stores or spares which would have to be procured elsewhere than from Navy excess stocks .'

"The Chief of Naval Operations on April 15, 1948 expressed concurrence with the foregoing comments by COMNAVPHIL upon the Philippine reservations, as copied above, and, in turn, I have been authorized by the Secretary of State of my Government to convey those views to your Excellency as representing the decision of that highest professional United States Navy authority."

I am glad to inform you that, after proper consideration by the appropriate Philippine authority, the Government of the Republic of the Philippines hereby accepts the conditions of transfer as herein-

above set forth by the Commander, United States Naval Forces, Phil-

ippines, and concurred in by the Chief of Naval Operations of the

United States, in so far as they affect the provisions of the proposed "Naval Charter for Lease of Vessels under United States Public Law No. 454, 79th Congress".
My Government also hereby expresses its desire to take title to the

Ante, p. 3871.
60 Stat. 315. 50 U.S. C. app .
$ 1861-1866.

vessels in question and to enter into such an agreement for the transfer

of title to any or all of the vessels as an exception and notwithstanding the provisions of Article V of the Military Assistance Agreement, on the understanding that such action applies only to naval vessels

61 Stat ., Pt . 3, p. 3284.

covered by the proposed Charter and does not establish a precedent

for future transfers that may be made of other vessels or of other

equipment, which transfers in the absence of special agreements such

as that provided for herein, would be guided by Article V of the Mili-

tary Assistance Agreement. My Government considers the Ambassa-

dor's notes of September 26, 1947 and May 6, 1948 and our note of December 9, 1947 as constituting an agreement to modify the provisions of Article V of the Military Assistance Agreement with respect

Ante, pp. 3870, 3876, 3875.

to this particular transaction. It will therefore be highly appreciated if appropriate steps may be

taken by the Embassy for an expeditious transfer of title of these vessels to the Republic of the Philippines in accordance with Article IX of the proposed charter so that we may have full authority to use these vessels in any way deemed expedient. The Honorable, the Secretary of National Defense, an official of this Government, will be designated to sign the agreement in behalf of the Government of the

Ante, p. 3873.

Republic of the Philippines.

Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my high consideration.

BERNABE AFRICA

THOMAS H. LOCKETT, Esquire
Charge d'Affaires, a. i. American Embassy, Manila

Bernabe Africa Undersecretary

3880

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

July 8, 29, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1958]

Agreement between the United States of America and Colombia respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia, modifying and extending the agreement of February 14 and 19, 1946. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Bogotá July 8 and 29, 1948; entered into force July 31 , 1948, operative retroactively from June 30, 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Colombian Minister of Foreign Relations

No. 151

BOGOTA, July 8, 1948

EXCELLENCY : Extension proposed. I have the honor to refer to the notes exchanged by the Ambassador

of the United States to Colombia and His Excellency the Minister of

p.62188S0.tat . , Pt . 3 ,

Foreign Affairs of Colombia, dated February 14 and 19, 1946, respectively, and to the Basic Agreement subsequently entered into during the same month between the Government of Colombia and

The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, which notes and agreement

provided for the continuation of the existing cooperative health and sanitation program in Colombia. I also refer to Your Excellency's

note of July 7, 1948, [ ' ] suggesting the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.
As Your Excellency knows, the mentioned Basic Agreement pro-

vides that the cooperative health and sanitation program will terminate on June 30, 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits

which both governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Colombia that an extension of

such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the De-

partment of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1948 , through June

Contributions by 30, 1949. It would be understood that, during such period of extenU. S. and Colombia.
sion, the Institute would make a contribution of $ 60,000.00 United
States currency to the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud

Publica, for use in carrying out project activities of the program, on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for

the same purpose the sum of 1,000,000 pesos. The Institute would

also be willing, during the same extension period, to make available

funds to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Health and Sanitation Division Field Staff , who

are maintained by the Institute in Colombia. The amounts referred

to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] COLOMBIA--HEALTH AND SANITATION- JULY 8, 29, 1948

3881

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible. in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Health and Sanitation and The Institute of Inter -American Affairs.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the present Note and your reply Note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature [ 1 ] of an Agreement by the Minister of Hygiene of Colombia and by a Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above mentioned technical details.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
WILLARD L. BEAULAC
His Excellency Doctor EDUARDO ZULETA ANGEL, Minister of Foreign Relations, Colombia.

Entry into force.

The Colombian Minister of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES
OI- 570-

BOGOTÁ, julio 29 de 1948.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Me honro en avisar recibo a Vuestra Excelencia de su nota

número 151 fechada el 8 de julio de 1948, en la cual se esbozan las

condiciones en que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América está dispuesto a aceptar una prórroga del Convenio básico entre el

Gobierno de Colombia y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, que

dispone la continuación del programa cooperativo de salubridad y saneamiento de Colombia.

Me complazco en manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno

conviene en la prórroga proyectada de aquel Convenio, sobre la base expuesta en la nota de Vuestra Excelencia y que, por tanto, el

Gobierno de Colombia considerará que la nota de Vuestra Excelencia y la presente respuesta de conformidad, constituyen un Convenio cele-

brado entre nuestros dos Gobiernos , el cual entrará en vigencia desde el día en que el Ministro de Higiene de Colombia y un representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos firmen un Convenio que incluya los detalles técnicos de dicha prórroga.

' July 31 , 1948.

3882

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
Con este motivo, me es grato renovar a Vuestra Excelencia los sentimientos de mi más elevada consideración.
EDUARDO ZULETA A
Eduardo Zuleta Angel.
A Su Excelencia el señor WILLARD L. BEAULAC, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Ciudad.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS
OI- 570

BOGOTÁ, July 29, 1948.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

Ante, p. 3880.

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your Excellency's note No. 151 of July 8, 1948 , which outlines the conditions under which

the Government of the United States of America is prepared to accept

an extension of the Basic Agreement between the Government of

61 p. 2883Stat . , Pt . 3, Colombia and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs providing for . the continuation of the cooperative health and sanitation program of

Colombia .

I take pleasure in informing Your Excellency that my Government agrees to the extension contemplated of that Agreement on the basis set forth in Your Excellency's note, and that the Government of Colombia will, therefore, consider that Your Excellency's note and the present reply thereto constitute an agreement concluded between our two Governments which will come into force beginning with the date on which the Minister of Hygiene of Colombia and a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs sign an agreement which includes the technical details of the said extension.
I take pleasure in renewing to Your Excellency the expression of my highest consideration .
EDUARDO ZULETA A

Eduardo Zuleta Angel.

His Excellency WILLARD L. BEAULAC, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.

62 STAT. ] CANADA- COMMUNICATION SYSTEM- MAR. 1, 31, 1948

3883

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting the operation and maintenance of a land line communication system between Edmonton, Alberta, and Fairbanks , Alaska . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Washington March 1 and 31 , 1948; entered into force March 31 , 1948.

March 1, 31, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1966)

The Canadian Ambassador to the Secretary of State

CANADIAN EMBASSY AMBASSADE DU CANADA

No. 95 SIR :

MARCH 1 , 1948.

I have the honour to refer to Canadian- United States discussions

which were held in Ottawa from October 31 to November 2 , 1946, con-

cerning the future operation and maintenance of the war-built land

line communication system between Edmonton, Alberta, and Fairbanks, Alaska.

2. At these meetings it was recommended , subject to the consideration and approval of the Permanent Joint Board on Defence, that a number of facilities from Edmonton to the Alaskan border should be assigned for exclusive use of the United States, the annual rental to be $271,000.
3. Subsequently at a meeting of the Permanent Joint Board on Defence on November 19-20, 1946, a report of these meetings was considered and approved, and on April 1, 1947, the Canadian Department of Transport made these facilities available to the United States authorities. At the present time the Canadian Government's Operating Agency, the Canadian National Telegraph, who are responsible for the operation and maintenance of the system on Canadian soil, are forwarding monthly accounts for the rental of these facilities to the Commanding Officer, Alaska Communications System, in Seattle, but payments have not been made as formal authority for the lease has not yet been arranged.
4. The Permanent Joint Board on Defence therefore recommended at the meeting of September 11-12, 1947 :

"Communication Circuits of the Alaska Highway
The Board noted that the United States forces have definite need of the voice and teletype circuits along the Alaska Highway and that the Canadian authorities have made the circuits available. The Board approves this arrangement and recommends that the contract covering it be signed by the competent Canadian authorities as soon as possible, in order that accounts may be paid." 5. In order that the lease of these facilities may therefore be arranged on a governmental basis, my Government wishes to recommend that this lease be implemented as outlined in Annex I of this note.

3884

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

6. I should therefore be glad if you would inform me whether your Government is agreeable to these arrangements . Your favourable reply to this note will be considered as constituting an inter-governmental agreement with respect to the facilities outlined in Annex I of this note.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration. HHWRONG
The Honourable GEORGE C. MARSHALL, Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure]

ANNEX I

ARTICLE 1

Communication facilities available to

The Government of Canada agrees to make available to the Govern-

U.S.

ment of the United States of America the following communication

facilities over the telephone and telegraph lines, owned by the Gov-

ernment of Canada , and located along the Alaska Highway in Canada,

between Edmonton, Alberta, and the border of the territory of Alaska and Canada :-

A. for voice frequency only, (a) Two channels, Edmonton to the said border (b) Two channels, Whitehorse to the said border (c ) One channel , Whitehorse to Edmonton.
B. for standard teletype frequency only (d) Two channels, Edmonton to the said border (e) Three channels, Whitehorse to said border.

ARTICLE 2

Payment by U.S.

The Government of the United States of America shall pay the Government of Canada for the use of the said communication facili-

ties the sum of $271,000, in United States funds, for the year commencing April 1, 1947. Payments shall in future be made in equal

monthly instalments but payment for the period from April 1st 1947

to February 29th 1948, shall be paid in one instalment forthwith upon the conclusion of this agreement.

The Government of the United States of America agrees to pay for

the use of such additional communication facilities as may be required

by the said Government and as may otherwise be available for use,

at such rates and charges as are adopted as standard in respect of

Credit for reductions and readjustments .

the telephone and telegraph lines located along the Alaska Highway in Canada.
The Government of Canada agrees to credit the Government of the United States of America for reductions and readjustments of

facilities in accordance with the prevailing rates that are adopted

62 STAT. ] CANADA-COMMUNICATION SYSTEM-MAR. 1, 31 , 1948

3885

as standard in respect of the telephone and telegraph lines located

along the Alaska Highway in Canada, provided that the total annual aggregate payments by the Government of the United States of

America do not fall below the amount of $271,000 per annum above stated.

ARTICLE 3

The two Governments agree that the said communication facilities between Edmonton , Alberta, and the Alaska-Canada border, which are a continuation of and connected with similar communication

Simultaneous use and operation by Canada and U.S.

facilities owned by the Government of the United States of America and extending from the said border to Fairbanks, Alaska, are capable of use and operation only if, when and to the extent that the communication facilities owned by the Government of the United States of America and located in Alaska as aforesaid, are simultaneously maintained in use and operation and are available.
It is further agreed between the said Governments that payments reserved under Article 2 hereof shall accrue only if and to the extent that the communication facilities made available hereunder by the Government of Canada are properly maintained for use and operation.

ARTICLE 4

The two Governments agree that the portions of telephone and telegraph lines owned by the Government of Canada and located in

Maintenance .

Canada along the Alaska Highway, shall be maintained by the Government of Canada, and that the said lines owned by the Government of the United States of America and located in the territory of Alaska ,

shall be maintained by the Government of the United States of America ; and that such maintenance shall be carried out in accordance with standard practice.
ARTICLE 5

Duration of agreeThis agreement shall remain in force during the period the tele- ment. phone and telegraph lines, aforesaid, extending from Edmonton, Alberta, to Fairbanks, Alaska, are maintained by the respective Governments.
ARTICLE 6

Supplementary arrangements for the purpose of giving effect to this Supplementary arrangements .
agreement may be made between the operating departments or
agencies of the respective Governments.

ARTICLE 7

Subject to the provision of Article 5, this agreement shall remain in force until such time as the two Governments mutually agree that it shall cease or until either Government shall have given one year's notice to the other Government of intention to terminate the agreement.

Termination .

3886
Ante, p. 3883. Ante, p. 3884. Acceptance.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Canadian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON Mar 31 1948

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to your note No. 95 , dated March 1, 1948, concerning the future operation and maintenance of the war-built land-line communication system between Edmonton, Alberta, and Fairbanks, Alaska. Your note summarized the results of discussions held on this subject in the Permanent Joint Board on Defense and recommended that the lease of these facilities be arranged on a governmental basis as outlined in Annex I enclosed with your note.
I am pleased to inform you that the proposals set forth in your note No. 95 and in Annex I thereto are accepted by this Government. This Government also concurs in the proposal that your note and this reply shall be regarded as constituting the agreement arrived at between the two Governments with respect to the facilities outlined in Annex I of your note.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

His Excellency HUME WRONG, Canadian Ambassador.

ROBERT A. LOVETT Acting Secretary

62 STAT. ] MEXICO- AGRICULTURAL WORKERS--FEB. 20, 21, 1948

3887

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting temporary migration of Mexican agricultural workers, superseding the agreements of April 26, 1943, and March 10, 1947. Effected by exchange of notes signed at México , D. F. , February 20 and 21 , 1948; entered into force February 21 , 1948.

February 20, 21 , 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1968]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Mexican Secretary for

Foreign Relations

No. 1776

MEXICO, D. F. , February 20 , 1948

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to conversations which have recently been held in El Paso , Texas, and in Mexico City between representatives of the United States of America and the United Mexican States with

the object of arriving at a mutual and satisfactory agreement for the further recruiting of Mexican agricultural workers for the United States, and to the results of these conversations by which an agreement was signed between the said representatives on February 17, 1948. The text of the agreement is as follows :

"MIGRATION OF MEXICAN AGRICULTURAL WORKERS

"In view of the termination on December 31 , 1947 , of the joint administration of the Agreement of April 26 , 1943 , under which Mexican agricultural workers temporarily migrated to the United States to cooperate in agricultural production in that country, and in view of the continued need for additional agricultural workers in certain regions of the United States, the Embassy of the United States in Mexico City, in a note to the Mexican Foreign Office dated November 10 , 1947 , [ ] proposed conversations between representatives of the two Governments to formulate recommendations as to conditions and terms to govern future employment of Mexican agricultural workers in the United States. The Mexican Government expressed agreement to the proposed discussions and named the following delegation :
"AS DELEGATES : Alfonso Guerra, Executive Officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs ; Lic . Horacio Teran, Executive Officer of the Department of the Interior ; Colonel Raul Michel, Consul General of Mexico at El Paso , Texas ; and Lic . Celso Ledesma Labastida , Chief Counselor, Department of Labor and Social Welfare .
"AS ADVISERS : Arcadio Ojeda García, Chief of Immigration Service, Department of the Interior ; Lic. Guillermo García Maynez , Counselor of the Labor Department ; Roberto S. Urrea, Consul of Mexico at El Paso , Texas ; Alberto Monroy, Chief of the Interdepartmental Office, Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua ; José Reyes Nava, Chief of the Interdepartmental Office at Reynosa , Tamaulipas, Mexico ; Joaquin Terra-

57 Stat. 1152.

1 Not printed.

3888 Contracts.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
zas, Chief of the Interdepartmental Office , Mexicali , Baja California; and Daniel Chavez , Viceconsul of Mexico at El Paso, Texas.
"The United States Government at the same time designated the following delegation ;
"AS DELEGATES : William G. MacLean, Economic Adviser, Division of Mexican Affairs, Department of State ; Watson B. Miller, Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization ; and Willard F. Kelly, Assistant Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, of the Department of Justice ; and Walter Erb, Acting Assistant Director for Farm Placement , United States Employment Service , Department of Labor.
"AS ADVISERS : Albert D. Misler , Chief Attorney, Department of Labor ; William A. Whalen , District Director, United States Immigra tion and Naturalization Service, San Antonio, Texas ; Grover C. Wilmoth, District Director, United States Immigration and Naturalization Service, El Paso, Texas ; William A. Carmichael, District Director, United States Immigration and Naturalization Service, Los Angeles, California ; Robert H. Robinson, Examiner, United States Immigration and Naturalization Service ; Stephen E. Aguirre, Consul of the United States of America, Ciudad Juárez , Chihuahua, Mexico ; and G. Wallace La Rue, Consul of the United States of America, Ciudad Juárez , Chihuahua , Mexico.
"The two delegations having met in joint session in the City of El Paso, Texas , from November 20, 1947 , to December 2 , 1947, followed by a further meeting in Mexico on February 9-11 , 1948 , between Mr. Maurice L. Stafford , First Secretary of the Embassy of the United States, and Dr. Alfonso Guerra , Oficial Mayor of the Ministry for Foreign Relations of the United Mexican States, and after full reconsideration of every prospect of the problem adopts the following resolutions as recommendations to their respective Governments with the understanding that they are to be made effective between the two Governments, if approved , by an exchange of notes through diplomatic channels, both delegations being in accord in recommending to their respective Governments that from the date of said notes, all future contracting of Mexican agricultural workers for employment in the United States, as well as the recontracting of those Mexican
workers actually in the United States, should be governed by the terms of this Agreement .
"1. The contracts, whether renewals or new, will be on a direct worker to employer basis , with intervention by the two Governments, which shall oversee their observance in the form specified in this document. It is mutually understood that the term " employer" refers to the owner or operator of an agricultural property in the United States or to an association of such , and that the term "worker" refers to a Mexican national who is an agricultural worker.
"2. The form of contract which should be used accompanies this agreement, with the understanding that if it is considered necessary to make fundamental changes therein, such changes shall be the subject of consultation and agreement between the two Governments through diplomatic channels .

62 STAT. ] MEXICO-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS - FEB. 20, 21, 1948

3889

"3. Employers in the United States will be permitted to contract Mexican agricultural workers under this agreement for employment in

a previously specified area. The appropriate authorities of the United States will inform those of Mexico three months in advance

of the number of workers which may be required for the following

period, and the Government of Mexico will make available the maximum number compatible with the labor needs of the Republic of Mexico . Said employers must (a) have certification by the United

Certification of need.

States Employment Service of the United States Department of Labor that workers are needed in that specified area, and that domestic workers are not available at prevailing wages in that area, and (b) be in possession of written authorization from the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the United States to bring in a specified number of such workers .

Authorization.

"A copy of the certification mentioned in section (a) above shall

be forwarded directly to the Mexican Ministry of Labor by the

United States Employment Service. In order that the workers may have previous knowledge of the nature of the employment offered , the employer will furnish them complete information at the contract-

ing centers, with the assistance of the Mexican authorities, in regard to name and address of employer, climate in the place of employment, salaries, and all other pertinent data.

"4. The authorizations specified in section (b) of the preceding paragraph should be granted only to those employers who post a bond or other satisfactory collateral with the Immigration and

Naturalization Service sufficiently large to guarantee the return of the worker to his place of contract in Mexico without cost to him.
"5. Mexican workers entering the United States under the terms

Military service.

of this agreement shall not be obligated to engage in any military service.

"6. In accordance with Executive Order No. 9346, issued by the President of the United States on May 27, 1943 , Mexican workers in the United States under this agreement shall not suffer discrimina-

Discriminatory acts.
3CFR, Cum. Supp., p. 1280.

tory acts of any kind. For the purposes of this article the appro-

priate agencies of both Governments shall cooperate.

"7. Mexicans

entering the

United

States

under this

agreement

Displacement of other workers; reduc

shall not be employed to displace other workers , or for the purpose of tion in rates of pay.

reducing rates of pay previously established . "8. Contracts will be made between the employer and the worker
under the supervision of a representative of each of the two Govern-

Exchange of diplomatic notes.

ments , and they must be written in Spanish and in English . The places of contract in the Republic of Mexico shall be freely determined by the Government of Mexico and advice thereof given to the American Government within three months from the time of notification of

the number of workers needed by means of an exchange of diplomatic
notes between the two Governments. It is understood that they shall
not be south of a line from coast to coast through Guadalajara and
Querétaro . "The transportation of the worker from the place of contract to Transportation expenses.
the place of employment and return to place of contract in Mexico ,

3890

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

as well as food, lodging, and other expenses en route, including up to

35 kilograms of personal objects but not including furniture, shall be

Physical tions.

examina-

at the expense of the employer. "9. Mexican health authorities at the place of contracting will see
that the worker meets the necessary physical conditions, and officials of the United States Public Health Service will cooperate in this

examination and at the same time will make the examinations required as a condition of entrance into the United States, without waiving in the latter case the right to further examination at the border, un which case workers who fail to pass this second examination shall be given transportation back to the place of contract.

" 10. All transportation and living expenses from the place of contract to the place of employment and return , as well as any expenses

incurred in the fulfillment of any requirements of a migratory nature,

Wages.

shall be met by the employer. "11. Wages to be paid the worker shall be the same as those paid

for similar work to domestic agricultural workers under the same conditions within the same area, in the respective areas of employ-

ment. Piece rates shall be so set as to enable the worker of average

ability to earn the prevailing wage . In any case the worker shall

not be paid less than he would earn at the hourly rate set forth in the

Individual Work Agreement, which shall be fixed taking into consideration the cost of living in the United States at the time of con-

tracting. Where higher wages are paid for specialized tasks such as

the operation of vehicles or machinery, Mexican workers shall be

Transfer to another locality .

entitled to such wages while assigned to such tasks . "12. The worker shall not be transferred from the place of employ-
ment to another locality without the express approval of the worker and the Mexican Consul with jurisdiction in the place of employment

from which transfer is under consideration .

Wage deductions, limitation .

"13. No deductions of any kind shall be made from the wages of the workers except those specifically provided in the individual contract or required by law.

Hygienic lodgings.

"14. The Mexican workers will be furnished , without cost to them,

with hygienic lodgings, adequate to the physical condition of the area

and of a type used by the domestic agricultural workers of the area.

Occupational diseases and accidents.

"15. Workers admitted under this understanding shall enjoy as

regards occupational diseases and accidents the same guarantees

enjoyed by domestic agricultural workers under applicable state or

federal legislation in the United States . The employer shall provide medicines and medical attention , in accordance with prevailing laws,

customs or practices, or , in the absence of such, in accordance with

equitable and just principles . When the employer provides medical attention to the worker because of acts of negligence of a third person,

the employer shall be subrogated in the right of the worker to recover
the cost of such medical care .
Contact representa- "16. Groups of workers admitted under this agreement shall have tives.
the right to elect their own representatives , from among the members

of the group , to maintain contact between the workers and the

employers .

62 STAT. ] MEXICO-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-FEB. 20, 21, 1948

3891

"17. The United States Employment Service of the United States

U.S. Employment Service good offices.

Department of Labor shall lend its good offices to the contracting

parties with a view to obtaining full compliance with the terms of this

agreement and the individual contract. The worker may request

these good offices direct or through the Mexican Consul having

jurisdiction in the place of employment. "18. The Mexican Consuls or their duly accredited representatives, icParnoctoencstuilosn,beytcM.exi-

within their corresponding jurisdiction, in cooperation with the representatives of the United States Employment Service or the Immigration and Naturalization Service , will take all possible measures of protection in the interest of the Mexican workers in all questions affecting them , and the employer will grant such officials access to the place of employment when it is necessary not only for the protection of the worker but also for the maintenance of good relations
between the employer and the worker. Limitation of work
"19. The Government of Mexico reiterates its intention to limit periods. the contracting of workers to two periods of six months (one year) in order that the workers may not lose their ties with their homeland . However, it manifests its agreement that ten per cent of workers experienced in agricultural work may be recontracted for an additional period of six months in order that they may cooperate in the training of new contingents which enter the United States under the

present agreement.
Illegal use of work"20. Permission to contract workers will not be granted to those ers.

employers who use workers illegally in the United States.
Legal residents of "21. With a view to impeding the migration to the United States of border towns.

workers who have their permanent residence in Border towns, it is

suggested to the delegation of the United States that those who are

in this category be documented by the Mexican migration authorities

only with Card Form 5-C, which only gives them the right to cross

to the adjacent towns and not to be contracted for work in the interior

of the United States. Therefore all such who are clearly shown to be

legal residents of Border towns should be excluded from contracts . "22. The delegation of the United States will recommend to its
Government the continuance of present instructions to its diplomatic

Documentation as permanent residents
of U.S., restriction.

and consular representatives in Mexico, with a view to having them

abstain, as they have done to date, from documenting as permanent

residents of the United States, persons whose passports do not cate-

gorically so specify, with the exception of those who have family ties in that country.
"23. When there arises a case of violation by the employer of the Individual Work Agreement or of the conditions under which au-

Violation of Individual Work Agree. ment.

thority for the admission of the workers to the United States has been

issued, or there has been a violation by the worker of the conditions

under which he was admitted , the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service will withdraw said authority or will cause the removal of the worker or workers involved , as the case may be, after

the measures specified in the Individual Work Agreement have been completed .
68706-52- PT. III- -81

3892

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Maximum employment and wage rates. "24. The United States Delegation declares that in view of the
existing situation that does not permit the representative of the

United States Department of Labor to fix a minimum weekly wage

rate, because of lack of statutory authority , said Department will

use its good offices in order that the Mexican workers may obtain

maximum employment and wage rates. However, information in

regard to salary and working conditions is to be circulated among the

Ante, p . 3889.

workers in the contracting centers , in the manner specified in the final paragraph of Article 3 of this agreement with a view that the workers

themselves may be in a position to decline employment offered if the

contracting conditions and wage rates do not appear to be to their interests .

Withholding of percentage of wages.

"25. With a view to establishing savings funds, the employer shall

withhold currently from the wages of the worker ten per cent of the

wages due him and in regular pay days shall furnish him a signed

acknowledgment in writing, typewritten or in ink, of the amount

which has been withheld during the pay period . All wages so with-

held are to be paid the worker upon termination of the contract in a certified or cashier's bank check to his order which must bear the stamp

of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service which shall be affixed at the time the worker crosses the international border

into Mexico ; such check shall be in dollars and in a form negotiable through any bank in Mexico once it has been endorsed as indicated.
"26. Article IX of the Consular Convention between the United

57 Stat. 811.

States of America and the United Mexican States, formalized between the two Governments on August 12, 1942 , shall apply in regard to

Change of status.

Mexican workers in the case of all rights established therein. "27. The Mexican Government reserves the right to require a

Renewal of contracts.

change of status of any Mexican workers involved, after a study of the circumstances in case labor questions arise.
"28. Renewal of existing contracts may be made within the terms of this agreement on the conditions that all workers whose contracts

Illegal migration. Publicity.

are so renewed will retain their right to be returned to their place of contracting in Mexico .
"29. With a view to cooperation in the objective of this agreement the appropriate authorities of both Governments shall take all proper measures to prevent the illegal migration of Mexican agricultural workers to the United States and to insure the prompt repatriation of Mexican workers illegally in the United States.
"30. Both delegations will recommend to their respective Governments the greatest publicity for these measures and their underlying reasons, in order that the authorities charged with their application

can count upon the fullest support of public opinion in both countries,

Failure to return to Mexico.
Liberty to purchase personal articles.

this publicity to be made simultaneously and on a date to be agreed upon by both Chanceries ,
"31. The presence in United States territory of workers who fail to return to Mexico after the period for which they are contracted or recontracted shall be considered illegal.
"32. The worker shall enjoy absolute liberty to purchase articles for his personal use in the place most convenient to him.

62 STAT. ] MEXICO- AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-FEB. 20, 21 , 1948

3893

Guarantee of em"33. The employer guarantees the worker the opportunity for em- ployment.
ployment for three quarters of the work days of the total period during

which the Individual Work Agreement is, in fact , in effect . If the

employer affords the worker, during such period , less employment than

required under this provision , the worker shall be entitled to be paid

the amount which he would have earned had he , in fact, worked for

the guaranteed number of days .

In determining whether the guarantee of employment provided

for in this paragraph has been met, any day on which the worker

fails to work, when afforded the opportunity to do so by the Employer,

shall be counted as a day of employment in calculating the days of

employment toward the satisfaction of this guarantee. "For each work-day (except Sundays ) on which the worker is

Subsistence .

willing to work and is physically able to carry on his work, and he is not employed for more than four hours , he will receive subsistence without cost to him. Said subsistence shall consist of three meals

a day or their equivalent in cash. Workers accompa-
"34. The officials of the United States Immigration and Labor nied by families.
Services shall not aid in the contracting of workers who are accom-

panied by their families . "35. The proper authorities of the Government of the United
States, in representation of the employers , are empowered, in coopera-

Formulation of instructions, etc.

tion with the Mexican authorities , to formulate the instructions

necessary to facilitate both the sojourn of workers in the United

States as well as the best interpretation of the several clauses of the labor contract.

The agreement set forth herein shall become effective through an

exchange of notes between the two Governments , and shall supersede the agreements of April 26 , 1943 , and of March 10, 1947 , on this subject, except in the case of workers now in the United States

57 Stat. 1152; 61 Stat., Pt. 4, p. 4097.

who, if recontracted , will be protected by said agreement in regard to

transportation, lodging, and subsistence from place of employment to the place of original contracting . It shall continue in force until

modified by mutual agreement or terminated by written notification

of either Government, which shall become effective thirty days after the receipt of such notes.

"36. The recontracting of Mexican laborers now in the United States will be effected immediately after this agreement is approved

by both Governments. The first regular contracting within the

Republic of Mexico will be effected one month after the exchange

of notes and subsequent contracting in accordance with the provisions

of Article 8 thereof.

Ante, p. 3889.

By reason of the absence of the members of the United States and
Mexican delegations who participated in the conversations at El Paso, Texas, and who are mentioned at the beginning of this document, the representatives intervening in the final revision, after reaching an agreement on each one of the articles thereof, signed the same at Mexico City on the 17th day of February, 1948 .

Signatures.

3894 Acceptance.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

"For the United States. Delegation.
(signed) Maurice L. Stafford First Secretary of the Embassy of the United States of America .

For the Mexican Delegation.
(signed) Alfonso Guerra Oficial Mayor of the Ministry for Foreign Relations."

I am instructed to state that the Government of the United States is in accord with and accepts the agreement entered into by representatives of the two Governments on February 17 , 1948 as cited above.
If this agreement is acceptable to the Government of Mexico , the Government of the United States of America is prepared to regard the present note and Your Excellency's reply concurring therein as constituting an agreement between the two Governments which shall take effect on the date of Your Excellency's reply.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim RAYMOND H. GEIST

His Excellency Señor Don JAIME TORRES BODET Secretary for Foreign Relations Mexico, D. F.

The Mexican Secretary for Foreign Relations to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES ESTADOS UNIDOS MEXICANOS MEXICO

No. 3377.

MÉXICO, D. F., 21 de febrero de 1948.

SEÑOR ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS:

Me es grato referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Señoría número 1776 fechada ayer, que a la letra dice:

"Tengo el honor de referirme a las conversaciones celebradas recientemente en El Paso , Texas, y en la ciudad de México entre representantes de los Estados Unidos de América y de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos con objeto de llegar a un mutuo y satisfactorio acuerdo para la nueva contratación de trabajadores agrícolas mexicanos con destino a los Estados Unidos, así como a los resultados de estas conversaciones mediante las cuales fué firmado un convenio entre los mencionados representantes, el 17 de febrero de 1948. El texto del convenio es como sigue: - "Migración de trabajadores agrícolas
mexicanos . - En atención a que el treintiuno de diciembre de 1947 prescribió la vigencia de los acuerdos reformados el veintiseis de abril de mil novecientos cuarentitrés, mediante los cuales se establecieron las condiciones a las que debería sujetarse la cooperación de traba-

62 STAT. ] MEXICO-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-FEB. 20, 21, 1948
jadores mexicanos en labores agrícolas en los Estados Unidos de América y considerando que persiste la necesidad de nuevos contingentes de dicha indole en algunas regiones de ese país, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , por conducto de su Embajada en la ciudad de México y mediante Nota presentada a la Cancillería mexicana con fecha diez de noviembre de 1947 , sugirió el intercambio de pláticas entre representantes de ambas partes, a fin de formular recomendaciones a los dos Gobiernos y determinar las condiciones bajo las cuales podrían efectuarse futuras contrataciones de carácter similar. La proposición fué aprobada por el Gobierno de México , designando para tal efecto una Delegación compuesta por los funcionarios siguientes: COMO DELEGADOS : Señores Alfonso Guerra, Oficial Mayor de la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores ; Horacio Terán, Oficial Mayor de la Secretaría de Gobernación ; Raúl Michel, Cónsul General de México en El Paso , Texas y Celso Ledesma Labastida , Jefe de Abogados de la Secretaría de Trabajo y Previsión Social . - COo Asesores : Señores Arcadio Ojeda García , Jefe del Servicio de Población , Secretaría de Gobernación ; Guillermo García Maynes, Abogado de la Secretaría de Trabajo ; Roberto S. Urrea, Cónsul de México en El Paso, Texas ; Alberto Monroy, Jefe de la Oficina Intersecretarial, Ciudad Juárez , Chihuahua ; José Reyes Nava, Jefe de la Oficina Intersecretarial, Reynosa , Tamaulipas ; Joaquín Terrazas, Jefe de la Oficina Intersecretarial, Mexicali , B. C. , y Daniel Chávez , Vicecónsul de México en El Paso, Texas. - El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , por su parte, integró su Delegación en la forma siguiente : - COMO DELEGADOS : Señores William G. MacLean , Consejero Económico , División de Asuntos Mexicanos, Departamento de Estado ; Watson B. Miller, Comisionado de Inmigración y Naturalización y Willard F. Kelly, Subcomisionado de Inmigración y Naturalización del Departamento de Justicia, y Walter Erb, Subdirector Encargado de Colocaciones Agrícolas , Departamento de Colocaciones de los Estados Unidos. - COMO ASESORES : Señores Albert D. Misler, Abogado , Departamento de Trabajo ; William A. Whalen , Director de Distrito, Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización de los Estados Unidos, San Antonio, Texas ; Grover G. Wilmoth, Director de Distrito , Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización de los Estados Unidos , El Paso , Texas ; William C. Carmichael, Director de Distrito , Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización de los Estados Unidos, Los Angeles, Calif.; Robert H. Robinson, Oficial Mayor, Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización de los Estados Unidos ; Stephen E. Aguirre, Cónsul de los Estados Unidos de América en Ciudad Juárez, Chih . , México y G. Wallace La Rue, Cónsul de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad Juárez , Chihuahua, México . - Reunidas dichas Delegaciones en la ciudad de El Paso , Texas , durante el período comprendido entre el 20 de Noviembre y el 2 de Diciembre de 1947 , las cuales se hicieron representar posteriormente en la ciudad de México por los Señores Alfonso Guerra, Oficial Mayor de la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores y Maurice L. Stafford , Primer Secretario de la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América , en reuniones que se efectuaron durante el período comprendido entre el 9 y el 11 de febrero de mil novecientos

3895

3896

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
cuarenta y ocho , con objeto de analizar todos los diversos aspectos del problema, llegaron a acuerdos que a título de recomendación someten a la consideración de sus respectivos Gobiernos y que al ser aprobados regirán en lo futuro tanto la contratación de trabajadores agrícolas mexicanos destinados a ser utilizados en los Estados Unidos, como la recontratación de los que se hallen actualmente en dicho
país . Las condiciones básicas para formalizar dichas contrataciones deberán ajustarse a las siguientes CLAUSULA S : - PRIMERA. - Los contratos o recontrataciones se celebrarán directamente entre el patrón y el trabajador, con la intervención de ambos Gobiernos que vigilarán su cumplimiento en la forma especificada en este documento . Ambas partes quedan entendidas de que el concepto "patrón" define al propietario o administrador de una finca agrícola en los Estados Unidos , o bien a una asociación de los mismos correspondiendo la mención "trabajador" , a un individuo de nacionalidad mexicana que presta sus servicios en labores agrícolas . - SEGUNDA. -El modelo de contrato que deberá utilizarse se acompaña al presente documento en el concepto de que, de estimarse necesario hacer cambios fundamentales en el mismo , tales cambios serán motivo de consulta y acuerdo que ambos Gobiernos determinarán por los conductos diplomáticos . TERCERA. - Conforme a los términos de este contrato, será permitida a los patrones o empleadores norteamericanos la contratación de trabajadores agrícolas mexicanos , para ser utilizados en una región previamente determinada . Las autoridades correspon-
dientes de los Estados Unidos manifestarán a las de México , con tres meses de anticipación el número de braceros que se requerirán para el período siguiente y México proporcionará el número máximo compatible con las necesidades de la República en mano de obra . Los patrones deberán : - a ) . - Presentar un certificado extendido por el Servicio de Colocaciones del Departamento de Trabajo de los Estados Unidos, que haga constar que en la zona especificada existe necesidad de trabajadores y que dentro de las condiciones prevalecientes en la misma región no hay trabajadores americanos disponibles. -b) . - Tener autorización escrita del Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización de los Estados Unidos que los autorice a introducir al país un número especificado de trabajadores . -c) .- Una copia de la certificación mencionada en el inciso (a ) preinserto será proporcionada directamente a la Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social de México, por el Departamento de Colocaciones de los Estados Unidos. Con el propósito de que los trabajadores tengan conocimiento previo de la naturaleza del trabajo ofrecido, el patrón les proporcionará una información completa en los puntos de contratación con el auxilio de
las autoridades mexicanas , en lo que se refiere a nombre , dirección del patrón, clima de la región de empleo , salarios y demás datos pertinentes . -CUARTA. - La autorización señalada en el inciso (b) del párrafo preinserto , se otorgará únicamente a los patrones que depositen en el Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización de los Estados Unidos, una fianza o garantía colateral que baste para garantizar el regreso del trabajador, sin costo alguno para él, al lugar de México en donde fué contratado. -QUINTA. - Los trabajadores mexicanos que entren a

62 STAT. ] MEXICO-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-FEB. 20, 21, 1948
territorio de los Estados Unidos al amparo de las estipulaciones de este Convenio no estarán obligados a prestar servicios militares.SEXTA. - Los trabajadores mexicanos que se encuentren en los Estados Unidos al amparo de las estipulaciones de este Acuerdo , no sufrirán actos discriminatorios de ninguna naturaleza , de acuerdo con lo dispuesto por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos de América, mediante su Orden número 9346 del veintisiete de mayo de mil novecientos cuarentitrés . Las oficinas de ambos Gobiernos cooperarán para la realización de las finalidades de esta cláusula . - SEPTIMA. Los nacionales mexicanos que entren a los Estados Unidos de conformidad con lo que el presente Convenio expresa , no serán empleados para desplazar a otros trabajadores , ni para abatir tarifas de salarios previamente establecidas . - OCTAVA. - Los contratos se celebrarán entre el patrón y el trabajador bajo la supervisión de un representante de cada uno de los dos Gobiernos y deberán estar escritos en español y en inglés . Los lugares de contratación en la República Mexicana serán determinados libremente por el Gobierno de México y comunicados al de los Estados Unidos dentro de un plazo no mayor de tres meses a partir de la fecha en que se conozca la solicitud americana, resolución que deberá darse a conocer mediante intercambio de Notas diplomáticas entre los dos Gobiernos. Quedan excluídos de dichos lugares los situados al sur de una línea de costa a costa que pase por Guadalajara y Querétaro. - El transporte del trabajador desde el lugar de contratación hasta el del empleo y de éste a dicho punto en México , así como la alimentación , alojamiento y demás gastos inherentes a su viaje de ida a los campos de trabajo y de regreso a México , incluyendo el transporte hasta de 35 kilogramos de objetos de uso personal, con exclusión de muebles de casa, serán por cuenta del patrón. - NOVENA. Las autoridades sanitarias mexicanas en el punto de contratación se encargarán del control sanitario de los trabajadores con objeto de asegurarse que reúnen las condiciones físicas necesarias para desempeñar el trabajo a que van destinados, exámenes médicos en los que cooperarán funcionarios del Departamento de Salubridad Pública de los Estados Unidos de América, quienes harán además la inspección que consideren necesaria para la admisión en dicho país de los contingentes que se seleccionen, sin perjuicio de poder hacer un nuevo examen en la frontera si lo consideran necesario, en cuyo caso , a los trabajadores que resulten rechazados después del segundo examen médico , se les proporcionarán, sin costo para ellos medios para regresar al punto de contratación. - DECIMA. - Los gastos de transporte, hospedaje y alimentación del lugar de contratación al de empleo y regreso, así como todos aquellos necesarios a la satisfacción de los requisitos migratorios serán por cuenta del patrón . - UNDECIMA. Los salarios que se paguen al trabajador serán los mismos que disfruten por labores similares los trabajadores agrícolas norteamericanos , en la zona de trabajo a la que los primeros vayan destinados , siendo idénticas sus condiciones de trabajo . Las cuotas por labores a destajo se fijarán en forma tal que capaciten a un trabajador de habilidad media a ganar el salario prevaleciente. El trabajador mexicano en ningún caso recibirá un pago inferior al que disfrutaría ,

3897

3898

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT,
de acuerdo con la cuota por hora que se estipule en el contrato individual de trabajo , la que será fijada tomando en consideración el costo de la vida en los Estados Unidos al efectuarse la contratación. En los lugares donde se paguen salarios mayores por trabajos especializados , tales como el manejo de vehículos o maquinaria , los trabajadores mexicanos tendrán derecho a tales salarios mayores cuando se les
asignen dichos trabajos. - DUODECIMA. - El Trabajador mexicano no podrá ser transladado de su lugar de empleo a otra localidad sin su pleno consentimiento y la aprobación del Cónsul de México , cuya jurisdicción comprenda la zona en que el trabajador preste sus servicios y de la cual se pretenda transladarlo. - DECIMATERCERA. -No se harán descuentos de ninguna clase de los salarios de los trabajadores, con excepción de aquellos previstos específicamente en el Contrato Individual requeridos por la ley. - DECIMACUARTA. - Los trabajadores mexicanos recibirán sin costo alguno para ellos , habitaciones higiénicas adecuadas a las condiciones físicas de la región, del tipo de las que habita un trabajador norteamericano en la misma. - DECIMAQUINTA.Los Trabajadores admitidos de acuerdo con este Convenio , gozarán, por lo que respecta a enfermedades y accidentes profesionales, de las mismas garantías de que disfruten los trabajadores agrícolas norteamericanos, conforme a lo prescrito por la legislación federal o estatal de los Estados Unidos . El patrón proporcionará medicinas y atención médica, de acuerdo con las Leyes vigentes, con las costumbres o prácticas o , en su defecto , de acuerdo con los principios de equidad y de justicia . Cuando el patrón se vea obligado a proporcionar atención médica por actos de negligencia de tercera persona, el patrón se reserva el derecho de recuperación en contra de esa tercera persona.DECIMASEXTA. - Los grupos de trabajadores admitidos conforme al presente acuerdo tendrán derecho a elegir a sus representantes de entre los miembros de su grupo , los cuales deben mantener el contacto entre trabajadores y patrones. - DECIMASEPTIMA. - El Servicio de Colocaciones, dependiente del Departamento del Trabajo en los Estados Unidos , prestará sus buenos oficios a las partes contratantes a fin de lograr un absoluto cumplimiento a los términos de este Acuerdo y a los del Contrato Individual de Trabajo. El trabajador podrá requerir estos buenos oficios , directamente o por conducto del Cónsul de México a cuya jurisdicción corresponda el lugar donde preste sus servicios. DECIMAOCTAVA. - Los Cónsules de México , sus auxiliares o representantes debidamente acreditados, dentro de sus respectivas jurisdicciones, en cooperación con los representantes del Servicio de Colocaciones y del Servicio de Inmigración de los Estados Unidos, tomarán todas las medidas que consideren necesarias para la protección de los intereses de los trabajadores mexicanos, obligándose los patrones a permitir el acceso de estos funcionarios a los lugares de trabajo cuando sea necesario tanto para la protección de los trabajadores como para el mantenimiento de buenas relaciones entre estos y el patrón. - DECIMANOVENA. - El Gobierno de México reitera su
propósito de que se limite la contratación de trabajadores a dos períodos de seis meses (un año ) con objeto de evitar su desvinculación de la Patria . Sin embargo , manifiesta su conformidad en que un 10%

62 STAT. ] MEXICO-AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-FEB. 20, 21 , 1948
de dichos trabajadores, experimentados en labores del campo, sean recontratados por un período adicional de seis meses, para que cooperen en el entrenamiento de los nuevos contingentes que se internen al amparo del presente arreglo. - VIGESIMA. - La autorización para contratar trabajadores mexicanos será negada de manera categórica a aquellos patrones que utilicen trabajadores internados ilegalmente en los Estados Unidos. - VIGESIMAPRIMERA.- Con objeto de impedir la inmigración en los Estados Unidos de Trabajadores que tengan su residencia permanente en las poblaciones fronterizas, se sugiere a la Delegación de los Estados Unidos que quienes se encuentren en estas condiciones sean documentados por las autoridades de Migración Mexicanas con la tarjeta forma 5-C únicamente, que sólo les da derecho para cruzar a las poblaciones aledañas y no para ser contratados para trabajar en el interior de los Estados Unidos. Por tanto todos aquellos que claramente sean residentes legales de dichos lugares fronterizos , serán excluídos de las contrataciones . - VIGESIMASEGUNDA . -La Delegación de los Estados Unidos recomendará a su Gobierno que refrende las instrucciones actuales a sus agentes diplomáticos y consulares en México en el sentido de que se abstengan, como lo han hecho , hasta ahora de documentar como residentes permanentes de los Estados Unidos a personas cuyo correspondiente pasaporte no especifique claramente que tal es el propósito del viaje , con la excepción de aquellos que tengan ligas familiares en aquel país. - VIGESIMATERCERA. - Cuando se presente el caso de violación del acuerdo individual del trabajo, por parte del patrón , o de las condiciones bajo las cuales la autorización para la admisión del trabajador fué expedida , o cuando haya habido violación por parte del trabajador, de las condiciones bajo las cuales fué admitido , el Servicio de Colocaciones del Departamento del Trabajo de los Estados Unidos y el Cónsul de México , su auxiliar o representante debidamente acreditado, conocerán del caso y, una vez satisfechos de la existencia de una situación anormal, adoptarán las medidas tendientes a remediarla, pudiendo , si ello se hace necesario, pedir al Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización de los Estados Unidos, que cancele la autorización o resuelva el retiro del trabajador o trabajadores afectados , según sea el caso . - VIGESIMACUARTA. -En vista de la imposibilidad en que se encuentran los representantes del Departamento de Trabajo para fijar un salario mínimo semanal, en virtud de falta de legislación sobre la materia, se establecerán en los contratos bases que fijen para los trabajadores mexicanos empleo por el máximo de tiempo, a salarios máximos. Sin embargo, los datos referentes a salarios y condiciones de pago se harán conocer a los trabajadores en los centros de contratación en la forma prevista en la fracción (a) de la cláusula tercera del presente Acuerdo. - VIGESIMAQUINTA. FONDO DE AHORROS . - Con el propósito de fomentar la creación de los fondos de ahorro, el patrón retendrá periódicamente el diez por ciento del salario del trabajador, entregándole constancia de los descuentos que se le hagan en cada día de raya mediante un recibo firmado, escrito a máquina o con tinta en el que claramente se exprese la suma retenida . Todos los salarios descontados en tal forma deberán ser entregados al trabajador mediante
68706-52- PT. III- -82

3899

3900

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
un cheque bancario certificado , a su nombre, que llevará el sello del Servicio de Inmigración y Naturalización de los Estados Unidos, que será puesto en el momento en que el trabajador cruce la frontera de regreso a México . Dichos cheques serán expedidos en moneda americana (dólares) y negociables después de ser endosados a través de cualquiera institución bancaria en México . - VIGESIMASEXTA. -El Artículo IX de la Convención Consular entre los Estados Unidos y México , formalizada entre los dos Gobiernos el 12 de agosto de 1942 , regirá para todo lo relativo al ejercicio de los derechos que se establecen en este Convenio a favor de los trabajadores . - VIGESIMASEPTIMA.En los casos de conflictos de carácter obrero , el Gobierno Mexicano se reserva el derecho de exigir un cambio de "status" de cualesquiera de los obreros mexicanos bajo contrato que resulten afectados , previo un estudio de las circunstancias , de cada caso. - VIGESIMAOCTAVA.La renovación de los contratos en vigor podrá efectuarse conforme a las estipulaciones relativas de este Convenio , bajo la condición de que los trabajadores conservarán el derecho de ser regresados sin costo alguno para ellos, al lugar de contratación en México . - VIGESIMANOVENA.- Con la mira de cooperar a la realización de los propósitos de este Acuerdo , las autoridades correspondientes de ambos Gobiernos, tomarán todas aquellas medidas tendientes a evitar la emigración ilegal de trabajadores agrícolas mexicanos hacia los Estados Unidos, así como para asegurar la pronta repatriación de los trabajadores que se encuentren ilegalmente en los Estados Unidos. -TRIGESIMA.Ambas Delegaciones recomendarán a sus respectivos Gobiernos que se dé la mayor publicidad a estas medidas y a las razones que las fundamenten, con el objeto de que las autoridades encargadas de su aplicación puedan contar con el mayor apoyo de la opinión pública de ambos países, debiéndose hacer dicha publicación simultáneamente y en la fecha que previamente se convenga por ambas Cancillerías.TRIGESIMAPRIMERA. -Se considerará ilegal la permanencia en el territorio de los Estados Unidos de los trabajadores que no regresen 8a México después del período para el cual se contrataron o recontrataron. - TRIGESIMASEGUNDA. -El trabajador quedará en absoluta libertad para adquirir los artículos destinados a su consumo personal en el lugar que mejor le convenga. - TRIGESIMATERCERA . - El patrón garantizará al trabajador la oportunidad de trabajar las tres cuartas partes de los días laborables del período total durante el cual esté efectivamente en vigor el Contrato Individual de Trabajo . Si el patrón proporciona al trabajador, durante dicho período, menos trabajo del señalado por este artículo , el trabajador tendrá derecho a que se le pague el monto de lo que hubiera ganado si, de hecho , hubiera trabajado el número de días garantizado.- Al hacersele el cómputo de los días laborados para determinar si la garantía de trabajo establecida por este artículo ha sido cumplida , cualquier día en que el trabajador haya declinado el trabajo ofrecido por el patrón será considerado como día laborado en abono de la garantía citada.Por cada día laborable , (exceptuando los domingos ) , en que el trabajador esté dispuesto a prestar sus servicios , se halle físicamente capacitado para desempeñar su trabajo y no se le proporcione éste por una jornada

62 STAT. ] MEXICO- AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-FEB. 20, 21, 1948
mayor de cuatro horas, recibirá subsistencia sin costo alguno para él. Dicha subsistencia consistirá en tres comidas al día o su equivalente en efectivo, a elección del trabajador. - TRIGESIMACUARTA. - Las Autoridades de Inmigración y de Trabajo de los Estados Unidos en ningún caso facilitarán la contratación de trabajadores que lleven consigo a sus familias . - TRIGESIMAQUINTA. -Las autoridades correspondientes del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, en representación de los patrones, se encargarán, de acuerdo con los de México , de la formulación de los instructivos necesarios para facilitar tanto la estancia de los trabajadores en los Estados Unidos , como la mejor interpretación de algunas de las cláusulas de los contratos de trabajo.TRIGESIMASEXTA . - Las recontrataciones de los trabajadores mexicanos residentes actualmente en los Estados Unidos se llevarán a cabo inmediatamente después de ser aprobado por ambos Gobiernos el presente documento ; la primera contratación regular en la República Mexicana se efectuará un mes después de realizado el intercambio de notas ; y, las subsecuentes , en la forma prevista en la cláusula octava del mismo . - El presente Convenio entrará en vigor mediante intercambio de Notas Diplomáticas entre los dos Gobiernos y dejará sin efecto los convenios de 26 de abril de 1943 y de 10 de marzo de 1947 sobre este asunto excepto en el caso de trabajadores actualmente en los Estados Unidos que, si son recontratados, serán protegidos por dichos convenios en lo que respecta a pago de transportes , alojamiento y subsistencia desde el lugar del empleo hasta el de contratación y de este al señalado originalmente en la República Mexicana . Este Convenio conservará su vigencia en tanto no sea modificado por mutuo acuerdo o denunciado mediante notificación escrita de cualquiera de las Altas Partes que lo suscriben , debiendo surtir sus efectos treinta días después de recibida la comunicación relativa. - En representación de los miembros de las Delegaciones Mexicana y Norteamericana , que tomaron parte en las pláticas de El Paso , Texas , a las que al principio del presente documento se hace mención , los funcionarios de ambos Gobiernos que intervinieron en su revisión final lo firman en la ciudad de México a los diecisiete días del mes de febrero de mil novecientos cuarenta y ocho . - POR LA DELEGACION MEXICANA . - Sr. Alfonso Guerra , Oficial Mayor de la Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores . - Rúbrica .- POR LA DELEGACION NORTEAMERICANA. - Sr. Maurice L. Stafford, Primer Secretario de la Embajada de los Estados Unidos . - Rúbrica . - Tengo instrucciones de manifestar que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos está de acuerdo y acepta el arreglo concertado entre los representantes de ambos Gobiernos el 17 de febrero de 1948 , según queda expuesto . Si es aceptable por el Gobierno de México , el de los Estados Unidos de América está dispuesto a considerar la presente Nota y la de contestación aprobatoria de Vuestra Excelencia como constitutivas de un acuerdo entre los dos Gobiernos que iniciará su vigencia en la fecha de contestación de Vuestra Excelencia . - Raymond H. Geist, Chargé d'Affairs ad interim . - Firmado ."
En debida respuesta me es satisfactorio manifestar a Vuestra Señoría la aceptación del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos

3901

3902

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
de los términos del documento preinserto que encuentra ajustados al acuerdo básico suscrito en esta capital, el 17 de febrero de 1948, por las Delegaciones de México y de los Estados Unidos de América; en la inteligencia de que, según lo manifesté al Excmo. Señor Embajador Walter Thurston en mi nota número 34425 del 13 de noviembre de 1947, no se autorizará la contratación de trabajadores mexicanos para Estados de la Unión Norteamericana en donde se hayan registrado actos de discriminación en contra de mexicanos o de personas de origen mexicano .
La Secretaría de Relaciones Exteriores espera que el acuerdo que con esta fecha se formaliza sirva de antecedente- dados los principios de mutua cooperación que norman las relaciones entre los pueblos de nuestros dos países y tomando en cuenta la circunstancia de que los servicios prestados por nuestros trabajadores favorecerán el mayor rendimiento de los campos norteamericanos- para que México pueda seguir adquiriendo en los Estados Unidos, con ayuda y apoyo de las autoridades competentes de ese Gobierno , aquellos productos alimenticios que necesita para complementar su actual producción agrícola .
Me es grato renovar a Vuestra Señoría el testimonio de mi más atenta consideración .

Jaime Torres Bodet.

Señor RAYMOND H. GEIST, Encargado de Negocios ad interim de los Estados Unidos de América. Presente.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS UNITED STATES OF MEXICO MEXICO
No. 3377

MEXICO, D. F. , February 21 , 1948.

MR. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES :

I have the pleasure of referring to your courteous note No. 1776 dated yesterday, which reads word for word as follows :

[For the English language text of this note, see p . 3887 ff .]

In reply I have the pleasure of informing you that the Government of the United Mexican States accepts the terms of the document quoted above, which it finds in conformity with the basic agreement signed in this capital on February 17, 1948 by the delegations of Mexico and the United States of America, with the understanding that, as I stated in my note number 34425 of November 13, 1947 [ '] to His Excellency Ambassador Walter Thurston, authorization will not be given to engage Mexican workers for states in the United States of America where discriminatory acts are known to have been committed against Mexicans or persons of Mexican origin.

1 Not printed .

62 STAT. ] MEXICO- AGRICULTURAL WORKERS-FEB. 20, 21, 1948
In view of the principles of mutual cooperation that govern the relations between the peoples of our two countries and with due regard for the fact that the services rendered by our workers will help to increase agricultural production in the United States , the Department of Foreign Relations hopes that the agreement concluded on this date will serve as an antecedent for Mexico to continue to acquire, with the help and support of the competent authorities of the United States Government , the foodstuffs needed by Mexico to supplement her current agricultural production.
It gives me pleasure to renew to you , Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration.
Jaime Torres Bodet.
Mr. RAYMOND H. GEIST, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America. City.

3903

3904

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT

June 29 and July 6, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 1980]

Agreement between the United States of America and Honduras respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras, extending and modifying the agreement ofJuly 8 , 1942 , as extended and modified. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Tegucigalpa June 29 and July 6, 1948; entered into force July 6, 1948, operative retroactively from June 30, 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Honduran Minister of Foreign Affairs
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 19

TEGUCIGALPA , D. C. , June 29, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

pp6.123S19t,a3t11.,4. Pt . 3 ,

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Government of Honduras and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, dated July 8, 1942 , as later modified and extended, which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative

health and sanitation program in Honduras. I also refer to Your

Excellency's note of April 21 , 1948 , ['] suggesting the consideration by

our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.
Period of extension . As Your Excellency knows, the agreement of July 8, 1942, as

amended, provides that the cooperative health and sanitation program

will terminate on June 30 , 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program , my

Government agrees with the Government of Honduras that an extension of such program would be desirable . I have been advised by the

Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be

made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for a period of one year, from June 30 , 1948 , through June 30,

1949. It would be understood that , during such period of extension, U.CSo.natnrdibHuotnidounrsasb. y the Institute would make a contribution of $ 50,000 United States
Currency to the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Pu-

blica for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the

same purpose the sum of L.500,000 . The Institute would also be

willing during the same extension period to make available funds to

be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account ofthe

Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Division of Health and Sanitation Field Staff, who are

maintained by the Institute in Honduras . The amounts referred to

would be in addition to the sums already required under the present

Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.

1 Not printed.

June 29, 1948 62 STAT. ] HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 6, 1948

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the exten-
sion may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Government, Justice , Health and Welfare and the Institute.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two governments, which shall come into force

on the date of signature [1 ] of an agreement by the Honduran Secretary of State in charge of the Ministry of Government, Justice , Health and Welfare and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

His Excellency Dr. SILVERIO LAINEZ,

HERBERT S. BURSLEY

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Tegucigalpa, D. C.

The Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador
SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES DE LA
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS

No. 69 +
EXCELENCIA :

TEGUCIGALPA, D.C. , 6 de julio de 1948.

Tengo el honor de referirme al atento oficio Nº. 19 de fecha 29 de junio recién pasado , de Vuestra Excelencia, con respecto a la extensión del programa de cooperación sanitaria y salubridad en Honduras.
En relación con el mismo me es grato enviarle copia por duplicado de la Nota Nº. 3728 de la Secretaría de Gobernación , Justicia, Sanidad y Beneficencia, aceptando la propuesta hecha por esa Honorable Embajada .
Con esta oportunidad me es grato renovar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alto aprecio y distinguida consideración,
ALEJANDRO ALFARO ARRIAGA

Alejandro Alfaro Arriaga. Excelentísimo Señor HERBERT S. BURSLEY,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América. Embajada Americana.

¹ June 30, 1948.

3905

3906

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

The Acting Minister of the Interior , Justice , Health, and Welfare to the Minister of Foreign Affairs
SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES DE LA
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS

MINISTERIO DE GOBERNACION , JUSTICIA, SANIDAD Y BENEFICENCIA.

Of. N 3728 SEÑOR MINISTRO:

Tegucigalpa, D.C. , Honduras , C.A. 30 de junio de 1948.

Tengo el honor de acusar recibo a Ud . de la nota que literalmente dice :
"SECRETARIA DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES .-Palacio Nacional:

Tegucigalpa, D.C. , 30 de junio de 1948.-N° 3847. -Señor Ministro:

He recibido la nota que textualmente dice: "EMBAJADA AMERICANA.N° 19.-Tegucigalpa , D.C. , 29 de junio de 1948.-Excelencia : Tengo el honor de referirme al Convenio Básico entre el Gobierno de Honduras

y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , de fecha 8 de julio , 1942, según fue después modificado y extendido , el cual provee para la iniciación y ejecución del programa existente de cooperación sanitaria y salubridad en Honduras . También me refiero a la nota de Su Excelencia de 21 de abril , 1948, sugiriendo la consideración de parte de nuestros respectivos Gobiernos de una futura extensión del programa.-Como Su Excelencia sabe , el convenio de 8 de julio , 1942, según fue enmendado , manda que el programa cooperativo de sanidad y salubridad terminará el 30 de junio , 1948. Sinembargo , considerando los beneficios mutuos que ambos Gobiernos aprovechan del programa, mi Gobierno conviene con el Gobierno de Honduras, en

que sería conveniente una extensión del programa. Tengo aviso del Departamento de Estado en Washington que pueden ahora hacerse arreglos para que el Instituto continúe su cooperación en el programa cooperativo por un período de un año, de junio 30, 1948 a junio 30, 1949. Se entendería que, durante tal período de extensión, el Instituto pondría una contribución de $ 50,000.00 moneda americana al Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Pública, para usarlos en la conducción de las actividades del proyecto del programa,

a condición de que su Gobierno contribuiría al mismo Servicio, para el mismo propósito con la suma de L 500,000.00 . El Instituto también tendría gusto durante el mismo período de ejecución en tener fondos a la disposición para ser retenidos por el Instituto, y no depositados a la cuenta del Servicio , para pago de sueldos y otros gastos de los miembros de la División del Instituto de la oficialidad de campo de

sanidad y salubridad , que son mantenidos por el Instituto en Honduras. Las cantidades referidas serían adicionales a las sumas ya requeridas bajo el presente convenio Básico, para contribuirse y ponerse a la disposición por las partes en la continuación del programa.- Si Su Excelencia conviene en que la extensión propuesta sobre las bases antes dichas es aceptable de parte de su Gobierno, apreciaría el recibo de la expresión de la opinión de Su Excelencia y el convenio del mismo , tan pronto como sea posible, para que puedan plantearse los detalles técnicos de la extensión, por los oficiales del Ministerio de

June 29, 1948 62 STAT. ] HONDURAS- HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 6, 1948

Gobernación, Justicia, Sanidad y Beneficencia, y el Instituto.- El Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América considerará la presente nota y vuestra nota en el mismo tenor, como constituyendo un convenio entre nuestros dos Gobiernos , el cual entrará en vigor en la fecha de la firma de un Convenio, por el Secretario de Estado Encargado del Ministerio de Gobernación , Justicia , Sanidad y Beneficencia, y por el representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, comprendiendo los detalles técnicos arriba mencionados. Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Su Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.- (f) HERBERT S. BURSLEY.-Su Excelencia Doctor Silverio Laínez, Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores, Tegucigalpa, D.C . " .-Al hacer a usted la anterior trascripción le ruego se sirva comunicarme lo que al respecto tenga a bien resolver, para contestar la nota del Excelentísimo Señor Embajador de los Estados Unidos.- Con toda consideración me suscribo del Señor Ministro muy atentamente, (f) SILVERIO LAINEZ.- Señor Ministro de Gobernación , Justicia, Sanidad y Beneficencia, Su Despacho. "

En contestación, me permito manifestarle, con ruego de hacerlo a

su vez a la Embajada Americana, que el Gobierno de Honduras

acepta, en la forma propuesta, la extensión por un año más , del

Porgrama Cooperativo de Salud y Saneamiento , creado por el Convenio Básico entre el Gobierno de Honduras y el Instituto de Asuntos

Interamericanos, de fecha 8 de julio de 1942 , contribuyendo con la

suma de L 500,000.00 que pagará en la forma siguiente:

En ó antes de Septiembre de 1948 . · En ó antes de Febrero de 1949 ·

· L 75,000.00 " 75,000.00

Suma .. ·

L 150,000.00

Además de la suma anterior, que se depositará al Crédito del SCISP en un Banco , el Gobierno conviene en enmendar y extender el

Convenio de Proyecto de Honduras # 55 (S) "Funcionamiento del Sanatorio Nacional para Tuberculosos , Tegucigalpa , Honduras, " firmado el 15 de febrero de 1948 , por otro año adicional , desde el 1º de julio de 1948 hasta el 30 de junio de 1949 y proveer la suma de

L 199,640.00 , que depositará al crédito del SCISP en la forma siguiente :

En ó antes de julio 1 , 1948 . agosto 1 , 1948 · · Sept. 1 , 1948 · oct. 1 , 1948 .

L 16,636.66
" 16,636,67
" 16,636,67 (6
16,636,66

nov. 1 , 1948 . dic. 1 , 1948

" 16,636,67 "' 16,636.67

enero 1 , 1949 feb . 1 , 1949 marzo 1 , 1949 · abril 1 , 1949 . mayo 1 , 1949 · ·

" 16,636.66
"" 16,636.67
"" 16,636.67
"" 16,636.66
"" 16,636.67

junio 1 , 1949 ·

" 16,636.67

SUMA ·

· L 199,640.00

3907

3908

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Y, finalmente , el Gobierno hará también depositar al crédito del SCISP, durante el período de julio 1 , 1948 a diciembre 31 , 1948, una suma no menor de L 150,360.00 y por cuenta de las dependencias del Ministerio de Gobernación y Sanidad , como Distritos, Municipios, etc. Esta cantidad será depositada para el propósito o propósitos expresos de proyectos específicos, creados por convenios de proyecto entre los Distritos , Municipios , etc. y el SCISP .
RESUMEN :

Contribución directa del Gobierno , señalada por el Presu-

puesto General de Gastos vigente .

· L 150,000.00

Para funcionamiento Sanatorio Nacional para Tubercu-

losos

" 199,640.00

Depósitos de las dependencias del Ministerio de Gober-

nación . ·

" 150,360.00

Total de la contribución del Gobierno ·

· · L 500,000.00

Como estimo que aceptada la propuesta, ha de procederse ya a plantearse los detalles técnicos del convenio de extensión por los oficiales competentes del Gobierno y del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , deseo, con tal motivo , Señor Ministro , hacer presente al Gobierno Americano por el digno medio de su Embajador en nuestro país , el reconocimiento más sincero del Gobierno de Honduras, por esta nueva muestra de efectiva cooperación , que contribuirá una vez más a estrechar los vínculos de amistad, que siempre han existido entre nuestros dos Pueblos y Gobiernos.
Con toda consideración soy del Señor Ministro, su muy atento y seguro servidor,
C. COLINDRES ZEPEDA .
Al Señor MINISTRO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES, Su Despacho.

Translation

DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

No. 69

TEGUCIGALPA, D.C. , July 6, 1948.

EXCELLENCY:

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's communication No.

19 , dated June 29 , 1948 , regarding the extension of the cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras.

With respect thereto , I am pleased to send you a copy in duplicate of Note No. 3728 of the Ministry of the Interior, Justice , Health , and

Welfare, accepting the proposal made by your Embassy.

June 29, 1948 62 STAT. HONDURAS-HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 6, 1948

I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest esteem and most distinguished consideration.

ALEJANDRO ALFARO ARRIAGA

His Excellency

Alejandro Alfaro Arriaga.

HERBERT S. BURSLEY,

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the United States of America. American Embassy.

3909

Translation

DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR, JUSTICE, HEALTH, AND WELFARE

No. 3728

Tegucigalpa , D.C. , Honduras, C.A. June 30, 1948.

MR. MINISTER :

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note, which reads as follows:

"DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN RELATIONS . - National Palace : Teguci-

galpa , D.C. , June 30 , 1948. - No. 3847. - Mr. Minister : I have received

the note, the text of which is : ' AMERICAN EMBASSY. - No. 19. - Teguci-

galpa, D.C. , June 29, 1948. - Excellency : I have the honor to refer to

$

the Basic Agreement between the Government of Honduras and the

Institute of Inter-American Affairs , dated July 8, 1942 , as it was later 61 Stat . , Pt . 3 , amended and extended , which provides for initiation and execution of pp. 2319, 3114.

the existing cooperative health and sanitation program in Honduras. I also refer to Your Excellency's note of April 21 , 1948, suggesting con-

sideration on the part of our respective Governments of a future -
extension of the program . - As Your Excellency knows , the Agreement
of July 8, 1942 , as amended, provides that the cooperative health and
sanitation program shall end on June 30, 1948. However, considering
the mutual benefits which both Governments receive from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Honduras that

an extension of the program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its cooperation in the cooper-

ative program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1948 to June 30, 1949. It would be understood that during such extended period , the Institute would make a contribution of $ 50,000.00 U.S. cy. to the

Inter-American Cooperative Public Health Service , to be used in carrying out the activities of the project in the program , on condition that your Government contribute to the same Service, for the same purpose, the sum of 500,000 lempiras. During the same period of execution, the Institute would also like to have at its disposal funds , to

3910

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

be retained by the Institute and not deposited to the account of the Service, for the payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute's Division of health and sanitation field officers who are maintained by the Institute in Honduras. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present p.62133S4.tat ., Pt . 3 , Basic Agreement, to be contributed and made available by the parties in the continuation of the program. - If Your Excellency agrees that the extension as proposed on the aforesaid bases is acceptable to your Government, I should appreciate receiving, as soon as possible, the expression of Your Excellency's opinion and its agreement, in order that the technical details of the extension may be determined by officials of the Ministry of the Interior, Justice, Health, and Welfare and the Institute. - The Government of the United States of America will
consider the present note and your note regarding the same matter as an agreement between our two Governments, which will enter into force on the date that an Agreement containing the above-mentioned technical details is signed by the Secretary of State charged with the Ministry of the Interior, Justice, Health, and Welfare and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs . - I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration . - (Signed) HERBERT S. BURSLEY. - His Excellency, Doctor Silverio Laínez , Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tegucigalpa , D.C. - On transmitting to you the foregoing copy, I respectfully request you to advise me what may be decided in the matter, in order that I may answer the note of His Excellency the Ambassador of the United States . - With all consideration , I am, Mr. Minister, respectfully yours , (signed) SILVERIO LAÍNEZ. - The Minister of the Interior, Justice, Health, and Welfare. His office. "

In answer, permit me to inform you , at the same time requesting that you in turn inform the American Ambassador, that the Government of Honduras accepts, in the form proposed , the extension for one year more, of the Cooperative Health and Sanitation Program , created by the Basic Agreement between the Government of Honduras and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, dated July 8 , 1942 , and

will contribute the sum of 500,000.00 lempiras, to be paid as follows:

In or before September 1948 ·

· 75,000.00 lempiras

In or before February 1949 .

· · 75,000.00

Total . · ·

" 150,000.00

In addition to the foregoing sum, which shall be deposited to the credit of the Inter-American Cooperative Public Health Service in a Bank, the Government agrees to amendment and extension of the Agreement of Project # 55 of Honduras (S) , "Functioning of the National Tuberculosis Sanitorium, Tegucigalpa , Honduras," signed on February 15, 1948 , for an additional year, from July 1 , 1948 to June 30, 1949 , and to provide the sum of 199,640.00 lempiras, which it will deposit to the credit of the Inter-American Cooperative Public Health Service, in the following manner:

1

June 29, 1948 62 STAT. ] HONDURAS -HEALTH AND SANITATION- July 6, 1948

On or before July 1 , 1948 . August 1 , 1948 . September 1 , 1948 October 1 , 1948 · November 1 , 1948 · December 1 , 1948 .
January 1 , 1949 February 1 , 1949 . March 1 , 1949 · · April 1 , 1949 . May 1 , 1949 · · June 1 , 1949 .

· 16,636.66 lempiras

· 16,636.67

""

"" 16,636.67

"" 16,636.66

" 16,636.67

16,636.67
16,636.66 "C
16,636.67 66
16,636.67

16,636.66
66 16,636.67
66 16,636.67

TOTAL ..

· 199,640.00

And finally, the Government will also deposit to the credit of the Inter-American Cooperative Public Health Service, during the period July 1 , 1948 to December 31 , 1948, a sum not less than 150,360.00 lempiras, for the account of the branches of the Ministry of the Interior and Health, such as Districts , Municipalities, etc. This sum shall be deposited for the express purpose or purposes of specific projects , created by project agreements between the Districts, Municipalities, etc., and the Inter-American Cooperative Public Health Service.

SUMMARY :

Direct contribution of the Government, allo-

cated in the current General Budget of Expendi-

tures ·

150,000.00 lempiras

For functioning of the National Tuberculosis

Sanitorium

. 199,640.00

Deposits of branches of the Ministry of the

Interior . ·

66 150,360.00

Total contribution of the Government · 500,000.00

Since I consider that, now the proposal has been accepted , the next

1

step is determination of the technical details of the extension of the

agreement by the competent officials of the Government and the

Institute of Inter-American Affairs, I wish, with such purpose in mind,

Mr. Minister, to express to the American Government, through its

Ambassador in our country, the most sincere recognition on the part of the Government of Honduras for this new demonstration of effective

cooperation, which will again contribute to strengthening the ties of

friendship that have always existed between our two peoples and Governments.

With every consideration, I am, Mr. Minister,

Yours respectfully,

C. COLINDRES ZEPEDA .

To the MINISTER OF FOREIGN RELATIONS, His Office.

3911

3912

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

JaApnruialr9y, 2144,, M1a94r8ch 2, [T. I. A. S. 1981]

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting the transfer of defense installations and equipment, extending and modifying the agreement of March 30 , 1946. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa January 24 and March 2, 1948 ; entered into force March 2 , 1948 , operative retroactively to April 1 , 1947. And supplementary exchange of notes signed at Ottawa April 9 and 14, 1948.

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

No. 20

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA
OTTAWA, January 24th, 1948.

60 Stat. 1741, 1751 . 60 Stat. 1743.

EXCELLENCY , I have the honour to refer to the Exchange of Notes of March 30,
1946 (No. 44 from this Department to you and your Note No. 470) on the subject of war surpluses and related matters. 2. Paragraph 10 of Note No. 44 referred to reads as follows :

"At the request of the Canadian Government , and in order to provide equipment necessary for the training programs of the Canadian armed forces, the United States Government will endeavour to make available surplus military type equipment, up to April 1 , 1947, in such quantities and at such prices as may be negotiated between the two Governments up to a maximum cost of $7,000,000 ( U. S. ) . The Canadian Government will make a payment on account into a suspense account of the United States
Government of $7,000,000 (U. S. ) to apply against such purchases. If the United States Government is unable to provide under this agreement the amount of equipment that the Canadian Government desires to purchase and therefore the payment on account should exceed the amount finally determined to be payable, the excess remaining in the suspense account will be returned to the Canadian Government."

3. In my Note No. 126 of October 10, 1947, [1 ] the request was made that steps be taken to reduce to U. S. $6,000,000 the Canadian deposit of U. S. $7,000,000 paid into a suspense account of the United States Government as a result of these arrangements , and, in your Note No. 783 of December 4, 1947, [1 ] you replied that U. S. $1,000,000 had been returned to the relevant Canadian authorities in accordance with my request.
4. As a recent Order-in-Council of my Government has limited to U. S. $3,800,000 the amount to be spent on purchases of the surplus

' Not printed.

Jan. 24, Mar. 2, 1948 62 STAT. ] CANADA-DEFENSE INSTALLATIONS-- Apr. 9, 14, 1948

3913

military equipment in question, I should appreciate it if the United States Government would now arrange to return to my Government U. S. $2,200,000 of the amount remaining in the above-mentioned suspense account,

5. It would appear that paragraph 10 of this Department's Note No. 44 of March 30, 1946 , at least in so far as it relates to the intention of the United States Government to make available surplus military equipment, ceased to have effect after April 1, 1947. On the other hand, successive Orders- in-Council of my Government have extended beyond that date the period of time within which the Canadian Armed Forces are permitted to complete the purchases envisaged in the Exchange of Notes of March 30, 1946. Under the recent Order-inCouncil mentioned in paragraph 4 above, this period has now been extended to June 30, 1948.
6. The availability of the equipment that the Canadian Armed Forces still wish to purchase has already been determined. Additional time is, however, required to permit completion of negotiations for the purchases contemplated. Consequently, my Government would appreciate it if your Government would agree to the terms of the paragraph quoted in paragraph 2 above continuing in effect until June 30, 1948. 7. If the United States Government is agreeable to this proposal, it is the suggestion of my Government that my present Note, together with your Note replying thereto, constitute an agreement effective from the date of your reply and retroactive to April 1 , 1947.

60 Stat. 1741.

Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .

ESCOTT REID for the

His Excellency,

Secretary of State for External Affairs.

The United States Ambassador to Canada, United States Embassy, Ottawa.

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE

No. 55. EXCELLENCY :

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Ottawa, March 2, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to your Excellency's note No. 20, dated

January 24, 1948, concerning the exchange of notes of March 30, 1946 on the subject of war surpluses and related matters.

60 Stat. 1741.

3914 60 Stat. 1743.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
The proposal contained in your note No. 20 for an extension until June 30, 1948 of the provisions of paragraph 10 of your note No. 44, dated March 30, 1946, in order to provide additional time for the completion of purchases contemplated in paragraph 10 is acceptable to my Government , and this note, together with your note No. 20, are considered as constituting an agreement effective from this date and retroactive to April 1, 1947.
As soon as I receive further instructions from my Government, I shall reply with regard to your request for the return of $2,200,000 of the amount remaining in the suspense account.
Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration .
RAY ATHERTON
His Excellency The Right Honorable The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa, Canada.

The American Ambassador to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY

No. 95 EXCELLENCY :

Ottawa, April 9, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to your note No. 20, dated January 24,

1948 and to my note No. 55 of March 2, 1948 concerning war sur-

Return ofamountin suspense account.

pluses and constituting an agreement to extend the time for completion of purchases thereof.
In your note it was also requested that $2,200,000 of the amount remaining in the suspense account be returned to the Canadian

authorities. My government has now completed its examination of the matter and has agreed to the return of this sum. A check for $2,200,000 will, therefore, be forwarded in the near future to the Treasury officer of the Canadian government in Washington.
I would suggest that, if suitable to you, this note together with your reply, be considered a part of the agreement embodied in the two notes referred to above.

Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration.

RAY ATHERTON

His Excellency The Right Honorable The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

62 STAT. ] CANADA-DEFENSE INSTALLATIONS- Jan. 24, Mar. 2, 1948 Apr. 9, 14, 1948

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

No. 94

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA
OTTAWA, April 14, 1948.

EXCELLENCY, I have the honour to refer to your Note No. 95 of April 9 , 1948, in
which you state that the United States Government will shortly be forwarding to the Canadian Treasury Officer in Washington a cheque for $2,200,000 of the amount deposited by the Canadian Government in a United States Government suspense account for application against purchases of United States war surpluses made by the Canadian authorities.
The Canadian Government is agreeable to your suggestion that this Note together with your Note No. 95 of April 9 , 1948, be considered as forming part of the agreement embodied in my Note No. 20 of January 24, 1948 , and your Note No. 55 of March 2, 1948.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
ESCOTT REID for the

His Excellency

Secretary of State for External Affairs.

The United States Ambassador to Canada, United States Embassy, Ottawa.

3915

3916

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

August 27 and October 5, 1948
T. I. A. S. 1992]

Agreement between the United States ofAmerica and Costa Rica respecting a cooperative food production program in Costa Rica , extending the
agreement of February 20 and 27, 1948. Effected by exchange of notes signed at San José August 27 and October 5, 1948; entered into force October 5, 1948 , operative retroactively from June 30 , 1948.

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Costa Rican Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 175

SAN JOSE, August 27, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Government of Costa Rica and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs,

embodied in the exchange of correspondence between the representative of the Institute and the Secretary of State in the Office of Agriculture of Your Excellency's Government, dated October 14 and 15, 1942 , [ ] respectively, as later modified and extended, [2] which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative program of agriculture in Costa Rica . Also I refer to Your Excellency's note no. 1425-B of August 27, 1948, [ ] suggesting the consideration by our respective governments of a further extension of that Agreement. Period of extension. As Your Excellency knows , the agreement under reference provides that the cooperative program of agriculture will terminate on June 30, 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both

governments are deriving from the program, my government agrees with the Government of Costa Rica that an extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for a period U.CSo.natnrdibCuotsiotnasRicba.y of one year , from June 30 , 1948 through June 30, 1949. It would be understood that, during such period of extension , the Institute would make a contribution of $75,000.00 U. S. currency to the Servicio Technico Interamericano de Cooperacion Agricola for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that Your Excellency's Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of Colones /420,000.00 . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available an amount not exceeding $ 123,395.00 U. S. Currency to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for

1 Not printed. For the text of the agreement extending the program until June 30, 1948, see
62 Stat., Pt. 2, p. 2045.

62 STAT. ] COSTA RICA-FOOD PRODUCTION_Aug. 27, 1948 Oct. 5 , 1948

payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Food Supply Division Field Staff, who are maintained by the Institute in Costa Rica . The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and Industries and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
The Government of the United States of America will consider the
present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two governments , which shall come into force on the date of signature [ ] of an agreement by the Secretary of State in charge of the portfolio of Agriculture and Industries of Costa Rica and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
ANDREW E DONOVAN II

Andrew E. Donovan II

His Excellency Lic. GONZALO FACIO,

Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs, San José.

The Costa Rican Minister of Foreign Relations and Worship to the American Ambassador
REPUBLICA DE COSTA RICA MINISTERIO
DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES Y CULTO

No 1983-B EXCELENCIA :

SAN JOSE, 5 de octubre de 1948

Tengo el honor de referirme a la nota N° 175 de la Embajada Americana, que lleva fecha 27 de agosto del año en curso, que se relaciona con el asunto de la prórroga del programa cooperativo de agricultura que llevan a cabo en conjunto la República y el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos , en conexión con la propuesta contenida en nota 1425-B de este Ministerio para que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos conviniera en pagar la mitad del costo del programa agrícola que la República intenta desarrollar por medio del Servicio Técnico Inter-Americana de Cooperación Agrícola.

1 Aug. 30, 1948.

3917

3918

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Comunicada al Ministerio de Agricultura la nota N° 175 en referencia, ese Despacho manifiesta en oficio 2383 de 29 del mes pasado que está en un todo de acuerdo con la propuesta de su Ilustrado Gobierno y está conforme en contribuir con la suma de $420,000.00 (cuatrocientos veinte mil colones) al desarrollo del programa cooperativo de agricultura que será prorrogado hasta el 30 de junio del año entrante .
De acuerdo con lo anterior, en conformidad con los deseos expresados en la nota que contesto , el próximo trámite de este negocio sería la firma del acuerdo previsto entre el Ministerio de Agricultura y un representante del Instituto Inter-Americanos .
Sirva esta ocasión para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia los sentimientos de mi más elevada y distinguida consideración.
BENJAMIN ODIO
Excelentísimo Señor Don NATHANIEL P. DAVIS Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos Ciudad

Translation

REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
RELATIONS AND WORSHIP

No. 1983-B

SAN JOSÉ, October 5, 1948

EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to refer to note No. 175 of the United States Em-

bassy, dated August 27 of this year, regarding the extension of the agricultural cooperation program which is being carried out jointly by the Republic and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, in connection with the proposal contained in note no . 1425-B of this Ministry that the Government of the United States agree to pay half the cost of the agricultural program which the Republic wishes to carry out by means of the Inter-American Technical Service of Agricultural Co -operation.
After the aforementioned note no . 175 had been transmitted to the

Ministry of Agriculture, the latter stated, in communication no. 2383 dated the 29th of last month, that it was in complete agreement with the proposal of your Government and that it agreed to contribute the sum of $420,000.00 (four hundred twenty thousand colones) for the execution of the agricultural co-operation program which will be extended to June 30 of next year.

In accordance with the foregoing, and in compliance with the wishes expressed in the note to which I am replying the next step in this matter would be the signature [ ] of the contemplated agreement by the Ministry of Agriculture and a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

1 The agreement was signed Aug. 30, 1948 ; see ante, p. 3917.

62 STAT. ] COSTA RICA-FOOD PRODUCTION_Aug. 27, 1948 Oct. 5, 1948
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
BENJAMÍN ODIO His Excellency
NATHANIEL P. DAVIS Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States City.

3919

3920

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

July 1, 14, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 1999]

Agreement between the United States of America and Bolivia respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Bolivia , modifying and extending the agreement of July 15 and 16 , 1942, as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at La Paz July 1 and 14 , 1948; entered into force July 14, 1948 , operative retroactively from June 30, 1948 .

The American Ambassador to the Bolivian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Worship
THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 621 EXCELLENCY:

LA PAZ, BOLIVIA July 1 , 1948

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the government of Bolivia and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs,

arising out of correspondence exchanged between the representative of the Institute and the Minister of Labor, Public Health and Social

155668.Stat. 1864; 58 Stat. Welfare of Bolivia, dated July 15 and July 16 , 1942 , respectively, as later modified and extended , which provided for the initiation and
execution of the existing cooperative health and sanitation program

in Bolivia. I also refer to Your Excellency's note no . P. y D. 60 of January 19, 1948, ['] suggesting the consideration by our respective

governments of a further extension of that Agreement. Period of extension . As Your Excellency knows, the Basic Agreement , as amended,

provides that the cooperative health and sanitation program will terminate on June 30 , 1948. However, considering the mutual bene-

fits which both governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Bolivia that an extension

of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the

Contributions.

Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for a period of one year, from June 30 , 1948 , through June 30 , 1949. It would be understood that, during such period of extension the Institute would make a contribution of $ 100,000 U.S. Cy.

to the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Pública, for

use in carrying out project activities of the program , on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of B/. 28,000,000 . The Institute would also be

willing during the same extension period to make available additional

funds to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio , for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Health and Sanitation Division Field Staff

who are maintained by the Institute in Bolivia. The amounts

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] BOLIVIA-HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM-JULY 1, 14, 1948

referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministerio de Higiene y Salubridad and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
The Government of the United States of America will consider the present Note and Your Excellency's reply Note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature [ '] of an agreement by the Minister of Hygiene and Health of Bolivia and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the abovementioned technical details .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

His Excellency Señor ADOLFO COSTA DU RELS ,

JOSEPH FLACK.

Minister for Foreign Affairs and Worship, La Paz.

3921

The Bolivian Minister for Foreign Affairs and Worship to the American Ambassador

REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES
Y CULTO No. TC. y ONU. 717-
SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

LA PAZ, 14 de julio de 1948 .

Con referencia a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia No. 621 , de 1º del corriente mes, tengo el honor de llevar a su conocimiento que mi Gobierno acepta , conforme a las bases citadas , la prórroga del Programa Cooperativo de Salud Pública hasta el 30 de junio de 1949 , y se halla de acuerdo en que la vigencia de tal prórroga se haga efectiva en la fecha en que , los personeros del Ministerio de Higiene y Salubridad y del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, suscriban un pliego conteniendo los detalles técnicos que se citan en el oficio que contesto .
Aprovecho la oportunidad para renovar al señor Embajador, los sentimientos de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.

A Su Excelencia JOSEPH FLACK,

A. GUTIERREZ P. Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores

Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Presente. -

¹ June 30, 1948.

3922

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Translation
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
AND WORSHIP No. TC. y ONU. 717-

LA PAZ, July 14 , 1948.

MR. AMBASSADOR :
With reference to Your Excellency's note no. 621 of the 1st instant, I have the honor to inform you that my Government accepts , in accordance with the terms mentioned , the extension of the Cooperative Public Health Program until June 30 , 1949 , and that it agrees that the said extension become effective on the date that the representatives of the Ministry of Hygiene and Sanitation and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs affix their signatures to a document containing the technical details mentioned in the official communication to
which I reply. I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you, Mr. Ambassador,
the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
A. GUTIERREZ P. Minister of Foreign Affairs
His Excellency JOSEPH FLACK, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City. -

62 STAT.] GUATEMALA-INTER-AMERICAN HIGHWAY-MAY 18, 1948

3923

Agreement between the United States of America and Guatemala respecting the Inter- American Highway, supplementing the agreement of May 19, 1943. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Guatemala May 18, 1948; entered into force May 18, 1948.

May 18, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 2001]

The American Ambassador to the Guatemalan Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 65 EXCELLENCY :

GUATEMALA, May 18, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the agreement effected by an exchange of notes on May 19, 1943 concerning cooperation between the United States and Guatemala in the improvement of the Inter-American Highway in Guatemala pursuant to Public Law No. 375 of the United States of America, approved December 26, 1941, and subject to the appropriation of the necessary funds by the Congress of the United States of America.

The Congress of the United States of America in an act, approved May 3, 1945, appropriated for the Inter-American Highway $1,000,000 of the $20,000,000 authorized by the act of December 26 , 1941 (Public Law No. 375 ) . This appropriation , however, was made subject to the condition imposed by the following proviso :

57 Stat. 1111. 55 Stat. 860.
Appropriation . 59 Stat. 117.

"Provided, That no part of the appropriation made in this paragraph for use in any cooperating country shall be available for obligation or expenditure unless said cooperating country executes a written agreement that it will impose no restrictions on the use of the highway, nor levy directly or indirectly any tax or charge for such use, by traffic or vehicles from any other country that do not apply with equal force to the like use of the highway by traffic or vehicles of the cooperating country."

In view of the intention of the Federal Works Agency of the United States of America to allot the above-mentioned appropriation of $1,000,000 for expenditure in Guatemala, my Government proposes that, as a supplementary agreement to the agreement effected by an exchange of notes on May 19, 1943, the Government of Guatemala will, in accordance with the proviso of the aforesaid appropriation act of May 3, 1945, agree to the condition that it will not impose any restriction on the use of the Inter-American Highway, nor levy directly or indirectly any tax or charge for such use, by traffic or vehicles from any other country that do not apply with equal force to the like use of the highway by traffic or vehicles of Guatemala.
Except as amended herein, there shall remain in full force and effect the Agreement effected by the exchange of notes of May 19, 1943, and any memorandum of understanding related thereto concluded subsequently between the Director General of Roads on behalf
68706-52- PT. III-- -83

57 Stat. 1111.

3924 Effective date. 57 Stat. 1111.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
of the Republic of Guatemala and the Commissioner of Public Roads on behalf of the Government of the United States of America.
The Government of the United States of America is prepared, if this proposal is acceptable to the Government of Guatemala, to regard the present note and Your Excellency's reply to the same effect as constituting an agreement between the two Governments which shall take effect this day, supplementing the agreement effected by an exchange of notes on May 19, 1943.
I avail myself of this opportunity to extend to Your Excellency the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
EDWIN J. KYLE,
His Excellency Licenciado ENRIQUE MUÑOZ MEANY, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Guatemala.

The Guatemalan Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA SECCION DIPLOMATICA

693 (73-0)

7929

GUATEMALA, 18 de mayo de 1948.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :
Tengo el honor de acusar recibo de la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia, fecha de hoy, relativa a la asignación de $1.000.000 hecha por el Congreso de los Estados Unidos (Acta del 3 de mayo de 1945) para la carretera Interamericana , que se sujeta a la condición impuesta por el siguiente inciso :
"Se dispone que ninguna parte de la asignación hecha en virtud de este párrafo, para emplearse en cualquier país cooperante, quede disponible para obligaciones o gastos, a menos que dicho país cooperante perfeccione un convenio escrito, en que se comprometa a no imponer restricciones para el uso de la carretera , ni a crear ningún impuesto o carga, por tal uso, directa o indirectamente, para el tráfico o vehículos de cualquier otro país, cuando tales impuestos o cargas no se apliquen con igual fuerza, para el mismo uso de la carretera, al tráfico o vehículos del país cooperante."
Manifiesta Vuestra Excelencia que, en vista de la disposición de la Agencia Federal de Obras de los Estados Unidos de América de ad-
judicar la asignación arriba mencionada de $1.000.000 para invertirla en Guatemala, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América propone un convenio suplementario al convenio efectuado por canje de notas el 19 de mayo de 1943, por el cual el Gobierno de Guatemala convenga en la condición contenida en el Acta de Asignación antes mencionada del 3 de mayo de 1943.

62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA-INTER-AMERICAN HIGHWAY-MAY 18, 1948

3925

Vuestra Excelencia manifiesta además que el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América se encuentra listo, en caso de ser aceptada esta propuesta, para considerar la nota a que se acusa recibo y la respuesta de mi Gobierno como constitutivas de un convenio entre los dos
Gobiernos entrando en vigor con esta misma fecha, y complementando el convenio efectuado por canje de notas el 19 de mayo de 1943.
Tengo el honor de informar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de Guatemala acepta la propuesta de su ilustrado Gobierno en el entendido de que, sin perjuicio de lo que se establece por medio del presente acuerdo, quedará en toda su fuerza y vigor el Convenio celebrado por cambio de notas de 19 de mayo de 1943, y cualquier memorándum de entendimiento relativo al mismo Convenio que se haya concluído posteriormente entre el Director General de Caminos en representación del Gobierno de Guatemala y el Comisionado de Caminos Públicos en nombre del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América.

Asimismo, debo manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que mi Gobierno

conviene en la condición de que Guatemala no impondrá ninguna

restricción para el uso de la carretera Interamericana, ni cobrará

ningún impuesto ni gravamen directa ni indirectamente por tal uso,

por tráfico ni por vehículos de ningún otro país que no se apliquen

igualmente por el mismo uso de la carretera, por tráfico o por vehículos

de Guatemala, pero que, como requisito formal esta condición queda

sujeta a aprobación del Congreso de Guatemala. El Gobierno de Guatemala considera este arreglo como suplemento

del arreglo entre los dos Gobiernos efectuado por canje de notas de

fecha 19 de mayo de 1943, y en vigor desde esta misma fecha.

Sírvase aceptar Excelencia la renovada seguridad de mi más alta

y distinguida consideración,

E. MUÑOZ MEANY.

Excelentísimo Señor Doctor EDWIN J. KYLE Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad.-

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA DIPLOMATIC SECTION
693 (73-0)
7929

GUATEMALA, May 18, 1948.

MR. AMBASSADOR :
I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note dated today relative to the appropriation of $1,000,000 by the Congress of the United States (Act of May 3, 1945 ) for the Pan American Highway, which is subject to the condition established in the following proviso :
"Provided, That no part of the appropriation made in this paragraph for use in any cooperating country shall be available for obliga-

59 Stat. 117.

3926
57 Stat. 1111. 59 Stat. 117.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
tion or expenditure unless said cooperating country executes a written agreement that it will impose no restrictions on the use of the highway, nor levy directly or indirectly any tax or charge for such use, by traffic or vehicles from any other country that do not apply with equal force to the like use of the highway by traffic or vehicles of the cooperating country."
Your Excellency states that, in view of the intention of the Federal Works Agency of the United States of America to allot the abovementioned appropriation of $1,000,000 for expenditure in Guatemala, the Government of the United States of America proposes a supplementary agreement to the agreement effected by an exchange of notes on May 19, 1943, by which the Government of Guatemala agrees to the proviso of the aforesaid appropriation act of May 3, 1943. [ 1]
Your Excellency further states that the Government of the United States of America is prepared, if this proposal is accepted, to regard the note the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged and the reply of my Government as constituting an agreement between the two Governments which shall take effect this day, supplementing the agreement effected by an exchange of notes on May 19, 1943.
I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Guatemala accepts the proposal of your illustrious Government with the understanding that, without prejudice to the provisions established by means of the present agreement, the agreement effected by an exchange of notes on May 19, 1943, and any memorandum of an understanding relative to the same agreement which may have been reached subsequently between the Director General of Highways representing the Government of Guatemala and the Commissioner of Public Roads in the name of the Government of the United States of America will continue in full effect.
Furthermore, I am to state to Your Excellency that my Government agrees to the condition that Guatemala will impose no restrictions on the use of the Pan American Highway, nor levy directly or indirectly any tax or charge for such use, by traffic or vehicles from any other country that do not apply with equal force to the like use of the highway by traffic or vehicles of Guatemala, but that, as a formal requirement, this proviso is subject to the approval of the Congress of Guatemala .
The Government of Guatemala considers this arrangement as supplementary to the arrangement effected between the two Governments by an exchange of notes dated May 19 , 1943, and as entering in effect this day.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
E. MUÑOZ MEANY. His Excellency EDWIN J. KYLE
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City. -
1 This should read ". · · act of May 3, 1945".

62 STAT. ] ECUADOR- HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM-- AUG. 6, 18, 1948 3927

Agreement between the United States of America and Ecuador respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Ecuador, modifying and extending the agreement of February 24 , 1942 , as modified and extended . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Quito August 6 and 18, 1948; entered into force August 20 , 1948 , operative retroactively from June 30, 1948.

August 6, 18, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 2003]

The American Ambassador to the Ecuadoran Minister of Foreign Affairs

No. 227 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Quito, August 6, 1948

I have the honor to refer to the notes exchanged between His Excellency the Minister Counselor of the Ecuadoran Embassy to the United States of America and His Excellency the Under Secretary of State of the United States of America on February 24 , 1942 , and

the Basic Agreement, as amended , between the Republic of Ecuador and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, entered into in January

1943 , [ ' ] providing for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative health and sanitation program in Ecuador. I also refer to

Your Excellency's note no. 123-DDP, of August 5, 1948 , [ ' ] suggesting
the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.

As Your Excellency knows , the above referred to Basic Agreement provides that the cooperative health and sanitation program will terminate on June 30, 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Republic of Ecuador that an extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for

a period of one year, from June 30 , 1948 , through June 30 , 1949 . It would be understood that, during such period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $ 100,000.00 U.S. cy. to the

Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Publica for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose

the sum of 4,020,000.00 sucres. The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Health and Sanitation Division Field Staff, who are

maintained by the Institute in Ecuador. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present

57 Stat. 1370. Period of extension. Contributions.

1 Not printed.

3928

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Entry into force.

Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the
extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Social Welfare and Labor and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature[ ] of an agreement by the Minister of Social Welfare and Labor of Ecuador and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above mentioned technical details.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
JOHN F. SIMMONS
His Excellency Doctor ANTONIO PARRA VELASCO, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Quito.

The Ecuadoran Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

REPÚBLICA DEL ECUADOR MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

N° 133-DDP.

DEPARTAMENTO DIPLOMATICO

QUITO, a 18 de Agosto de 1948.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo el honor de llevar a conocimiento de Vuestra Excelencia, que el señor Ministro de Previsión Social, en nota número 182-AJ. , de 17 de agosto de 1948 , me manifiesta estar listo a suscribir con el Instituto

de Asuntos Interamericanos (The Institute of Inter-american Affairs)

el Convenio cuyo texto se acompaña , a efecto de que continúen los Servicios Cooperativos de Salud Pública y Saneamiento que realiza en el Ecuador el mencionado Instituto .
Valgome de la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.

A P VELASCO

ANEXO. [2]

Antonio Parra Velasco Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores

Al Excelentísimo Señor Don JOHN F. SIMMONS, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de Norte América. Presente .

1 Aug. 20, 1948. 2 Not printed .

62 STAT. ] ECUADOR- HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM-AUG. 6, 18, 1948 3929

Translation

REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS
DIPLOMATIC DEPARTMENT

No. 133-DDP. QUITO, August 18, 1948.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Minister of Social Welfare, in note number 182-AJ. , of August 17 , 1948 , [' ] informs me that he is prepared to sign , jointly with the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, the Agreement the text of which is transmitted herewith, to the end that the Cooperative Public Health and Sanitation Services which the aforesaid Institute is carrying out in Ecuador may be continued .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

A P VELASCO

Antonio Parra Velasco

Enclosure [1]

Minister of Foreign Relations

His Excellency JOHN F. SIMMONS, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.
1 Not printed.

3930

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

October 27 , 28, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 2021]

Arrangement between the United States of America and Liberia respecting passport visas . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Monrovia October 27 and 28 , 1947; entered into force October 28 , 1947 , operative December 1 , 1947 .

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Liberian Acting Secretary of State

LEGATION OF THE

No. 271

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Monrovia, Liberia, October 27, 1947

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to set forth below the terms of the arrangement

regarding the period of validity of temporary visitors visas to be granted on a reciprocal basis to nationals of our two countries as
understood by me to have been approved in the course of conversations recently conducted by the Legation with your Department of State :

1. As of the date on which this arrangement becomes effective, non-immigrant temporary visitors visas shall be granted by each of our respective countries to nationals of the other to be valid for an initial period of two years from the date of issue instead of an initial period of one year as at present.
2. It is understood that the period of validity of two years means that the visas granted will be valid for presentation at a port of entry at any time, or any number of times, during the two-year period. However, the immigration officials at the port of entry of either country may, as heretofore, specify the authorized length of stay of the alien for each visit.
3. It is further understood that no visa granted for a period of two years will be valid for such period unless the passport or other acceptable travel document is valid for such period. However, if the passport or travel document is not valid for the full period of two years at the time the visa is granted, the passport or travel document may be extended by the issuing authority for the full period of two years or more in which event the visa shall be considered as valid for the full period of two years.
4. The present agreement will in no way affect the arrangement ['] existing between our two Governments whereby all non-immigrant passport visa fees are waived on a reciprocal basis.
If the above provisions are acceptable to Your Excellency's Government, this note and the reply signifying assent thereto shall, if agreeable to Your Excellency's Government, be regarded as consti-

' Signed Aug. 31, 1925 ; not printed.

62 STAT. ] LIBERIA- PASSPORT VISAS-OCT. 27, 28, 1947

3931

tuting an arrangement between our two Governments which shall become effective on December 1, 1947.
Please accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
RUPERT A. LLOYD, JR. Rupert A. Lloyd, Jr. American Charge d'Affaires a. i.
His Excellency CHAS. T. O. KING Acting Secretary of State, R. L. Monrovia

Effective date.

The Liberian Acting Secretary of State to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

2135/DF MR. CHARGE D'AFFAIRES :

MONROVIA, LIBERIA. 28th October, 1947.

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your Note Number 271 , dated October 27, 1947 regarding terms of arrangement between our respective Governments with respect to the period of validity of temporary visitors visas which is to be granted on a reciprocal basis to nationals of our two countries in the light of conversations had by your Legation with the Department of State.

In reply, I have the honour to advise the acceptance and assent by my Government to the following provisions as constituting an arrangement between our two Governments effective as of December 1, 1947 :

1. As of the date on which this arrangement becomes effective, non-immigrant temporary visitors visas shall be granted by each of our respective countries to nationals of the other to be valid for
an initial period of two years from the date of issue instead of an initial period of one year as at present.
2. It is understood that the period of validity of two years means that the visas granted will be valid for presentation at a port of entry at any time, or any number of times , during the two-year period. However, the immigration officials at the of entry of either country may, as heretofore, specify the authorized length of stay of the alien for each visit.
3. It is further understood that no visa granted for a period of two years will be valid for such period unless the passport or travel document is valid for such period. However, if the passport or travel document is not valid for the full period of two years at the time the visa is granted, the passport or travel document may be extended by the issuing authority for the full period of two years or more in which event the visa shall be considered as valid for the full period of two years.
68706-52- PT. III- -84

3932

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

4. The present agreement will in no way effect the arrangement existing between our two governments whereby all non-immigrant passport visa fees are waived on a reciprocal basis.

Please accept, Mr. Charge d'Affaires, the renewed assurance of my

high consideration and esteem.

CHAS. T. O. KING

Charles T. O. King,

RUPERT A. LLOYD, Jr., Esqr.,

Acting Secretary of State.

American Charge d'Affaires, a. i., American Legation, Monrovia,

62 STAT. ]

PANAMA- COLÓN CORRIDOR-MAY 26, 1947

3933

Agreement between the United States of America and Panama respecting the Colón Corridor. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Panamá May 26, 1947; entered into force May 26, 1947.

May 26, 1947 [T. I. A. 8. 2029]

The American Ambassador to the Panamanian Minister of Foreign Relations

No. 417 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Panamá, R. P., May 26, 1947

I have the honor to refer to Article VIII of the General Treaty of March 2 , 1936, between the United States of America and Panamá, and to recall to Your Excellency's attention the fact that when the Trans-Isthmian Highway was built between the boundary of the Canal Zone and the Republic of Panamá near Cativa and Randolph

53 Stat. 1818.

Road a change of alignment of the Trans-Isthmian Highway was made for engineering purposes with the result that at the present time the location of the Trans-Isthmian Highway differs from that of the corridor established by said Article VIII in that area.

In order that the Government of Panamá may proceed with the completion of the Colón Corridor from Randolph Road to the City of Colón, and benefit by the availability of the equipment which is now being used on the project of filling certain swamp areas in the City of Colón, the Government of the United States of America proposes that, by way of modus vivendi pending the coming into force

of appropriate provisions effecting necessary modifications in existing treaties or conventions between the two countries, it be mutually agreed by and between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Panamá as follows :
Alteration of Colón (a) That between the boundary near Cativa and the Randolph Corridor location. Road overpass the Colón Corridor location will be altered to conform
to that shown on Exhibit C [ ] of the Public Roads Administration (August 6, 1946, P. C. Drwg. No. V. F. 933-7C) .
Randolph Road (b) That the Randolph Road overpass will be constructed in sub- overpass. stantial conformity with the plans for such construction set forth in Exhibit F of the Public Roads Administration (August 6 , 1946 , P. C. Drwg. No. V. F. 933-7F) .

(c) That at the Randolph Road overpass the corridor will be no wider than is necessary to include the viaduct and ramps and will

1 The exhibits referred to in this exchange of notes are not printed. Copies of these exhibits as received from the American Embassy with a certified copy of this note are deposited with the Agreement in the archives of the Department of State where they are available for reference.

3934

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

not include any part of Randolph Road proper or of the railroad right-of- way .

(d) That between the Randolph-Road overpass and the boundary line between the City of Colón and the Canal Zone the corridor location will be altered to conform to that shown on Exhibit B of the

Public Roads Administration (August 6 , 1946 , P. C. Drwg. No. V. F. 933-7B) . As so shown the corridor will end at its intersection with

the City of Colón-Canal Zone boundary at mean low water line near Boundary Street .

(e) That between the Randolph Road overpass and the boundary line between the City of Colón and the Canal Zone the corridor road,

including the storm and sanitary sewerage facilities made necessary by such road, will be constructed, by or at the expense of the Government of Panamá, in substantial conformity with the plans for such construction set forth in Exhibit E of the Public Roads Administra-

tion (August 6, 1946 , P. C. Drwg. No. V. F. 933-7E) , as supplemented

and modified by Exhibit B of The Panama Canal.

Maintenance of

drainage facilities.

(f) That the Government of Panamá will at all times maintain in

U. S. right of travel. 53 Stat. 1818.

good structural condition the drainage facilities through the fills constructed for the corridor road.
(g) That the right of the United States of America, under Article VIII of the General Treaty of 1936 , of travel along the corridor, subject

to such traffic regulations as may be established by the Government of

Panamá, will extend and apply to the Colón entrance to the corridor,

which, in view of the boundary change referred to in paragraph (i)

Amendment of Art. VIII of the General Treaty.
53 Stat. 1818.

hereof, will not form a part of the corridor. (h) That the two Governments will, as soon as possible, formally
enter into a suitable convention amending Article VIII of the General Treaty in such manner as to alter the description of the corridor in the

manner hereinbefore provided , and to include in substance the provi-

Amendment of Art. V of the Boundary Convention.
38 Stat. 1900.

sions of paragraphs (f) and (g ) hereof. (i) That the two Governments will, as soon as possible, formally
enter into a suitable convention , amending Article V of the Boundary Convention concluded on September 2 , 1914, in such manner as to

revise that portion of the City of Colón-Canal Zone boundary line

which extends from the end of the corridor, as herein provided for, to Sixteenth Street , in conformity with the boundary revisions proposed by the Public Roads Administration and shown on its Exhibit A (August 6 , 1946 , P. C. Drwg. No. V. F. 933-7A) . The convention will accord to the United States the right to construct highways connecting

Bolivar Highway and the highway forming the Colón entrance to the corridor , such as the connecting highways outlined on Exhibit A ofthe Public Roads Administration . This paragraph and paragraphs (j)

and (k) hereof shall be operative only in the event that the Colón entrance to the corridor is constructed in substantial conformity with

Exhibits A and E of the Public Roads Administration (August 6, 1946, P. C. Drwg. No. V. F. 933-7A and E).

(j ) That the two Governments will, in the proposed convention referred to in paragraph (i) hereof, further amend Article V of the

62 STAT. ]

PANAMA-COLÓN CORRIDOR- MAY 26, 1947

3935

Boundary Convention of 1914, in such manner as to revise that portion of the City of Colón-Canal Zone boundary line which extends from Sixteenth Street in a northwesterly direction to the center line of Bolivar Avenue, in conformity with the boundary revision proposed by

38 Stat. 1900.

The Panama Canal and marked on a copy of Panama Canal Drawing No. X-6113-53 dated July 6, 1945 , which copy is marked Panama Canal Exhibit A.

(k) That the two Governments will, in the proposed convention referred to in paragraphs (i) and (j ) hereof, provide in substance, first, that the tracts of land transferred from the City of Colón to the Canal Zone, in consequence of the boundary changes provided for in sai.d paragraphs (i ) and (j ) , shall become parts of the Canal Zone in the

same manner as though they had been included within the grants contained in the Convention of November 18 , 1903, between the two Governments, and that the Government of Panamá undertakes

33 Stat. 2234.

that no private titles exist in and to such tracts of land ; and, second , in respect to the tracts of land transferred from the Canal Zone to the

City of Colón in consequence of the boundary changes agreed upon, the Government of the United States of America undertakes that no

private titles exist in and to such tracts of land. Madden Dam By-
(1) That the portion of the Boyd-Roosevelt Highway known as the pass Road.

Madden Dam Bypass Road is understood and agreed to form a part

of the Trans-Isthmian Highway under the terms of the TransIsthmian Highway Convention of March 2, 1936, and that such agreement will be included in the proposed convention referred to in

53 Stat. 1869.

paragraph (m) hereof. (m) Referring to the several areas in the Rio Madronal- Roque
section of the Trans-Isthmian (Boyd-Roosevelt) Highway wherein the

Rio MadronalRoque section.

highway passes through Canal Zone territory, including the section of

the highway between the Quebrada Madronal and the Quebrada Moja Polla, the section of the highway crossing the Agua Bendita and Chilibre Rivers, and the Roque overpass whereby such highway crosses the Madden Dam Corridor ; and referring to the area wherein

such highway passes through Canal Zone territory in crossing the Gatun River : - That the two Governments will, as soon as possible,

formally enter into a suitable convention whereby the United States

of America will transfer to the Republic of Panamá jurisdiction over suitable corridors , subject to terms similar to those contained in Article VIII of the General Treaty of 1936 , as herein agreed to be amended, in order that the aforementioned sections of the TransIsthmian Highway shall be within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Panamá. In the case of the Roque overpass the corridor will be no

53 Stat. 1818.

wider than is necessary to include the viaduct and approaches, and will not include any part of Madden Road proper. In all cases wherein the aforesaid corridors traverse waterways, the corridors will not include any part of such waterways.

(n) That the right of the United States of America, under Article VII of the Trans-Isthmian Highway Convention of 1936 , to enjoy equally the use of the portions of the Trans-Isthmian Highway within the jurisdiction of the Republic of Panamá, subject to the laws

53 Stat. 1872.

3936

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

and regulations relating to vehicular traffic in force in the Republic of Panamá, shall extend and apply to the portion of the Boyd-Roosevelt

Highway between the Roque overpass and the City of Panamá.

Rights, etc., under

prior treaties.

(0) That the provisions of this agreement shall not affect the rights

and obligations of the two Governments under treaties and conven-

53 Stat. 1818, 1870.

tions now in force between them, and particularly under Article VIII of the General Treaty of 1936 and Article II of the Trans-Isthmian Highway Convention of 1936 , but without prejudice to the full force and effect of the provisions of this agreement which contemplate the conclusion of a convention for the purpose of adding to, or of modify

ing, abrogating, or replacing, provisions of such treaties and con-

ventions.

Modifications or deviations.

(p) That the terms of this agreement will be modified or deviated

from only by agreement between the two Governments concluded by

Effective date.

exchange of notes in the same manner as this agreement. Upon the receipt of your reply note indicating that the Government

of Panamá approves the agreement in accordance with the terms

outlined above, the Government of the United States of America will

consider the agreement to be effective beginning with the date of that note.

Accept , Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
FRANK T. HINES His Excellency
Dr. RICARDO J. ALFARO,

Minister of Foreign Relations.

The Panamanian Minister of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

D.P. No. 1227

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

PANAMÁ, 26 de Mayo de 1947.

Tengo a honra avisar recibo de la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia No. 417 , de esta fecha, que dice lo siguiente:

"Tengo el honor de referirme al artículo VIII del Tratado General de 2 de Marzo de 1936 , celebrado entre los Estados Unidos de América y Panamá, y de llevar de nuevo a la atención de Vuestra Excelencia el hecho de que cuando se construyó la Carretera Transístmica entre el límite de la Zona del Canal y la República de Panamá cerca de Cativá y el Camino del Fuerte Randolph, se hizo, por razones de ingeniería, un cambio en el trazado de la Carretera Transístmica, con el resultado de que en la actualidad la ubicación de la Carretera Transístmica defiere de la del corredor establecido por el mecionado Artículo VIII en esa área.
A fin de que el Gobierno de Panamá pueda proceder terminar el Corredor de Colón desde el Camino del Fuerte Randolph hasta

62 STAT. ]

PANAMA- COLÓN CORRIDOR-MAY 26, 1947

la Ciudad de Colón, y beneficiarse con el uso del equipo que ahora se está usando en los trabajos del relleno de ciertas áreas pantanosas en la Ciudad de Colón , el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos propone que, por vía de modus vivendi, hasta tanto éntren en vigencia estipulaciones apropiadas que efectúen las modificaciones necesarias en los tratados o convenciones existentes entre los dos países, se conviene mutuamente entre el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos y el Gobierno de la República de Panamá lo siguiente:
a) Que entre el límite cerca de Cativá y el paso elevado sobre el Camino de Randolph la ubicación sea alterada de manera que se conforme con la que aparece en el Anexo C de la entidad denominada Public Roads Administration, o sea Administración de Caminos
Públicos (Agosto 6 de 1946 , Diseño del Canal de Panamá N° V. F. 933-7C ) .
b) Que el paso elevado del Camino de Randolph será construído en sustancial conformidad con los planos adoptados para dicha construcción en el Anexo F de la entidad denominada Public Roads
Administration (Agosto 6 de 1946 , Diseño del Canal de Panamá No V. F. 933-7 F).
c) Que en el paso elevado del Camino de Randolph el corredor no tendrá más anchura que la necesaria para incluír el viaducto y las rampas y no incluirá parte alguna del Camino de Randolph propiamente dicho o de la servidumbre de tránsito del ferrocarril .
d) Que entre el paso elevado del Camino de Randolph y la línea limítrofe de la Ciudad de Colón y la Zona del Canal la ubicación del Corredor será alterada de manera que se conforme a la que aparece en el Anexo B de la entidad denominada Public Roads
Administration (Agosto 6 de 1946 , Diseño del Canal de Panamá No. V. F. 933-7B) . Tal como aparece allí, el corredor terminará su intersección con la línea limítrofe entre la Ciudad de Colón y la
Zona del Canal, en la línea de la bajamar cerca de la Calle Limítrofe. e) Que entre el paso elevado del Camino de Randolph y la
línea limítrofe entre la Ciudad de Colón y la Zona del Canal, el camino del corredor, inclusive las obras de desagüe y sanitarias que dicho camino requiera, serán construídas por el Gobierno de Panamá, o a su costa, en sustancial conformidad con los planos trazados para dicha construcción en el Anexo E. de la entidad denominada Public Roads Administration (Agosto 6 de 1946, Diseño del Canal de Panamá V. F. 933-7E) , tal como ha sido adicionado y modificado por el Anexo B del Canal de Panamá.
f) Que el Gobierno de Panamá mantendrá en todo tiempo en buena condición estructural los desagües de los rellenos construídos para el camino del Corredor.
g) Que el derecho de los Estados Unidos de América, de conformidad con el Artículo VIII del Tratado General de 1936, de hacer uso del Corredor, con sujeción a los reglamentos de tránsito que sean establecidos por el Gobierno de Panamá, se extenderá y aplicará a la entrada del Corredor en Colón, la cual en vista del

3937

3938

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
cambio de límite de que trata el parágrafo (i) de esta nota, no formará parte del Corredor.
h) Que los dos Gobiernos celebrarán, tan pronto como sea posible, una covención apropiada por la cual se reforme el Artículo VIII del Tratado General en el sentido de cambiar la descripción del corredor de la manera anteriormente expuesta y que incluya en sustancia las estipulaciones de los parágrafos (f) y (g) de esta nota.
i) Que los dos Gobiernos celebrarán, tan pronto como sea posible, una convención apropiada que modifique el Artículo V de la Convención de Límites celebrada el 2 de septiembre de 1914, en forma que revise la porción de la línea limítrofe entre la Ciudad de Colón y la Zona del Canal que se extiende desde el final del corredor, según aquí se estipula, hasta la Calle Diez y Seis, de conformidad con las modificaciones propuestas en materia de límites por la
entidad denominada Public Roads Administration, según aparece
en el Anexo A (Agosto 6 de 1946 , Diseño del Canal de Panamá No. V. F. 933-7A) . La convención otorgará a los Estados Unidos el derecho de construir carreteras que unan la Carretera Bolívar y la carretera que forma la entrada de Colón al corredor, tal como la que une las carreteras delineadas en el Anexo A de la citada Public Roads Administration . Este parágrafo y los parágrafos (j ) y (k)
de esta nota sólo tendrán aplicación en el caso de que la entrada de Colón al corredor sea construída en sustancial conformidad con los Anexos A y E de la dicha Public Roads Administration (Agosto 6 de 1946 , Diseño del Canal de Panamá No. V. F. 933-7A y E) .
j) Que los dos Gobiernos modificarán también, en la proyectada convención de que trata el parágrafo precedente , el Artículo V de la Convención de Límites de 1914, en forma que revise la porción de la línea limítrofe entre la Ciudad de Colón y la Zona del Canal que se extiende desde la Calle Diez y Seis en dirección noroeste hasta la línea central de la Avenida Bolívar , de conformidad con la modificación propuesta en materia de límites por el Canal de Panamá y señalada en una copia del Diseño del Canal de Panamá N° X-6113-53 fechado el 6 de julio de 1945, copia denominada
Anexo A del Canal de Panamá .
k) Que en la proyectada convención a que se refieren los anteriores parágrafos (i) y (j ) , los dos Gobiernos estipularán en sustancia : primero, que los globos de terreno que se transfieren de la Ciudad de Colón a la Zona del Canal como consecuencia de los cambios limítrofes estipulados en dichos parágrafos (i) y (j ) pasarán a ser parte de la Zona del Canal de la misma manera que si hubieran sido incluídos en las concesiones contenidas en la Convención de 18 de Noviembre de 1903 entre los dos Gobiernos , y que el Gobierno de Panamá se compromete a que no existan títulos de propiedad privada sobre dichos globos de terreno ; y, segundo , con respecto a los globos de terreno que se trasfieren de la Zona del Canal a la
Ciudad de Colón como consecuencia de los cambios limítrofes convenidos, el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América se compromete a que no existan títulos de propiedad privada sobre dichos globos de terreno .

62 STAT. ]

PANAMA- COLÓN CORRIDOR-MAY 26, 1947

1) Que es entendido y convenido que el tramo de la Carretera Boyd-Roosevelt conocido como Camino de la Represa de Madden forma parte de la Carretera Transístmica , de conformidad con los términos de la Convención sobre la Carretera Transístmica, de 2 de Marzo de 1936 , y que tal acuerdo será incluído en la convención que se tiene en proyecto celebrar conforme al parágrafo (m ) que sigue .
m) Con referencia a las diversas áreas del tramo Río MadroñalRoque de la Carretera Transístmica, en que la carretera atraviesa territorio de la Zona del Canal, inclusive el tramo de la carretera entre la Quebrada Madroñal y la Quebrada Moja Pollo , y el tramo de la carretera que cruza los ríos Agua Bendita y Chilibre, y el paso elevado de Roque por donde la carretera cruza el Corredor de la Represa Madden ; y con referencia al área en que dicha carretera atraviesa territorio de la Zona del Canal al cruzar el Río Gatún, los dos Gobiernos celebrarán tan pronto como sea posible una convención apropiada mediante la cual los Estados Unidos de América traspasarán a la República de Panamá la jurisdicción sobre corredores apropiados , con sujeción a términos similares a los contenidos en el Artículo VIII del Tratado General de 1936 , según se ha convenido reformarlo por medio de esta nota, a fin de que los antedichos tramos de la Carretera Transístmica queden dentro de la jurisdicción de la República de Panamá. En el caso del paso elevado de Roque el corredor no tendrá más anchura que la necesaria para incluir el viaducto y sus entradas, y no comprenderá parte alguna del Camino de la Represa Madden propiamente dicho . En los casos en que los corredores antes mencionados atraviesen vías acuáticas, los corredores no incluirán parte alguna de tales vías.
n) Que el derecho de los Estados Unidos de América, de conformidad con el Artículo VII de la Convención de la Carretera
Transístmica de 1936 , de disfrutar en pie de igualdad el uso de la parte de la Carretera Transístmica situada dentro de la jurisdicción de la República de Panamá, con sujeción a las leyes y reglamentos relativos al tránsito de vehículos vigentes en la República de Panamá, se extenderá y aplicará a la porción de la Carretera Transístmica comprendida entre el paso elevado de Roque y la Ciudad de Panamá.
o) Que las estipulaciones de este acuerdo no afectarán los derechos y obligaciones de los dos Gobiernos según los tratados y convenciones vigentes entre ellos , y particularmente según el Artículo VIII del Tratado General de 1936 y el Artículo II de la Convención de la Carretera Transístmica de 1936 , sin perjuicio del pleno vigor y efecto de las estipulaciones de este acuerdo que tienen en mira la celebración de una convención con el objeto de adicionar, modificar, abrogar o subrogar estipulaciones de dichos tratados y convenciones.
p) Que los términos de este acuerdo sólo podrán ser modificados o alterados mediante acuerdo entre los dos Gobiernos, celebrado por canje de notas de la misma manera que este acuerdo ."

3939

3940

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
En contestación, tengo el honor de confirmar la inteligencia a que se ha llegado sobre los puntos anteriores según queda expuesta en la nota de Vuestra Excelencia a que me he referido .
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
R. J. ALFARO Ricardo J. Alfaro, Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores.
Su Excelencia FRANK T. HINES , Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad.-

Translation MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

D.P. No. 1227

MR. AMBASSADOR:

PANAMÁ, May 26, 1947.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of Your Excellency's courteous note No. 417 , of even date, which states as follows:

[For the English language text of note No. 417 , as signed , see ante, p . 3933.]
In reply, I have the honor to confirm the understanding which has been reached concerning the preceding points as expressed in Your Excellency's note to which I have referred .
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
R. J. ALFARO

Ricardo J. Alfaro, Minister of Foreign Relations.

His Excellency FRANK T. HINES , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, City.-

62 STAT. ]

Oct. 1, 1947 ICELAND-PASSPORT VISAS- Dec. 9, 1947

3941

Agreement between the United States of America and Iceland respecting passport visas. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Reykjavik October 1 and December 9, 1947; entered into force December 9, 1947, operative January 1, 1948.

October 1 and December 9, 1947
[T. I. A. 8. 2031]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN LEGATION,

No. 822

REYKJAVIK, ICELAND October 1, 1947.

EXCELLENCY :

Pursuant to instructions from my Government, I have the honor to propose that the Government of Iceland and the Government of the

United States enter into an agreement according to which each Government will, unless special circumstances exist, hereafter reciprocally issue visas to temporary visitors valid for a period of twentyfour months. It is suggested that this procedure enter into effect on December 1 , 1947. This change, it should be noted , would not disturb the arrangement [ 1 ] between the two Governments whereby all non-

immigrant passport visa fees are waived on a reciprocal basis. Should the Government of Iceland accept the foregoing proposal,
the affirmative reply of Your Excellency shall constitute, together with this note, the agreement of the two Governments in this matter.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
WILLIAM C. TRIMBLE

His Excellency BJARNI BENEDIKTSSON ,

Charge d'Affaires ad interim

Minister for Foreign Affairs Reykjavik.

The Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

UTANRÍKISRÁÐUNEYTIÐ [2] REYKJAVIK

No. 189

December 9th, 1947.

MONSIEUR LE CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES,

I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your note of October 1st 1947 in which you propose that the Government of Iceland and

¹Dated Nov. 3 and Dec. 21, 1925, and June 11, 19, and 21 , 1926 ; not printed. 2 Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

3942

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
the Government of the United States enter into an agreement according to which each Government will, unless special circumstances exist, hereafter reciprocally issue visas to temporary visitors valid for a period of twenty- four months.
I have the honour to inform you that the Government of Iceland accepts the foregoing proposal and that your note and the present reply shall constitute the agreement of the two Governments in this matter. At the same time it is suggested that this procedure enter into effect on January 1st 1948.
It is understood that the present agreement will not disturb the arrangement between the two Governments whereby all non-immigrant passport visa fees are waived on a reciprocal basis.
Accept, Monsieur le Chargé d'Affaires, the renewed assurances of my high consideration.
BJARNI BENEDIKTSSON MR. WILLIAM C. TRIMBLE
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America, Reykjavik.

62 STAT. ]

CANADA-AVIATION- FEB. 13, 1945

3943

Agreement between the United States of America and Canada respecting flights of military aircraft. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Ottawa February 13, 1945; entered into force February 13, 1945 .

February 13, 1945 (T. I. A. S. 2056]

1 The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs

No. 285

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Ottawa, Canada, February 13, 1945.

SIR :

With reference to negotiations that have recently taken place between representatives of the United States and Canadian Governments respecting air services of the Armed Forces of the United States and Canada, I have the honor to propose that an agreement be entered into between the two Governments as follows :

I

Subject to such conditions as may from time to time be agreed

Use of airway facilities, etc.

upon between the Armed Forces of Canada and the Armed Forces

of the United States, aircraft of the United States Armed Forces

engaged in air transport or ferry services (including aircraft being

delivered to third countries) whether operated and maintained directly by military personnel or by United States or Canadian civilian

personnel under contract with the United States Armed Forces, may, during the present war, fly into, through and away from Canada and

may use all airway facilities including landing fields, meteorological services, radio ranges and radio communications which are available

to aircraft of the Armed Forces of Canada, and, subject to the con-

currence of the Government of Newfoundland , all similar airway

facilities operated by Canada in Newfoundland territory, along the routes which they are now flying and which are set forth in Part One of the attached confidential memorandum, [ 1 ] provided that aircraft

Post, p. 3947.

operated and maintained by civilian personnel under contract with the United States Armed Forces shall be restricted to the routes

indicated in Part One A of the attached confidential memorandum.

II

Subject to such conditions as may from time to time be agreed upon between the Armed Forces of Canada and the Armed Forces
of the United States, aircraft of the Armed Forces of Canada engaged in air transport or ferry services ( including aircraft being

¹No longer confidential.

3944

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Post D. 3948,

delivered to third countries) whether operated and maintained directly by military personnel or by Canadian or United States civilian personnel under contract with the Armed Forces of Canada, may, during the present war, fly into, through and away from United States territory, including Alaska and Hawaii, and may use all airway facilities including landing fields, meteorological services, radio ranges and radio communications, which are available to aircraft of the United States Armed Forces in such territory, and, subject to the concurrence of the Government of Newfoundland, all similar airway facilities operated by the United States in Newfoundland territory, along the routes which they are now flying and which are set forth in Part Two of the attached confidential memorandum, provided that aircraft operated and maintained by civilian personnel under contract with the Armed Forces of Canada shall be restricted to the routes indicated in Part Two A of the attached confidential memorandum.
III

Additional flying routes over Canadian territory.
Post, p. 3948.

(a) The Armed Forces of the United States will not establish over Canadian territory regular flying routes for air transport or ferry services additional to those which are set forth in Part One B of the attached confidential memorandum without first having sought and obtained the approval of the Government of Canada. The Gov-

ernment of Canada agrees to give prompt and sympathetic consideration to any request submitted by the Government of the United

States for additional routes for air transport or ferry services which the latter Government believes to be desirable to meet the changing conditions of war.

Post, p. 3947.

(b) Except in an emergency not extending for a period longer than 60 days, the Armed Forces of the United States will not cause any civilian contractors additional to the contractors listed in Part One A of the attached memorandum to operate air transport services

over Canadian territory, nor will they cause the contractors listed in the said memorandum to operate services over routes other than as

indicated therein, without first having sought and obtained the approval of the Government of Canada.

IV

Additional flying routes over U.S. terri-

(a) The Armed Forces of Canada will not establish over the terri-

tory.

tory of the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, regular

flying routes for air transport or ferry services additional to those

which are set forth in Part Two B of the attached confidential memo-

Post, p. 3948.

randum without first having sought and obtained the approval of

the Government of the United States. The Government ofthe United

States agrees to give prompt and sympathetic consideration to any request submitted by the Government of Canada for additional routes for air transport or ferry services which the latter Government believes to be desirable to meet the changing conditions of war.

(b) Except in an emergency not extending for a period longer than

62 STAT. ]

CANADA-AVIATION- FEB. 13, 1945

3945

60 days, the Armed Forces of Canada will not cause any civilian contractors additional to the contractors listed in Part Two A of
the attached memorandum to operate air transport services over United States territory, including Alaska and Hawaii, nor will they cause the contractors listed in the said memorandum to operate services over routes other than as indicated therein, without first having sought and obtained the approval of the Government of the United States.

Post, p. 3948.

V

Operation by cerAircraft operated on behalf of the United States Armed Forces by tain civilian personnel civilian personnel under contract with the United States Armed of U.S., restriction.
Forces over routes in Canada shall conform in all respects with such
regulations governing traffic control, routing and recognition as may be applicable to aircraft operated in air transport or ferry services by military personnel of the Armed Forces of the United States and of Canada in Canada. Neither the aircraft nor the civilian personnel
engaged in the operation or maintenance thereof nor any office or other building used by the aircraft or the civilian personnel (unless also used by such civilian contractor in conjunction with authorized
civil air transport services ) shall bear or display any identifying markings or insignia advertising or publicizing the name of any commercial airline company.

VI
Aircraft operated on behalf of the Armed Forces of Canada by Operation tancivilian personnel
civilian personnel under contract with the Armed Forces of Canada of Canada, restriction . over routes in the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, shall conform in all respects with such regulations governing traffic control, routing and recognition as may be applicable to aircraft operated in air transport or ferry services by military personnel of the Armed Forces of Canada and of the United States in the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii. Neither the aircraft nor the civilian personnel engaged in the operation or maintenance thereof nor any office or other building used by the aircraft or the civilian personnel (unless also used by such civilian contractor in conjunction with authorized civil air transport services) shall bear or display any identifying markings or insignia advertising or publicizing the name of any commercial airline company.

VII

(a) No passengers, goods or mail originating at or destined to points in Canada shall be carried for reward or hire on any aircraft operated by or on behalf of the Armed Forces of the United States

Carriage of passengers, etc., for hire.

into, through or away from Canada pursuant to the provisions of

Articles I and III of this agreement. Similarly, no passengers, goods or mail originating at or destined to points in the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii , shall be carried for reward or hire on any aircraft operated by or on behalf of the Armed Forces of

3946

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

Canada into, through or away from the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii , pursuant to the provisions of Articles II and IV of this agreement.
(b) Passengers, goods and mail other than those referred to in paragraph ( a ) of this Article may be carried for reward or hire on the aircraft referred to in this Article.
(c) The traffic of the aircraft referred to in paragraph (b) of this Article which may be carried shall be limited to passengers, goods or mail, the transportation of which is important in furtherance of the prosecution of the war, to relief or rehabilitation activities, or necessary to speed a return to peace-time conditions.

VIII

Exceptions to provisions.

The provisions of this agreement shall not be applicable to the

tactical movement of combat type aircraft or to occasional flights

of transport type aircraft belonging to the Armed Forces of either

government, nor to any service conducted by a commercial airline com-

pany over a route for which it holds a certificate, license or permit

issued by the competent aeronautical authorities of the respective Governments.
IX

Inconsistent undertakings superseded.

Upon entry into force of this agreement, the provisions hereof shall supersede any undertakings between the Government of Canada and the Government of the United States inconsistent therewith and

pertaining to this subject and these undertakings shall not be deemed to be revived on termination of this agreement.

Termination. Ante, p. 3943.
Entry into force.

X

Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles I and II of this agreement, this agreement may be terminated at any time on six months'

notice given in writing by either government to the other government. All rights acquired by either government under this agreement shall

terminate for all purposes at the end of the present war. This agreement shall come into force on the 13th day of February, 1945.
If these proposals are acceptable to the Government of Canada this

note and your reply thereto, accepting the proposals, shall be regarded as placing on record the understanding arrived at between the two Governments concerning this matter.
Accept, Sir, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.

LEWIS CLARK Lewis Clark,

Enclosure.

Charge d'Affaires ad interim.

The Right Honorable The Secretary of State for External Affairs, Ottawa.

62 STAT. ]

CANADA-AVIATION- FEB. 13, 1945 [Enclosure]
CONFIDENTIAL [ ¹] PART ONE
THE UNITED STATES

A. Routes which may be operated by civil air carriers under contract with the Armed Forces of the United States.
1. Great Falls to Fairbanks via Lethbridge-Calgary- EdmontonGrand Prairie-Fort St. John-Fort Nelson-Watson LakeWhitehorse- Northway-Tanacross- Big Delta. Northwest Airlines, Incorporated Western Air Lines, Incorporated .
2. Seattle to Edmonton. Northwest Airlines, Incorporated United Air Lines Transport Corporation
3. Minneapolis or Fargo to Edmonton via Regina. Northwest Airlines, Incorporated
4. Seattle to Annette Island via Prince George. Northwest Airlines, Incorporated Pan American Airways, Incorporated United Air Lines Transport Corporation
5. Seattle to Alaska via Annette Island and Juneau crossing over Canadian territory, or via Prince George-Fort St. JohnFort Nelson-Watson Lake-Whitehorse-Northway-TanacrossBig Delta.
Northwest Airlines, Incorporated Pan American Airways, Incorporated United Air Lines Transport Corporation 6. Canol Project :
Edmonton-Waterways- Embarras- Fort Smith-Resolution- Hay River-Providence- Mills Lake-Wrigley- Norman- Canol Camp or Norman Wells.
Between any of the following points : Edmonton-WaterwaysEmbarras-Fort Smith- Resolution-Hay River-Providence- Mills Lake-Simpson-Wrigley-Norman-Canol Camp or Norman Wells.
Northwest Airlines, Incorporated United Air Lines Transport Corporation
7. Presque Isle or other points in Eastern United States to United Kingdom or Port Lyautey via Gander, Harmon , Botwood or Shediac .
American Export Airlines, Incorporated Pan American Airways, Incorporated
' No longer confidential.

3947

3948

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
8. Presque Isle or other points in Eastern United States to United Kingdom via Goose Bay, Gander, Harmon, Botwood or Shediac . American Airlines, Incorporated Transcontinental & Western Air, Incorporated
9. Presque Isle or other points in Eastern United States to Marrakech via Gander. American Airlines, Incorporated Transcontinental & Western Air, Incorporated
10. Presque Isle or other points in Eastern United States to Greenland or Iceland via Goose Bay. American Airlines, Incorporated Northeast Airlines, Incorporated Transcontinental & Western Air, Incorporated
11. Presque Isle or other points in Eastern United States to Goose Bay-BW-1 (or BW-8 ) Iceland or BW-2. American Airlines , Incorporated Northeast Airlines, Incorporated Transcontinental & Western Air, Incorporated
12. On flights from points in the United States to Newfoundland, Greenland or Iceland , stops may be made at Dorval or Mingan en route. American Airlines, Incorporated Northeast Airlines, Incorporated Transcontinental & Western Air, Incorporated
13. Crimson Route Northeast Airlines, Incorporated
B. Routes which may be operated by the Armed Forces of The United States. 1. All of the routes listed in A above. 2. Columbus to Fort William via Minneapolis and Duluth. 3. Columbus to Montreal via Detroit, Toronto and Ottawa. 4. New York to Argentia via Sydney, Nova Scotia. 5. Fort William to Minneapolis.
PART TWO
CANADA
A. Routes which may be operated by civil air carriers under contract with the Armed Forces of Canada.
None
B. Routes which may be operated by the Armed Forces of Canada.
1. Megantic to Moncton via Millinocket and Houlton.

62 STAT. ]

CANADA-AVIATION- FEB. 13, 1945

3949

The Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs to the American Ambassador

NO. 12 EXCELLENCY :

DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS
CANADA
OTTAWA, February 13, 1945.

I have the honour to acknowledge your note No. 285 of February 13 in which you propose that an agreement be entered into between the Canadian and United States Governments concerning air services of the Armed Forces of Canada and the United States.
The proposals set forth in your note are acceptable to the Canadian Government, and it is agreed that your note and this reply shall be regarded as placing on record the understanding arrived at between the two Governments concerning this matter.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
N. A ROBERTSON

for Secretary of State for External Affairs.

His Excellency The United States Ambassador to Canada, Embassy of the United States of America, Ottawa, Canada.

Ante, p. 3943.

3950

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

DeJcaenmubaerry 159,, 1139,471,9a48nd [T. I. A. S. 2061]

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting a cooperativefood production program in Haiti, confirming and extending the agreement of August 28, 1944, as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Port-au-Prince December 19, 1947, and

January 5, 1948; entered into force January 5, 1948. And agreements between the Haitian Government and the Institute of Inter-

American Affairs . And exchange of notes signed January 13, 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Haitian Minister for Foreign Relations

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 433

Port-au-Prince , Haiti, December 19, 1947

EXCELLENCY :

Post, p. 3953.

I have the honor to refer to the agreement executed on August 28, 1944 between the Minister of Agriculture on behalf of the Govern ment of Haiti and the Vice-President of the Institute of Inter- Ameri-

can Affairs on behalf of the United States, as amended and extended by subsequent agreements signed by representatives of the two parties

39P6o5s. t, pp. 3961 , 3964,
Additional activi ties .

on July 20, 1945 , October 16 , 1945, and December 27, 1946, providing for a cooperative program in food production in the Republic of Haiti .
In accordance with such agreements, the cooperative program in
food production was inaugurated in Haiti and a small staff of experts and technicians was sent to Haiti by the Institute to cooperate with officials of the Haitian Government in realizing the objectives of such program. As your Government is aware, recent studies made by officials of the Haitian Government in cooperation with members of the field staff of the Institute in Haiti have resulted in a proposal that certain additional activities be undertaken and carried out in order to

Additional funds.

accomplish more fully the general objectives of the program provided further funds are made available by the Haitian Government and the Institute for such additional activities.
I have now been informed by the Department of State in Washington that the Institute, on behalf of the United States Government,

will, if the Government of Haiti so desires, agree to the contribution of additional funds in the amount of $25,000 to be used in carrying out the program on condition that the Government of Haiti con-

tribute an additional amount having the equivalent in Haitian currency of $75,000 U.S. Cy.
Except for the contributions of the additional funds, as mentioned above, all of the present terms and conditions provided for in the existing arrangement between the Government of Haiti and the In-

stitute with respect to the cooperative program in food production

62 STAT. ]

Dec. 19, 1947 HAITI-FOOD PRODUCTION- Jan. 5, 13, 1948

shall remain in effect during the period covered by the present agreement, that is, through June 30, 1948.
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed arrangement as outlined above is acceptable to your Government, I should appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion , and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that final arrangements for signing a proposed Supplemental Agreement covering such matters may be made by the officials of the Government of Haiti and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

HAROLD H. TITTMANN

His Excellency EDMÉE MANIGAT Minister for Foreign Affairs Port-au-Prince

The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Relations ad interim to the American Ambassador

SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT DES
RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES EC/A-4 : 391
MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,

RÉPUBLIQUE D'HAÏTI Port-au-Prince, le 5 Janvier 1948.

Faisant suite à ma lettre du 26 Décembre écoulé No. EC/A-4 : 365,

j'ai l'honneur d'informer Votre Excellence que le Gouvernement Haitien est disposé à verser une valeur de $75.000.00 U.S.Cy comme quote-part additionnelle à l'exécution du programme coopératif pour la production de vivres alimentaires.

En conséquence il m'est agréable de porter à la connaissance de Votre Excellence que le Gouvernement Haitien est prêt à signer l'Accord supplémentaire visé dans sa lettre du 19 Décembre dernier , No. 433.

Je saisis cette occasion pour réitérer à Votre Excellence , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur , l'assurance de ma très haute considération.
HONORAT

Georges Honorat Secrétaire d'Etat des Relations Extérieures a. i.

Son Excellence Monsieur HAROLD H. TITTMANN, Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire des Etats- Unis d'Amérique Port-au-Prince.

3951

3952 Ante, p. 3950.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Translation

MINISTRY OF STATE FOR
FOREIGN RELATIONS
EC/A-4: 391
MR. AMBASSADOR :

REPUBLIC OF HAITI Port-au-Prince, January 5, 1948.

Following my letter No. EC/A-4 : 365 of December 26, [ 1 ] last, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Haitian Government is prepared to contribute the amount of $75,000.00 , United States Currency, as an additional share for the implementation of the cooperative program of foodstuffs production.
Consequently, I have the pleasure of notifying Your Excellency that the Haitian Government is ready to sign the supplementary Agreement referred to in its letter of December 19 last, No. 433.
I avail myself of this opportunity to repeat to Your Excellency , Mr. Ambassador, the assurance of my very high consideration.
HONORAT

Georges Honorat Secretary of State for Foreign Relations ad interim

His Excellency Mr. HAROLD H. TITTMANN,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America Port-au-Prince.

¹ Not printed.

Dec. 19, 1947

62 STAT. ]

HAITI- FOOD PRODUCTION- Jan. 5, 13, 1948

1

3953

Memorandum of agreement between the Haitian Government and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs . Signed at Port-au-Prince, August 28, 1944; operative August 28, 1944.

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT

The Government of the Republic of Haiti (hereinafter referred to as the "Government") and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs
(hereinafter referred to as the "Institute") , a corporation of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the

The Government. The Institute.

Government of the United States of America, have agreed to undertake a cooperative food production program for the purpose of alleviating adverse effects of the present war upon Haitian agriculture by assisting in the production of food crops with a view to stabilizing Haitian agriculture and increasing the supply of food available in accordance with the following terms and conditions.

1. The cooperative food supply program may include ( a) furnishing the Haitian farmers with seeds, planting stock, tools , insecticides, and other similar materials, and establishing grain storage and grain

Food production program .

protection facilities in the Republic ; ( b) training Haitian Agricultural personnel ; ( c ) furnishing technical advice and assistance to the Government of Haiti and to the farmers cooperating in increasing

food production ; and ( d ) such other projects and activities as may
be determined necessary and advisable to stimulate the production of food crops .

2. The Institute will provide a field party of agricultural specialists acceptable to the Minister of Agriculture to assist in the consummation of the cooperative food production program. The field party shall be under the direction of an official who shall have the title of Chief of Field Party, Food Supply Division, The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs. This official shall be the representative of the

Field party. ChiefofField Party.

Institute in connection with the program to be undertaken in accordance with this agreement. The field party shall be of such size as the Institute, in agreement with the Department of Agriculture, considers appropriate.
3. The cooperative food production program in Haiti shall consist of individual projects to be undertaken for the purpose of implementing the program. The projects and the funds allocated therefor shall

Individual projects.

be mutually agreed upon by the Minister of Agriculture for the Re-

public and the Chief of Field Party for the Institute. 4. The cooperative food production program shall be undertaken
and administered by the Ministry of Agriculture, with the assistance

Administration

3954

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

of the Institute. In order that there may be funds to be used for the purpose of carrying out the cooperative food production program, it is agreed that the Institute shall make available the sum of $125,000 and that the Government shall make available the sum of

acEcsoutnatblinisbhamnekn.t of $50,000. The funds to be made available by the two parties to this agreement are to be deposited in a bank named by the Government in

the Republic of Haiti , which account shall be known as the "Cooperative Food Production Program-The Institute of Inter-American Affairs". The Government agrees to deposit the sum of $50,000 in said account upon the execution of this agreement and the Institute agrees to deposit the sum of $50,000 in said account upon the execution

of this agreement. The Institute will also deposit in said account in such time or times and as required in the discretion of the Minister of Agriculture and the Chief of Party the additional sum of $75,000, making a total of $125.000 contribution by the Institute. The checks drawn against said account shall be signed by the Chief of Party of the Institute and an official designated by the Minister of Agriculture. fuDnidss.bursement of The funds in the said account shall be disbursed by the Chief of Party only upon projects having the mutual approval of the Minister of

Agriculture and the Chief of Party. Contracts and agreements involving the use of the funds of the said account shall be executed in the name of the Institute. The books and records of the Institute

Reports.

relating to the cooperative food production program in Haiti, shall be open at all times to inspection by both parties or authorized officials of the Government of Haiti . The Institute will furnish the Minister

of Agriculture with such reports and accounting of funds of the said

joint account at such times and in such detail as agreed to by the

Funds withheld for purchases in U. S.

Minister of Agriculture and the Chief of Party. 5. In view of the fact that some of the materials and supplies to
be used in furthering the program must necessarily be purchased in

the United States of America and paid for in dollars, the Chief of Party, upon joint approval of himself and the Minister of Agriculture

may withhold from the deposits to be made by the Institute as herein-

above provided, an amount estimated to be necessary to pay for in

dollars the purchases of materials and supplies in the United States

of America. Any funds so withheld by the Institute for such pur-

chases and not expended or obligated for materials or supplies shall

be deposited in the said account referred to above at such time or times

as may be determined upon by the two parties referred to in this

Availability offunds; interest, etc.

paragraph.
6. The funds deposited by the parties to this agreement in the said account shall continue to be available for the purpose of this program during the existence of this agreement. Interest, if any, on anybalances of funds to the credit of the said account shall be used for the

purpose of carrying out the cooperative food production program.

The parties hereto shall determine by mutual agreement the disposi

tion of any unobligated funds remaining to the credit of the said

Exemption from taxes.

account upon the termination of this agreement. 7. All employees of the Institute who are citizens of the United
States and who are engaged in carrying out the objectives of the co-

62 STAT. ]

HAITI- FOOD PRODUCTION- Dec. 19, 1947 Jan. 5, 13, 1948

3955

operative food production program shall be exempted from all income tax payable to the Government of Haiti and from property taxes on

personal property intended for their own use. Such employees shall also be exempt from head taxes and payment of custom and import duties on their personal effects, equipment and supplies for their own use.

If such effects are sold in Haiti, declaration will be made before

the Fiscal Department of the National Bank of Haiti and full duty

will be paid by the employees involved. 8. The Government of Haiti in addition to the cash provided for
above shall also furnish, if possible, office space, office equipment, except

Office space, equipment, etc., furnished
by Haiti.

type-writer and adding machines, furnishings and will furnish such

other materials and supplies, except automotive equipment, as are

available and which may be necessary for the projects to be undertaken in connection with the cooperative food production program .

9. The Institute, in assisting with the cooperative food production program , shall be entitled to free postal, telegraph and telephone service, passes on railroads, rebates or preferential tariffs by domestic

companies of maritime and river navigation , air travel, telegraph, telephone, railroad, etc., as are allowed to departments of the Government of Haiti and also freedom and immunity from import duties , excise, stamp, property, and any or all other taxes as well as all consular fees and charges, as allowed to departments of the Haitian Government.

Post, p. 3964.

10. The salaries, living allowances, traveling expenses and any other amounts directly payable to personnel of the Institute including the Chief of Party shall be paid exclusively from funds of the Institute and shall not be credited against the funds required to be deposited in the account herein described.
11. The Institute does not engage to make available any equipment, supplies or materials which are deemed necessary and essential by the Government of the United States of America to any phase of the war effort.

12. At the termination of this agreement, all property in the control

of the parties to this agreement and which has been purchased with

the funds of the said account shall be the property of the Government of Haiti.

Delegation ofrights, 13. All rights, powers, and duties conferred by this agreement upon powers, etc.

the Minister of Agriculture or the Chief of Party may be delegated

to representatives thereof, provided that the said representatives shall

be satisfactory to the other party. 14. This memorandum of agreement may be amended if deemed ad-

Amendment.

visable by the Government of Haiti and the Institute of Inter-

American Affairs and the amendments are to be in writing and signed

by the representatives of the Government of Haiti and the Institute

of Inter-American Affairs.

15. The Government of Haiti shall take the necessary legal steps to effectuate the terms of this agreement.
68706-52- PT. III---85

3956

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Effective date; duration.

16. This memorandum of agreement shall be effective as of the date

hereof and shall remain in force until September 30, 1945.

Any balance of money not spent at the expiration of the term of this agreement shall be used to continue projects under way or previously agreed upon by the two parties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned , duly authorized, sign the memorandum of agreement in duplicate, in English and in French, at Port-au -Prince, this 28th day of August 1944.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI M DARTIGUE

FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS W C BRISTER

62 STAT. ]

HAITI- FOOD PRODUCTION- Dec. 19, 1947 Jan. 5, 13, 1948

3957

MEMORANDUM D'ACCORD
Le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti ( désigné ci -après "Le Gouvernement" ) et l'Institut des Affaires Inter-Américaines (désigné ci-après "L'Institut ") , division de l'Office du Coordonnateur des Af-
faires Inter-Américaines, Agence du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, sont d'accord pour entreprendre un programme coopératif de production de vivres alimentaires, dans le but d'alléger les conditions défavorables causées par la présente guerre sur l'agriculture haitienne en aidant à la production de produits alimentaires, dans le but de stabiliser l'agriculture haitienne et d'augmenter l'approvisionnement de vivres disponibles, selon les termes et conditions suivants :
1.-Le programme coopératif de production de vivres alimentaires pourra comprendre : ( a) remise aux agriculteurs haitiens de semences, boutures, instruments aratoires, insecticides et autres matériels similaires et l'installation dans le pays de silos pour la conservation et l'emmagasinage de produits alimentaires ; ( b ) facilités d'entrainement pour le personnel agricole Haitien ; (c) conseil et assistance technique au Gouvernement Haitien et aux agriculteurs coopérant à l'augmentation de la production des vivres alimentaires, et, (d) tous autres projets et activités qui pourront être reconnus nécessaires et recommandables pour stimuler la production des vivres alimentaires.
2.- L'Institut fournira un groupe de Spécialistes en Agriculture acceptable au Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture pour aider à la réalisation du programme coopératif de production de vivres. Ce groupe de spécialistes sera placé sous la direction d'un fonctionnaire qui aura le titre de "Chef du Corps Technique délégué en Haiti , Division de Production de Vivres, Institut des Affaires Inter-Américaines." Ce fonctionnaire sera le représentant de l'Institut en ce qui concerne le programme à entreprendre en vertu de cet accord. Le Corps Technique comprendra autant de membres que l'Institut jugera nécessaire, d'accord avec le Département de l'Agriculture.
3.-Le programme coopératif de production de vivres alimentaires en Haiti consistera en projets spéciaux qui seront entrepris dans le but d'exécuter le dit programme. Les projets et les fonds qui y seront affectés seront conjointement approuvés par le Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture, pour le Gouvernement, et par le Chef du Corps Tech-
nique, pour l'Institut. 4.- Le programme coopératif de production de vivres alimentaires
sera entrepris et administré par le Département de l'Agriculture, avec l'assistance de l'Institut. Afin de constituer les fonds nécessaires en vue de l'exécution du programme coopératif de production de vivres alimentaires, il est entendu que l'Institut avancera la somme de $ 125.000 et le Gouvernement la somme de $50.000. -Les fonds qui devront être

3958

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
versés par les deux parties à cet accord devront être déposés dans une banque, en Haiti , désignée par le Gouvernement, lesquels constitueront un compte désigné sous la rubrique : "Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires-Institut des Affaires InterAméricaines". Le Gouvernement accepte de verser la somme de $50.000 au dit compte dès la mise en vigueur du présent accord et l'Institut accepte également de déposer la somme de $50.000 au dit compte au même moment. L'Institut déposera en outre au dit compte, en un seul versement ou par tranches, à la discrétion du Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture et du Chef du Corps Technique, la somme ad-
ditionnelle de $75.000, portant ainsi le total des contributions de l'Institut à $ 125.000. Les chèques émis sur ce compte devront être signés par le Chef du Corps Technique de l'Institut et par un représentant du Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture.
Les fonds du dit compte seront dépensés par le Chef du Corps Technique, seulement pour les projets qui auront été approuvés par le Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture conjointement avec le Chef du Corps Technique. Les contrats et accords impliquant l'usage des fonds du dit compte devront être exécutés au nom de l'Institut. Les livres et archives de l'Institut, relatifs au programme coopératif de production de vivres alimentaires en Haiti, devront être ouverts à n'importe qual moment pour l'inspection par les deux parties
au présent accord ou par des fonctionnaires autorisés du Gouvernement d'Haiti. L'Institut fournira au Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture tous rapports et pièces comptables relatifs aux fonds du dit compte commun aux deux parties, à tel moment et dans tels détails qui seront fixés par le Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture et le Chef du Corps Technique.
5.- Etant donné qu'une partie du matériel et des fournitures à employer dans l'exécution du programme doit être nécessairement achetée aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique et payée en dollars, le Chef du Corps Technique, après accord avec le Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture, pourra retenir des versements, plus haut mentionnés, à faire par l'Institut, toute somme reconnue nécessaire pour payer en dollars les achats de matériel et fournitures faits aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Tout fonds retenu par l'Institut pour de tels achats et qui n'aura pas été dépensé ou qui ne sera pas déjà engagé pour achat de matériel ou
fournitures sera versé au dit compte, à tel moment qui pourra être déterminé par les deux parties mentionnées au présent paragraphe
6.- Les fonds déposés au dit compte par les parties au présent accord continueront à être disponibles pour l'exécution de ce programme pendant la durée de cet accord. Les intérêts, s'il y en a, sur toutes balances de fonds au crédit du dit compte seront utilisés dans le but de mener à bonnes fins le programme coopératif de production de vivres alimentaires. Les parties, en outre, détermineront, après entente mutuelle, l'utilisation de tous fonds sur lesquels il n'y aura aucune obligation et restant au crédit du dit compte au moment de la cessation du présent accord.

62 STAT. ]

Dec. 19, 1947 HAITI-FOOD PRODUCTION-
Jan. 5, 13, 1948

7.-Tous les employés de l'Institut qui seront citoyens des EtatsUnis et qui seront engagés dans l'exécution du programme coopératif de production de vivres alimentaires seront exonérés de tout impôt sur le revenu payable au Gouvernement d'Haiti et de toute taxe sur les biens mobiliers destinés à leur usage personnel. De tels employés
seront aussi dispensés du paiement de la carte d'identité, du permis de séjour, des droits de douane à l'importation sur leurs effets personnels et sur les équipements et fournitures destinés à leur usage personnel . En cas de vente, en Haiti , de ces derniers articles, déclaration devra être faite au préalable à la Banque Nationale de la République d'Haiti ( Département Fiscal ) qui émettra des bordereaux en paiement des droits de Douane, conformément aux lois douanières.
8.- Le Gouvernement d'Haiti , outre la valeur versée, comme stipulé plus haut, fournira également, si possible, le logement pour les bureaux, les ameublements et matériel de bureau, excepté les machines à écrire et à calculer, et fournira également tels autres matériels et fournitures dont il dispose, excepté le matériel roulant, qui peuvent être nécessaires pour les projets à entreprendre en relation avec le programme coopératif de production de vivres.
9.-L'Institut, en donnant son assistance en vue du programme coopératif de production des vivres , aura droit à la franchise postale, à l'usage gratuit du Service des téléphones et télégraphes, passage sur les chemins de fer, rabais ou tarifs préférentiels accordés par les Compagnies locales, maritimes et de navigation fluviale, de ligne aérienne, de téléphones , de télégraphes, de chemins de fer , etc.. , tels que ces franchise, usage gratuit, rabais ou tarifs préférentiels sont accordés aux Services du Gouvernement Haitien, ainsi que l'exemption des droits d'accise et d'importation et de toutes autres taxes, y compris les taxes et frais consulaires, pour autant que les Services du Gouvernement en sont exonérés.
10.- Les salaires, les frais de logement et d'entretien, les dépenses pour voyages et toutes autres valeurs directement payables au personnel de l'Institut, y compris le Chef du Corps Technique , seront payés exclusivement avec les fonds de l'Institut et ne seront pas supportés
par les fonds qui doivent être déposés au compte prévu au présent accord .
11.- L'Institut ne s'engage à fournir aucun équipement, fournitures ou matériel qui sont jugés nécessaires et essentiels par le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique à n'importe quelle phase de l'effort de Guerre.
12.- A l'expiration de cet Accord tous les biens en la possession des parties au présent accord et qui auront été achetés avec les fonds du compte plus haut mentionné seront propriété de l'Etat Haitien.
13.- Tous droits, pouvoirs et obligations conférés par cet accord au Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture ou au Chef du Corps Technique pourront être délégués à des représentants, pourvu que ces représentants soient acceptables à l'autre partie.
14.-Ce Memorandum d'Accord pourra être amendé au gré du Gouvernement Haitien et de l'Institut des Affaires Inter-Américaines et

3959

3960

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
les amendements devront être faits par écrit signés par les représentants du Gouvernement d'Haiti et de l'Institut des Affaires InterAméricaines.
15.- Le Gouvernement d'Haiti prendra les mesures légales pour rendre effectif les termes du présent Accord.
16.- Ce Memorandum d'Accord sera effectif à la dâte de sa signature et restera en vigueur jusqu'au 30 Septembre 1945. Toute balance de fonds non dépensée à l'expiration de cet accord, devra être utilisée pour continuer les projets en cours ou ceux qui auront été antérieurement approuvés par les deux parties.
En foi de quoi , les soussignés dûment autorisés, signent le présent Memorandum d'Accord en double, en anglais et en français, à Port-auPrince, ce 28 Août 1944.
M DARTIGUE
POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI W C BRISTER
POUR L'INSTITUT DES AFFAIRES INTER-AMERICAINES

62 STAT. ]

HAITI- FOOD PRODUCTION- Dec. 19, 1947 Jan. 5, 13, 1948

3961

Extension agreement between the Haitian Government and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. Signed at Port-au-Prince, June 25, 1945, and at Washington July 20, 1945; operative July 20, 1945.
EXTENSION AGREEMENT

The Government of the Republic of Haiti ( hereinafter referred to as "the Government" ) and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs (hereinafter referred to as "the Institute" ) , a corporation of the Office

" The Government."
"The Institute."

of Inter-American Affairs ( formerly the Office of the Coordinator of

Inter-American Affairs) and an Agency of the United States of

America, having jointly executed on August 28, 1944, a Memorandum of Agreement (hereinafter called "the Agreement" ) covering a Cooperative Food Production Program in the Republic, and in view of the mutual advantages and benefits that are being derived by the two nations from the operation of such cooperative program have

Ante, p . 3953. "The Agreement."

agreed to extend the Agreement in accordance with the following terms and conditions :

1. In addition to the sum of $ 125,000 made available by the Institute as referred to in paragraph 4 of the Agreement, the Institute shall make available the additional sum of $50,000 for the con-

Additional sums for continuation.
Ante, p. 3953.

tinuation of the cooperative food production program in Haiti , thereby making a total of $ 175,000 which the Institute has agreed to provide for such purpose. In addition to the sum of $50,000 made available by the Government, also referred to in paragraph 4 of the Agreement, the Government shall make available for the

continuation of the same program the additional sum of $ 50,000, thereby making a total of $ 100,000 which the Governement has

agreed to provide for such program. 2. The Governement agrees to deposit on October 1 , 1945 in the

Deposits.

bank account "Cooperative Food Production Program-The Institute of Inter-American Affairs" heretofore established pur-

suant to the Agreement, the entire additional sum of $50,000 and

The Institute agrees to deposit the sum of $35,000 in said account on said date. The Institute will also deposit in said account at

such time or times, subsequent to October 1 , 1945, as may be

required in the joint discretion of the Minister of Agriculture and the Chief of Party, the additional sum of $ 15,000 , provided that there may be retained by the Institute from the deposit of said additional sum of $15,000, such portion thereof as the Minister and the Chief of Party may jointly determine should be

retained by the Institute for the purpose of paying in dollars the cost of purchases made in the United States for the said program.

3962
Force and effect of prior agreement .

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
3. The said Agreement will remain in full force and effect for the purpose of extending the said cooperative food production program in Haiti until December 31 , 1946 and the terms and provisions therein contained, except as modified by this Extension Agreement, will apply during the continuation of the said program. The administrative policies and procedures established by joint action of the Minister and the Chief of Party pursuant to, and in order to carry out the terms of, the Agreement will continue to apply with respect to such cooperative program until the termination of the program on December 31, 1946.
4. The Governement of Haiti shall take the necessary legal steps to effectuate the terms of this Extension Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned , duly authorized , sign the extension agreement in duplicate, in English and in French, at Port-auPrince, this 25th day of June 1945 , and in Washington, this 20th day of July 1945.
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
M DARTIGUE By

FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTER AMERICAN AFFAIRS WC BRISTER
By

62 STAT. ]

HAITI-FOOD PRODUCTION- Dec. 19, 1947 Jan. 5, 13, 1948

3963

ACCORD DE PROLONGATION
Le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti (dénommé ci-dessous "le Gouvernement") et l'Institut des Affaires Inter-Américaines ( dénommé ci-dessous "l'Institut") une division de l'Office des Affaires Inter-Américaines ( anciennement l'Office du Coordonnateur des Affaires Inter-Américaines ) et une Agence du Gouvernement des EtatsUnis d'Amérique, ayant conjointement signé le 28 Août 1944 un Memorandum d'Accord ( dénommé ci-dessous "l'Accord") relatif à un Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires et, en vue des avantages et bienfaits mutuels que tirent les deux Nations de l'exécution d'un tel programme coopératif, sont convenus d'étendre la durée de l'Accord suivant les termes et conditions suivants :
1.- En plus de la valeur de $125,000 fournie par l'Institut comme il est mentionné au paragraphe 4 de l'Accord, l'Institut accordera une somme additionnelle de $50,000 pour la continuation du programme coopératif de vivres alimentaires en Haiti, portant ainsi à $175,000 le montant total que l'Institut s'est engagé à fournir à cette fin. En plus de la valeur de $50,000 fournie par le Gouvernement, comme il est aussi mentionné au paragraphe 4 de l'Accord, le Gouvernement donnera pour la continuation du même programme une somme additionnelle de $50,000, ce qui portera à $100,000 le montant total que le Gouvernement a accepté de fournir pour ce programme.
2.- Le Gouvernement s'engage à déposer le ler Octobre 1945 au Compte Spécial "Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires, Institut des Affaires Inter-Américaines" déjà établi en vertu de l'Accord, le montant entier de la somme additionnelle de $50,000 et l'Institut s'engage à déposer la somme de $35,000 au même compte et à la même date. L'Institut déposera aussi au même compte, à l'époque ou aux époques, postérieures au ler Octobre 1945, que le Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture et le Chef du Corps Technique délégué en Haiti jugeront utile, la somme additionnelle de $15,000.- Il est cependant entendu que l'Institut pourra garder aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique toute portion de cette valeur additionnelle de $15,000 que le Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture et le Chef du Corps Technique pourront conjointement décider de faire retenir par l'Institut dans le but de payer en dollars les achats faits aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique pour l'exécution du dit programme.
3.- Le dit Accord restera en vigueur dans le but d'étendre le dit programme de production de vivres alimentaires en Haiti jusqu'au 31 Décembre 1946 et les termes et stipulations qui y sont contenus, excepté ceux qui sont modifiés par cet Accord de Prolongation, seront appliqués durant la continuation du dit programme. 68706-52 - PT. III- -86

3964

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
Les pratiques et procédures administratives établies conjointement par le Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture et le Chef du Corps Technique, en vertu de l'Accord et en vue de son exécution, continueront à être appliquées en ce qui concerne le programme coopératif jusqu'à son expiration le 31 Décembre 1946. 4.- Le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti prendra toute action légale nécessaire pour mettre en exécution les termes du présent Accord de Prolongation.
Le Présent Accord de Prolongation a été signé en double original en Anglais et en Français, à Port-au-Prince, le 25 Juin 1945 et à Washington le 20 Juillet 1945, par les soussignés dûment autorisés.
POUR LE GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI M DARTIGUE
Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture POUR L'INSTITUT DES AFFAIRES INTER-AMERICAINES
W C BRISTER

Memorandum of agreement between the Haitian Government and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. Signed October 16, 1945; operative October 16, 1945.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT [']
AMENDMENT NUMBER 1

Ante, p. 3953. Ante, p. 3955.

The memorandum of agreement executed on behalf of the Republic of Haiti and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs on August 28, 1944, providing for a Cooperative Food Production Program is hereby amended as follows :
On the last line of paragraph 9, the words "as allowed to departments of the Haitian Government" shall be stricken out.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this amendment to be executed by their duly authorized representatives this sixteenth day of October 1945 .
REPUBLIC OF HAITI by M. DARTIGUE
Minister of Agriculture
THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS by J. A. BAZAN
Acting Chief of Party

' No French language text available.

62 STAT. ]

Dec. 19, 1947
HAITI-FOOD PRODUCTIONJan. 5, 13, 1948

3965

Second extension agreement between the Haitian Government and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs. Signed December 27, 1946; operative December 27, 1946.
SECOND EXTENSION AGREEMENT

Relative to the Extension of the Cooperative Program in Food Production undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Haiti and the Government of the United States of America

This Second Extension Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Haiti (hereinafter called the "Government" ) , represented by Maurice Latortue, Minister of Agriculture of the Government of Haiti (hereinafter called the "Minister") , and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the "Institute") , represented by W. C. Brister, Vice President of the Institute, is entered into for the purpose of recording this second extension and modification of the cooperative program which was undertaken pursuant to a Memorandum of Agreement (hereinafter called the "Basic Agreement" ) executed on August 28, 1944 by W. C. Brister, Vice President of the Institute, and M. Dartigue, the Minister. The Basic Agreement was extended until December 31 , 1946 pursuant to the Extension Agreement executed on July 20, 1945 by W. C. Brister, Vice President of the Institute and M. Dartigue, Minister of Agriculture of the Government of Haiti.

The Government. The Minister.
The Institute.
"Basic Agreement." Ante, p. 3953. Ante, p. 3961.

CLAUSE I

The parties hereto mutually intend, agree and declare that the Basic Agreement, as extended , be and hereby is further extended for an additional period of eighteen months, beginning the first day of January, 1947 and continuing until the thirtieth day of June, 1948, and modified according to the clauses hereinafter set forth.

Extension and modification.
Ante, pp. 3953, 3961.

CLAUSE II

Fulfillment offinanThe financial obligations of the Institute and the Government of cial obligations. the Republic of Haiti under the Basic Agreement are considered to have been fulfilled by the contribution of $ 125,000 (USC) in United States currency, materials, supplies and equipment of any kind by the Institute ; and by the contribution of Gourdes equivalent to $50,000 ( USC) by the Government. In the same manner, the financial obligations of the Institute and Government under the Extension Agreement are considered to have been fulfilled by the contribution of $50,000 ( USC ) in United States currency, materials, supplies, and

3966

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

equipment of any kind by the Institute ; and by the contribution of Gourdes equivalent to $50,000 (USC ) by the Government. Any of these funds remaining unexpended at the expiration of the Extension Agreement shall continue to be available for the purposes of the cooperative program of Food Production provided for in this Second Extension Agreement.
CLAUSE III

The Cooperative Food Production Program shall be financed by

the parties during the period comprehended by this agreement as follows :

Deposit by the Institute.
Joint Account.

(a) The Institute shall contribute a sum not to exceed Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000 USC ) which shall be deposited in the joint account which has already been established, entitled "Cooperative Food Production Program- The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs" ( hereinafter called the "Joint Account") , in the following manner :

On or before January 1, 1947 On July 1 , 1947 On December 31 , 1947

$25,000 15,000 10,000

Funds withheld for purchases in U.S.

Total

$50,000

(b) The Institute may withhold from the deposits called for by CLAUSE III (a ) the estimated amounts deemed necessary by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party to pay for the pur-

chase in the United States of America of materials, supplies

and equipment, and other disbursements relating to the execution of this program . Any funds so withheld by the Institute

shall be considered as if deposited under the terms under

CLAUSE III ( a ) hereof but, if they are not expended or obligated for such purposes, they shall be deposited in the Joint

Account at any time upon the mutual agreement of the Minister and the Chief of Field Party of the Institute in Haiti.

(c) In addition to the sum to be deposited in the Joint Account under CLAUSE III ( a) hereof, the Institute will make a

separate allocation of funds necessary to pay the salaries, liv ing expenses, travel and transportation costs and other ad-

ministrative and technical expenses of the members of the Institute Field Party and of other Institute employees in Haiti during the period comprehended by this Second Extension

Agreement. The estimated sum of approximately $150,000 USC will be allocated for these purposes separately and apart

Depositbythe Government.

from the funds to be deposited in the Joint Account by the Institute.
(d) The Government shall deposit into the Joint Account the equivalent in Haitian currency of One Hundred Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ($175,000 USC) at the conversion rate of

five (5) Gourdes per U. S. Dollar in the following manner :

62 STAT. ]

Dec. 19, 1947 HAITI- FOOD PRODUCTION- Jan. 5, 13, 1948

On or before January 1, 1947 On or before July 1, 1947

$87,500 87,500

3967

Total

$175,000

(e ) By written agreement between the Minister and the Chief of

Amendment of deposit schedules.

Field Party of the Institute in Haiti , the schedule for making

deposits as provided under CLAUSES III ( a ) and ( d ) hereof may be amended as required by the needs of the program . (f) Contributions, in addition to those set out in CLAUSES III (a ) and ( d ) hereof, may be received and deposited in the

Additional contributions.

Joint Account from any source whatsoever and expended by it , in the same manner as other funds, for the uses and objectives in the cooperative program in Food Production. (g ) Any funds deposited in the Joint Account which may be unexpended and unobligated at the termination of the period comprehended by this Second Extension Agreement, will remain the property of the Government and continue to be used

Unexpended funds.

in furtherance of the purposes of the cooperative program.

However, in order to insure the realization of the objectives of the Cooperative program of Food Production, the Minister and

the Chief of Field Party of the Institute in Haiti will determine

by mutual agreement the precise use and the disposition to

which all such unexpended and unobligated funds and property will be applied after the expiration of this Second Extension

Agreement.

(h) By mutual agreement between the Minister and the Chief of

Salaries and expenses of additional person-

Field Party of the Institute in Haiti, funds deposited in the nel.

Joint Account may be used to reimburse or to defray the sal-

aries, living expenses, travel and transportation costs and other

expenses of such additional members of the Institute Field

Party and other Institute employees in Haiti as the parties mentioned may agree are necessary to be employed. Such funds may be contributed or granted for such purposes from the Joint Account to the Institute or to any other organization , but in every case the Minister and the Chief of Field Party will enter

into a written project agreement setting forth the scope and other necessary terms of such contributions or grants.

CLAUSE IV

The Chief of Field Party, acting on behalf of the Institute , shall be allowed to withdraw imports and all other shipments from the customs warehouse upon his certification to the Director of Customs that the imports and shipments received consist of equipment or materials to be used in connection with the conduct of the activities of the Cooperative Food Production Program.

CLAUSE V

The administrative policy and procedures heretofore established by joint action of the Minister and the Chief of Field Party, pursuant

3968

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Ante, p. 3953. Ante, p. 3961

to, and in order to carry out the terms of the Basic Agreement and the Extension Agreement, will continue to apply with respect to the Cooperative Food Production program for the period comprehended under this second Extension Agreement.

CLAUSE VI

Force and effect of prior agreements.
Ante, pp. 3953 , 3961.

The Agreement and the Extension Agreement heretofore referred to , shall remain in full force and effect for the purposes of extending the Cooperative Food Production program through June 30, 1948, except as they are modified by or are inconsistent with this Second Extension Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Extension Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives, in duplicate, in the English and French languages at Port-au-Prince, Haiti this twenty- seventh day of December, 1946.

FOR THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI

BY. MAURICE LATORTUE Minister of Agriculture
FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS

BY W. C. BRISTER Vice President

62 STAT. ]

Dec. 19, 1947 HAITI- FOOD PRODUCTION- Jan. 5, 13, 1948

3969

SECOND ACCORD DE PROLONGATION
Relatif à la Prolongation du Programme Coopératif pour la Production de Vivres Alimentaires entrepris par le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti et le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.
Ce Second Accord de Prolongation entre le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti ( ci-après dénommé le "Gouvernement") , représenté par Maurice Latortue, Ministre de l'Agriculture du Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti ( ci-après dénommé le "Ministre") et The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, une agence du Gouvernement des EtatsUnis d'Amérique ( ci-après dénommé "l'Institute" ) représenté par W. C. Brister, Vice-Président de l'Institute, est signé pour prolonger une deuxième fois, tout en le modifiant, le programme coopératif entrepris conformément au Memorandum d'Accord (ci -après dénommé "Accord Originaire") signé le 28 Aout 1944 par W. C. Brister, Vice-Président de l'Institute et M. Dartigue, Ministre. L'Accord Originaire fut prolongé pour une période prenant fin le 31 Décembre 1946, conformément à l'Accord de Prolongation signé le 20 Juillet 1945 par W. C. Birster, Vice- Président de "l'Institute" et M. Dartigue, Ministre de l'Agriculture du Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti.
CLAUSE I
Les parties sus-désignées désirent et conviennent mutuellement que l'Accord Originaire, comme déjà modifié par l'Accord de Prolongation, soit encore prolongé, et , par les présentes, déclarent que l'Accord est prolongé pour une période additionnelle de dix-huit mois, à commencer le premier jour de Janvier 1947 et à finir le trentième jour de Juin 1948, moyennant les modifications prévues aux clauses cidessous.
CLAUSE II
Les obligations financières de "l'Institute" et celles du Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti prises en vertu de l'Accord Originaire sont considérées comme avoir été remplies. Pour "l'Institute", par l'apport de $125,000 ( USC ) en espèces, matériaux, fournitures et matériel de toutes sortes ; et pour le Gouvernement, par l'apport en Gourdes d'une valeur équivalente à $50,000 (USC) . Egalement les obligations de "l'Institute" et celles du Gouvernement prises en vertu de l'Accord de Prolongation sont considérées comme avoir été remplies par l'apport, par "l'Institute" de $50,000 ( USC ) en espèces, matériaux, fournitures et matériel de toutes sortes et par celui, en Gourdes, par le Gouvernement, d'une valeur équivalente à $50,000 ( USC) . Toute valeur non dépensée à l'expiration de l'Accord de Prolongation continuera à être disponible pour l'exécution du programme coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires comme prévu dans ce Second Accord de Prolongation.

3970

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

CLAUSE III
Le Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires sera financé par les parties durant la période stipulée dans cet Accord comme suit :

(a) "L'Institute" contribuera pour une somme n'excédant pas Cinquante Mille Dollars ($50,000 ) USC ) laquelle somme sera déposée dans le compte déjà ouvert sous la rubrique "Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires-

Institute of Inter-American Affairs (ci-après appelé "Compte Commun" ) (Joint Account ) , de la manière suivante :

Le ou avant le 1er Janvier 1947 · Le 1er Juillet 1947 . Le 31 Décembre 1947

· $25,000 . 15,000 · 10,000

Total: $50,000
(b) "L'Institute" peut retenir des fonds déposés suivant la Clause III ( a ) les valeurs estimées nécessaires, par le Ministre et le Chef du Corps Technique (Chief of Field Party) à l'achat, aux Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de matériaux, fournitures et matériel et au paiement des autres dépenses relatives à l'exécution de ce programme. Les valeurs ainsi retenues par "l'Institute" seront considérées comme déposées selon les termes de la Clause III ( a ) , de la présente , mais , si ces valeurs ne sont pas dépensées ou engagées aux fins ci-dessus, elles seront transférées au Compte Commun à n'importe quel moment et ce, suivant commun accord entre le Ministre et le Chef du Corps Technique de "l'Institute" en Haiti.

(c) En addition à la somme à déposer au Compte Commun suivant la Clause III (a ) , dela présente, 1"Institute" fera séparément une prévision de fonds nécessaire au paiement des salaires, frais d'entretien, frais de voyage et de transport et des autres dépenses administratives et techniques des membres de la Mission Technique de "L'Institute" et autres employés de "l'Insti tute" en Haiti durant la période stipulée par ce Second Accord de Prolongation. Une somme estimée à environ $150,000 (USC) sera allouée à ces fins, laquelle somme ne sera pas comprise dans les fonds à déposer par "l'Institute" au Compte Commun .

(d) Le Gouvernement déposera au Compte Commun la contrevaleur en monnaie haitienne de Cent Soixante- Quinze Mille Dollars

($175,000 USC) au taux de conversion de cinq ( 5 ) Gourdes pour un dollar américain , de la manière suivante :

Le ou avant le ler Janvier 1947 · Le ler Juillet 1947 ..

$87,500 87,500

Total : $175,000

62 STAT. ]

HAITI- FOOD PRODUCTION- Dec. 19, 1947 Jan. 5, 13, 1948

(e) Par accord signé du Ministre et du Chef du Corps Technique de "l'Institute" en Haiti, les dates arrêtées aux Clauses III (a) et ( d ) , de la présente, pour déposer les fonds, pourront être changées selon les besoins du programme.
(f) En addition aux apports stipulés aux Clauses III ( a ) et ( d) , de la présente, d'autres apports de quelque provenance que ce soit, peuvent être reçus et déposés au Compte Commun, et seront dépensés suivant la procédure employée pour les autres fonds destinés à l'exécution du programme coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires.
(g) Toute valeur déposée au Compte Commun et non employée ou non engagée à la fin de la période stipulée dans ce Second Accord de Prolongation restera la propriété du Gouvernement et servira à continuer le programme coopératif. Cependant, dans le but d'assurer la réalisation des buts du Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires, le Ministre et le Chef du Corps Technique de "l'Institute" en Haiti d'un commun accord à l'expiration du Second Accord de Prolongation, détermineront l'usage précis des fonds non utilisés et non engagés et celui des autres biens.
(h) D'un commun accord entre le Ministre et le Chef du Corps Technique de "l'Institute" en Haiti , les fonds déposés au Compte Commun peuvent être employés pour rembourser ou couvrir les salaires, frais d'entretien, frais de voyage et de transport et autres dépenses des membres additionnels de la Mission Technique de "l'Institute " et des employés en Haiti que les parties ci -dessus mentionnées peuvent juger nécessaire d'employer. Ces fonds peuvent être tirés du Compte Commun sous forme de contribution ou de don accordé à "l'Institute" ou à toute
autre organisation, mais dans chaque cas, le Ministre et le Chef du Corps Technique devront signer un accord de projet établissant les buts et autres conditions de telle contribution ou don.

CLAUSE IV

Le Chef du Corps Technique , agissant au nom de " l'Institute ", sera autorisé à retirer des dépots de la douane les articles importés et tous autres articles reçus sur un certificat au Directeur de la Douane attestant que ces articles importés et reçus consistant en matériel, fournitures, sont pour l'exécution du Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires.

CLAUSE V

L'organisation administrative et les règlements actuellement en vigueur arrêtés d'un commun accord , entre le Ministre et le Chef du Corps Technique en vue de l'Exécution des termes de l'Accord Originaire et de ceux de l'Accord de Prolongation continueront à être appliqués en ce qui concerne le Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres Alimentaires, pour la période stipulée dans ce Second Accord de Prolongation.

3971

3972

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT,

CLAUSE VI

L'Accord Originaire et l'Accord de Prolongation dont il est fait mention dans le présent instrument, continueront à avoir force et

vigueur pour l'exécution du Programme Coopératif de Production de

Vivres Alimentaires, à l'exception de leurs clauses modifiées par ou

contraires à celles de ce Second Accord de Prolongation.

En foi de quoi , les parties ci-dessus désignées ont fait signer ce

Second Accord de Prolongation par leurs représentants dûment au-

torisés en double original, en texte anglais et en texte français, à

Port-au-Prince, ce vingt-septième jour de Décembre 1946.

GOUVERNEMENT DE LA REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI

PAR :

MAURICE LATORTUE

Ministre de l'Agriculture

THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS

PAR

W. C. BRISTER

Vice-Président

62 STAT. ]

HAITI-FOOD PRODUCTION- JDaenc. 19, 1947 . 5, 13, 1948

3973

SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT
Relative to the Cooperative Program in Food Production undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Haiti and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.

This Supplemental Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Haiti (hereinafter called the "Republic" ) , represented by

The Republic.

Jean David, Secretary of State for Agriculture of the Republic ( hereThe Secretary of
inafter called the "Secretary of State") , and The Institute of Inter- State.

American Affairs, a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the "Institute " ) rep-

The Institute.

resented by W. Alan Laflin, Chief of Field Party of the Food Supply Division of the Institute in Haiti (hereinafter called the "Chief of Field Party" ) , is entered into for the purpose of recording a modifica-

ChiefofField Party.

tion of the Cooperative Food Production Program in Haiti which was

undertaken pursuant to a Memorandum of Agreement executed on August 28, 1944 by the Secretary of State for Agriculture on behalf

Ante, p. 3953.

of the Government of Haiti and the Vice-President of the Institute, as amended and extended by subsequent agreements signed by repre-

sentatives of the two parties on July 20, 1945 , October 16 , 1945 and December 27, 1946 ( all of which agreements are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Basic Agreement" ) .

Ante, pp. 3961, 3964, 3965,
Basic Agreement.

CLAUSE I

The parties hereto mutually intend, agree and declare that the Basic

Supplementation and modification.

Agreement, as extended, be and hereby is further supplemented and

modified according to the Clauses hereinafter set forth.

CLAUSE II

Financial obligaThe parties hereby recognize, and acknowledge their financial ob- tions.

ligations with respect to the Cooperative Food Production Program

as required by the Basic Agreement to be in the amount of $175,000

on the part of the Institute which amount has been and is being contributed by the Institute in the form of United States Currency, ma-

terials, supplies, and equipment ; and an amount equivalent in Haitian

currency of $225,000 ( USC) on the part of the Republic in the form of cash contributions to the joint account entitled , "Cooperative Food

Production Program-The Institute of Inter-American Affairs" referred to in Clause III of the Extension Agreement signed on behalf of the parties hereto on December 27, 1946.

Ante, p. 3966.

3974

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

CLAUSE III

Further financing.

The Cooperative Food Production Program shall be further
financed by the parties during the period ending June 30, 1948 as follows :

A. The Institute shall contribute Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) which shall be deposited to the credit of the joint account referred to in Clause II hereof on or before January 15 , 1948.
B. The Republic shall deposit in the said joint account referred to in Clause II hereof the equivalent in Haitian currency of Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ( $75,000 ) ( USC ) , computed at the conversion rate of 5 Gourdes per U. S. dollar in accordance with the following schedule :

On or before the date of execution of this Supple-

mental Agreement ·

$25,000

On or before January 15, 1948 · . · On or before March 15 , 1948 .

25,000 25,000

Total $75,000
C. The funds, deposited to the joint account referred to in Clause II hereof by either the Republic as to its second required deposit (equivalent of $25,000 USC ) or the Institute as to its only deposit of $25,000, shall not be expended until both such deposits have been made as herein provided.

CLAUSE IV

Ante, pp. 3961, 3964, 3965.

All of the terms and conditions of the Basic Agreement which are not contrary to or inconsistent with the provisions of this Supplemental Agreement shall continue to remain in effect and be completely binding upon the parties hereto .

Effective date. Post. p. 3977.

CLAUSE V

This Supplemental Agreement shall become effective as soon as appropriate diplomatic notes confirming and accepting the terms of this Supplemental Agreement have been exchanged [ ] between the Secretariat of State for Foreign Affairs of the Republic and the Embassy of the United States of America to Haiti.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representa-

tives, in duplicate, in the English and French languages at Port-au-

Prince, Haiti , this

eighth

day of January " 1948.

FOR THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI

By

JEAN DAVID

FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTER AMERICAN AFFAIRS

By

W ALAN LAFLIN

Secretary of State for Agriculture
1 ¹ Jan. 13, 1948.

Chief of Field Party Food Supply Division in
Haiti

62 STAT. ]

Dec. 19, 1947 HAITI-FOOD PRODUCTION- Jan. 5, 13, 1948

3975

ACCORD SUPPLEMENTAIRE
relatif au Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres alimentaires entrepris par le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti et l'Institut
des Affaires Inter-américaines.
Cet accord supplémentaire entre le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti ci-après dénommé la "République", représenté par Monsieur Jean David, Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture ( ci-après dénommé "le Secrétaire d'Etat" ) et l'Institut des Affaires Inter- américaines agence légale du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique ( ci- après dénommé "l'Institut" ) , représenté par Monsieur W. Alan Laflin, Chef de Mission de la Division des Vivres alimentaires de l'Institut en Haiti (ci-après dénommé le "Chef de Mission") est conclu en vue de modifier le Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres alimentaires en Haiti qui a été entrepris conformément à un Memorandum d'Accord signé le 28 août 1944 par le Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture au nom du Gouvernement Haitien et le Vice- Président de l'Institut, tel qu'amendé et prorogé par des accords subséquents signés par les représentants des deux parties le 20 juillet 1945 , le 16 octobre 1945 et le 27 décembre 1946 (tous accords ci -après désignés collectivement par les termes "Accord Principal". )
CLAUSE I
Les parties entendent mutuellement , conviennent et déclarent que l'Accord Principal, tel que prorogé, sera et par la présente est complété et modifié selon les clauses ci-après arrêtées.
CLAUSE II
Les parties reconnaissent par la présente et certifient que leurs obligations financières relativement au Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres alimentaires telles que définies dans l'Accord Principal sont de $175.000 de la part de l'Institut, laquelle somme a été et est actuellement payée par l'Institut sous forme de monnaie légale des Etats-Unis, matériel, fournitures et équipement ; et d'un montant équivalent en monnaie légale d'Haiti de $225.000 (Monnaie légale des Etats-Unis ) de la part de la République, laquelle contribution a été et est actuellement payée par la République sous forme de contribution en argent au compte commun intitulé "Programme Coopératif de Production de Vivres alimentaires-Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines" mentionné dans la clause III de l'Accord de Prorogation signé au nom des parties le 27 décembre 1946.

3976

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

CLAUSE III

Le Programme Coopératif de Proudction de Vivres alimentaires sera en outre financé par les parties pendant la période finissant le 30 juin 1948 de la manière suivante :

A. L'Institut contribuera pour une somme de Vingt-Cinq Mille Dollars ( $25.000 ) qui sera déposée au crédit du compte commun mentionné dans la clause II du présent accord le ou avant le 15 Janvier 1948.

B. La République fera le dépôt audit compte commun mentionné

dans la clause II du présent accord de l'équivalent en monnaie

haitienne de Soixante Quinze Mille Dollars ($75.000 ) (Mon-

naie légale des Etats-Unis) calculé au taux de conversion de 5

Gourdes pour 1 dollar américain conformément au tableau suivant :

A la date ou avant la date d'exécution

du présent accord supplémentaire . Le ou avant le 15 Janvier 1948

· $25.000 25.000

Le ou avant le 15 Mars 1948

25.000

TOTAL $75.000
C. Les fonds, déposés par la République au compte commun mentionné dans la clause II du présent accord comme second dépôt (l'équivalent de $25.000 ( Monnaie légale des Etats-Unis) ou par l'Institut comme unique dépôt de $25.000, ne seront pas dépensés jusqu'à ce que ces deux dépôts aient été faits comme ici prévu. CLAUSE IV

Tous les termes et toutes les conditions de l'Accord Principal qui ne sont pas contraires aux dispositions du présent accord supplémen taire ou incompatibles avec elles continueront à s'appliquer et à lier complètement les parties.
CLAUSE V

Cet accord supplémentaire deviendra effectif aussitôt que les notes diplomatiques le confirmant et l'acceptant auront été échangées entre la Secrétairerie d'Etat des Relations Extérieures de la République d'Haiti et l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis d'Amérique en Haiti.
EN FOI DE QUOI, les parties intéressées , par leurs représentants dument qualifiés, ont signé le présent Accord Supplémentaire en double original, en anglais et en français, à Port- au-Prince, Haiti, ce 8 Janvier 1948

POUR LA REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI JEAN DAVID

POUR L'INSTITUT DES AFFAIRES INTER-AMERICAINES
W ALAN LAFLIN

Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture

Chef de Mission Division des Vivres alimentaires
en Haiti

62 STAT. ]

Dec. 19. 1947
HAITI-FOOD PRODUCTIONJan. 5, 13, 1948

3977

The American Embassy to the Haitian Ministry for Foreign Relations

No. 471

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Secretariat of State for Foreign Affairs and has the honor to confirm and accept the Supplemental Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Haiti and the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America, which was signed at Port -au-Prince the eighth day of January 1948.

Ante, p. 3973.

PORT-AU-PRINCE, January 13, 1948

The Haitian Ministry for Foreign Relations to the American Embassy

SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT DES
RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES

REPUBLIQUE D'HAITI

SG/A-3 : 422

La Secrétairerie d'Etat des Relations Extérieures présente ses compliments à l'Ambassade des Etats-Unis d'Amerique et a l'honneur de l'informer que, le 8 Janvier en cours , a été signé par le Secrétaire d'Etat de l'Agriculture, Monsieur Jean David, et par le représentant de l'Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines, Monsieur W. A. Laflin, le nouvel accord supplémentaire relatif au programme coopératif de Production des vivres alimentaires entrepris par le Gouvernement de la République d'Haiti et l'Institut des Affaires Interaméricaines.

G. H.

PORT-AU-PRINCE, le 13 Janvier 1948.

Translation

MINISTRY OF STATE FOR
FOREIGN RELATIONS
SG/A-3 : 422

REPUBLIC OF HAITI

The Office of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America, and has the honor to inform it that, on the 8th of January, the Secretary of State for Agriculture, Mr. Jean David, and the representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, Mr. W. A. Laflin, signed the new Supplementary Agreement relating to the Cooperative Program for the Production of Foodstuffs undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Haiti and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.

G. H. PORT-AU-PRINCE, January 13, 1948.

Ante, p. 3973.

3978

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

December 8, 1943 [T. I. A. 8. 2063]

Agreement between the United States of America and Mexico respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Mexico, modifying the agreement of June 30 and July 1 , 1943. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Mexico December 8, 1943; entered into force December 8, 1943, operative January 1 , 1944.

The American Ambassador to the Mexican Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 2098

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MÉXICO , D.F. December 8, 1943.

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the note of this Embassy No. 1426 of

57 Stat. 1121, 1123.

June 30 , 1943 , and to Your Excellency's reply No. 344 of July 1, 1943 , through which exchange the Government of the United

States of America and the United Mexican States laid the basis for

a program of cooperation in health and sanitation, which is an imple-

mentation of Resolution No. XXX, approved at the Third Meeting

of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American States held at

Rio de Janeiro in January 1942. I also have to refer to a subsequent

exchange of letters between Dr. Victor Fernández Manero, Jefe del

Departamento de Salubridad de México , and Dr. George C. Dunham, the Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , each

dated July 2 , 1943 , [ '] in which administrative and other details based

upon the exchange of notes above referred to are set forth and mutually

Contribution by Institute.

agreed upon. I am now pleased to inform Your Excellency that the Institute
of Inter-American Affairs, a dependency of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs , in view of the interest expressed by the Government of Mexico in carrying through this program in the broadest and most effective manner, is now prepared , subject to agreement by Your Excellency's Government to the details of this

note, to contribute an additional sum of money for the cooperative program of public health and sanitation in Mexico for the purpose of cooperating with the Ministry of Health and Public Welfare in expanding the cooperative program of public health and sanitation, and

Amount .

providing for the termination of the program so far as the participation of my Government is concerned , within a predetermined period of time.
In addition to the $2,500,000 which my Government indicated that

57 8tat. 1121 .

it was prepared to contribute towards this program in this Embassy's note No. 1426 of June 30 , 1943 , it is now proposed for the consideration of your Government that the Institute of Inter-American Affairs,

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] MEXICO-HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM- DEC. 8, 1943

3979

a dependency of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, contribute an additional sum not to exceed $2,500,000 to be expended over a period of five years, beginning January 1 , 1944 , and that the Government of Mexico agree to use its best efforts to contribute a sum not to exceed $ 2,500,000 to be combined with these funds contributed by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and expended over the same period of time for the cooperative program of public health and sanitation in Mexico .
Under the terms of the agreement reached by the exchange of notes above referred to , the Institute of Inter-American Affairs agreed to contribute $2,500,000 for a cooperative program of public health and sanitation in Mexico , and it is now proposed that this original amount of $2,500,000 which the Institute of Inter-American Affairs has previously agreed to contribute, be allocated on an annual basis through agreement between the Representative of the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs in Mexico and the Minister of Public Health and Public Welfare of Mexico. This amount would be so apportioned
that of the original $ 2,500,000 available , $ 700,000 would be allocated for use in 1943-1944 ; $ 600,000 for the year 1945 ; $ 500,000 for the year 1946 ; $400,000 for the year 1947 ; and $ 300,000 for the year 1948. This , it will be noted, would cover the sum the Institute of Inter-American Affairs agreed to contribute in the exchange of letters between the Jefe del Departamento de Salubridad de Mexico and the Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs under date of July 2 , 1943 .
In order to provide for the allocation and expenditure of the additional sum of not to exceed $2,500,000 which the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs , a dependency of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs , is now prepared to contribute for the purposes outlined above, and the like sum which the Government of Mexico agrees to use its best efforts to contribute during the same period , the sum of not to exceed $2,500,000 contributed by the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs would be apportioned at the rate of $ 500,000 each year for the five years beginning January 1 , 1944. The Government of Mexico will take all the necessary measures to endeavor to contribute an amount not to exceed $ 2,500,000 which will be apportioned at the rate of $300,000 during the year 1944 ; $400,000 in 1945 ; $500,000 in 1946 ; $ 600,000 in 1947 ; and $700,000 in 1948. Through this arrangement the total amount to be expended each year for the cooperative program of health and sanitation would be $ 1,500,000 , considering the remainder of 1943-1944 as one year.
It is proposed for the consideration of Your Excellency that the terms of the original agreement respecting details, as expressed in the exchange of letters between the Jefe del Departamento de Salubridad Publica de Mexico and the Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs dated July 2 , 1943 will remain in effect and in full force with regard to the expenditure of any and all funds contributed by the Government of Mexico and the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs for the cooperative program of health and sanitation to the end of the year 1948-the period during which the total

Allocation .

3980

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
of $5,000,000 contributed by the Government of the United States to the collaborative program shall be available.
For the information of Your Excellency, and as supplementing the exchange of letters referred to in the preceding paragraph, I append hereto a copy of a letter dated November 1 , addressed by General George C. Dunham, the Executive Vice President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, to His Excellency Dr. Gustavo Baz, the Secretary of Public Health and Public Assistance, a copy of a letter addressed by Dr. Baz to General Dunham dated November 6 [' ] in reply, as well as a further letter from General Dunham to Dr. Baz in reply to the latter's letter dated December 6 which also bears the date of December 6.
It is with much satisfaction that I note this further development in this collaborative program of health and sanitation between our two countries , and I have every confidence that Your Excellency will view this development with the same satisfaction , as it is a further evidence of the constantly increasing understanding and collaboration of our two peoples .
Please accept , Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .
GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH Enclosures : [2]
1. Copy of letter from General Dunham to Dr. Baz, dated November 1 , 1943 ;
2. Copy of letter from Dr. Baz to General Dunham , dated December 6, 1943 ;
3. Copy of letter from General Dunham to Dr. Baz, dated December 6 , 1943.
His Excellency Señor Licenciado EZEQUIEL PADILLA, Minister for Foreign Affairs, México, D.F.

The Mexican Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

03104

MÉXICO , D.F. , 8 de diciembre de 1943.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Me es grato acusar recibo de la muy atenta nota Nº 2098 , del día de hoy, en la que Vuestra Excelencia me dice lo siguiente:

"Tengo el honor de referirme a la nota de esta Embajada N° 1426 , del 30 de junio de 1943 , y a la contestación de Vuestra Excelencia , Nº 344 , del 1º de julio de 1943 , por medio de cuyo canje los Gobiernos de los Estados Unidos de América y de los Estados Unidos Mexicanos echaron los cimientos de un programa de cooperación en materia de sanidad e higiene, que proporciona los medios de cumplir la Resolución N° XXX, aprobada en la III

1 The correct date is Dec. 6 , 1943 . 2 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] MEXICO- HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM- DEC. 8, 1943
Reunión de Consulta de los Ministros de Relaciones Exteriores de las Repúblicas Americanas, celebrada en Río de Janeiro, en enero de 1942. También debo referirme al canje posterior de cartas entre el Dr. Víctor Fernández Manero , Jefe del Departamento de Salubridad de México y el Dr. George C. Dunham , Representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, fechadas ambas el 2 de julio de 1943 , en las que se exponen detalles de carácter administrativo y otros, basados en el canje de notas arriba mencionado, y se llega a un acuerdo sobre ellos .
"Me es ahora grato comunicar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, dependencia de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos , en vista del interés que ha expresado el Gobierno de México para llevar a cabo este programa en la forma más amplia y más efectiva , está ahora dispuesto, con sujeción a la conformidad del Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia con los detalles de esta nota, a contribuir con una cantidad adicional de dinero al programa cooperativo de sanidad e higiene públicas en México , con el objeto de cooperar con la Secretaría de Asistencia Pública y Salubridad para ampliar el programa cooperativo de sanidad e higiene públicas , y atender a la terminación del programa por lo que hace a la participación de mi Gobierno, dentro de un plazo de tiempo predeterminado .
"Además de los Dls . 2.500,000.00 que mi Gobierno indicó estar dispuesto a contribuir a dicho programa , en la nota de esta Embajada N° 1426 del 30 de junio de 1943 , se propone ahora , para la consideración de Vuestro Gobierno , que el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , dependencia de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos , contribuya con una cantidad adicional, que no exceda de Dls . 2.500,000.00 que se expenderá a través de un período de cinco años, a partir del 1 ° de enero de 1944 , y que el Gobierno Mexicano convenga en desplegar sus mejores esfuerzos para contribuir con una cantidad que no exceda de Dls . 2.500,000.00 , que se combinará con los fondos que contribuya el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos, para invertirse durante el mismo período en el programa cooperativo de sanidad e higiene públicas en México .
"Según los términos del convenio a que se llegó mediante el canje de notas de que más arriba se hace mérito , el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos convino en contribuir con la cantidad de Dls. 2.500,000.00 para un programa cooperativo de sanidad e higiene públicas en México , y ahora se propone que dicha cantidad original de Dls . 2.500,000.00 , que el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos previamente conviniera en aportar, sea asignada sobre determinada base anual por medio de un convenio que celebren el Representante en México del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos y el Secretario de Asistencia Pública y Salubridad de México . Dicha cantidad se distribuirá de tal modo , que de los Dls . 2.500,000.00 disponibles originalmente, se asignarían Dls . 700,000.00 para su uso en 19431944 ; Dls . 600,000.00 al año de 1945 ; Dls . 500,000.00 al año de 1946 ; Dls . 400,000.00 al año de 1947 y Dls . 300,000.00 al año de 1948. Como se verá, esto abarca la cantidad que el Instituto de

3981

3982

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
Asuntos Interamericanos convino en aportar en virtud del canje de cartas de fecha 2 de julio de 1943 , entre el Jefe del Departamento de Salubridad de México y el Representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos .
"Para disponer la distribución e inversión de la cantidad adicional, no mayor de Dls . 2.500,000.00, que el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , dependencia de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos , está ahora dispuesto a aportar para los fines arriba expuestos, y de la cantidad igual que el Gobierno Mexicano conviene en desplegar sus mejores esfuerzos para contribuir durante idéntico período , la cantidad , no mayor de Dls . 2.500,000.00, aportada por el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos se asignaría a razón de Dls.
500,000.00 anualmente durante cinco años a partir del 1º de enero de 1944. El Gobierno de México tomará todas las medidas necesarias para tratar de contribuir con una cantidad no mayor de Dls. 2.500,000.00 que se distribuirá a razón de Dls . 300,000.00 en el año de 1944 ; Dls . 400,000.00 por el año de 1945 ; Dls . 500,000.00 por el año de 1946 ; Dls. 600,000.00 por el año de 1947 ; y Dls . 700,000.00 por el año de 1948 .
"Por medio de este convenio la cantidad que se habría de invertir cada año en el programa cooperativo de sanidad e higiene, considerándose como un solo año lo que resta de 1943 y el de 1944, ascendería a Dls. 1,500,000.00 .
"Se propone, para estudio de Vuestra Excelencia, que los términos del convenio original relativo a los detalles, tales como se exponen en el canje de cartas entre el Jefe del Departamento de Salubridad Pública de México y el Representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , de fecha 2 de julio de 1943, sigan en pie y en pleno vigor con respecto a la inversión de cualesquier y de todos los fondos que aporten el Gobierno Mexicano y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos al programa cooperativo de sanidad e higiene, hasta el fin del año de 1948-período durante el cual estará
disponible la cantidad total de Dls. 5.000,000.00 con que contribuye el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos al programa de colaboración.
"Para conocimiento de Vuestra Excelencia, y como complemento al canje de cartas a que se refiere el párrafo anterior, adjunto a la presente copia de una carta de fecha 1º de noviembre, dirigida por el General George C. Dunham, Vicepresidente Ejecutivo del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos , a Su Excelencia el Dr. Gustavo Baz, Secretario de Salubridad y Asistencia, copia de una carta en contestación que dirigió el Dr. Baz al General Dunham, con fecha 6 de noviembre, y otra carta más del General Dunham al Dr. Baz en respuesta a la carta de este último de fecha 6 de diciem-
bre, también fechada el 6 de diciembre. "Es con honda satisfacción que advierto esta nueva fase del
programa cooperativo de sanidad e higiene entre nuestros dos países, y estoy seguro que Vuestra Excelencia considerará este acontecimiento con la misma satisfacción, ya que constituye una prueba adicional del entendimiento y colaboración, constantemente crecientes , entre nuestros dos pueblos."

62 STAT. ] MEXICO-HEALTH AND SANITATION PROGRAM- DEC. 8, 1943

Al manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de México está completamente de acuerdo con los términos de la comunicación preinserta, le ruego hacer presente al de los Estados Unidos de América nuestra sincera apreciación por esta nueva y valiosa prueba de colaboración que tan bien corresponden a las excelentes relaciones que ligan a nuestros dos países.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para renovar a Vuestra Excelencia el testimonio de mi más alta y distinguida consideración .
E. PADILLA Excelentísimo Señor
GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH ,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Presente .

Translation

03104 MR. AMBASSADOR :

MEXICO , D.F. , December 8, 1943.

I am pleased to acknowledge receipt of your very courteous note No. 2098, dated today, in which Your Excellency states the following :

[For English language text of note No. 2098 , as signed , see p . 3978.]

On informing Your Excellency that the Government of Mexico fully agrees to the terms of the communication quoted above, I respectfully request you to express to the Government of the United States of America our sincere appreciation of this new and valuable proof of collaboration which so well corresponds to the excellent relations between our two countries.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

His Excellency GEORGE S. MESSERSMITH,

E. PADILLA

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the United States of America, City.

3983

3984

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

July b2e3ra2n4,d19S4e6ptem[T. I. A. S. 2064]

Agreements and exchanges of letters between the United States of America and Belgium respecting a mutual aid settlement. Signed at Washington September 24 , 1946; entered into force September 24, 1946. And exchange of memorandums signed at Washington July 23 and September 24, 1946; entered into force September 24, 1946.

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE GOV. ERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF BELGIUM REGARDING SETTLEMENT FOR LEND LEASE , RECIPROCAL AID, PLAN A, SURPLUS PROPERTY, AND CLAIMS .

The Government of the United States of America and the Govern-

ment of Belgium have reached an understanding regarding a settlement for lend-lease and reciprocal aid, for the Belgian Government's obligation to the United States Government for civilian supplies furnished under the military relief program (Plan A) , for certain surplus property, and for other financial claims of each Government

56 Stat. 1506.

against the other arising out of the conduct of the war. This settlement is complete and final. In arriving at this understanding, both Governments have recognized the benefits accruing to each from their contributions to the defeat of their common enemies, and have adhered to the principles expressed in Article VII of the preliminary agreement on principles applying to mutual aid in the prosecution of the war against aggression, signed at Washington on June 16, 1942. Both Governments agree that their contributions to each other inthe
common war effort through lend-lease, reciprocal aid and Plan A are substantially in balance. They agree that no further benefits are due or will be sought by either Government from the other on these accounts or, except as hereinafter specifically provided, as consideration for surplus property or the settlement of claims or other obligations arising out of the war.
1. In recognition of the mutual benefits received by the two Governments from the interchange of lend-lease and reciprocal aid, and from the United States share of civilian supplies furnished under the military relief program (Plan A ) , it is agreed that :

Exclusions from payments.

A. Neither Government will make any payment to the other for lend -lease and reciprocal aid articles and services heretofore transferred or retransferred, or remaining to be transferred under pre-

Post, pp. 3994, 3995.

vious agreement. B. The Belgian Government will make no payment to the United
States Government for the United States share of the combined
claim against the Belgian Government for Plan A. As agreed in an exchange of memoranda between the two Governments, dated July 23, 1946, and September 24, 1946 , the Belgian Government

July 23, 1946 62 STAT. ] BELGIUM- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- Sept. 24, 1946

3985

recognizes that the settlement hereby made with the United States Government in no way impairs the obligation of the Belgian Government to the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments for their shares of the combined claim for Plan A, and agrees to establish a reserve of 10 per cent of the combined bills in the Banque Nationale de Belgique which will be made payable to the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments to the extent and in the manner necessary to carry out the existing financial arrangements among the three supplying Governments. Any amounts of the reserve not so paid will not be claimed by the United States Government and will revert to the free disposition of the Belgian Government upon notification by the three supplying Governments.

2. In consideration of the United States surplus property heretofore transferred and heretofore designated for transfer to the Belgian Government under agreed procedures ( estimated at approximately $18,000,000 in transfer value ) , it is agreed that :

A.

( 1 ) As and when requested by the United States Government,

Transfer of property to U.S. Government.

the Belgian Government will transfer to the United States Govern-

ment, or provide Belgian francs for the acquisition of, real property in Belgium, the Belgian Congo and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg

to be mutually agreed upon, and will pay the expense of improvements in and furnishing of property of the United States Govern-

ment in Belgium, the Belgian Congo and Luxembourg, up to an aggregate value of $5,450,000.
(2 ) As and when requested by the United States Government,

the Belgian Government will provide Belgian francs up to an ag-

gregate value of $3,000,000, which will be used exclusively to carry

out cultural and educational programs agreed upon between the Government of the United States of America and the Governments

of Belgium and Luxembourg.

( 3 ) Any francs provided under this sub-paragraph A will be

at the par value between the two currencies established in conformity with procedures of the International Monetary Fund, or, if no such par value exists, at the rate most favorable to the United States

Government used in any official Belgian Government transaction at the time payment is requested. B. (1 ) The Belgian Government will process certain claims against the United States Government, and its war contractors and sub-

Processing of certain claims.

contractors, and discharge their liability with respect thereto, namely :

( a) Claims of individuals, firms and corporations asserted or about to be asserted in courts of Belgium, the Belgian Congo or

Luxembourg against the United States Government, or respecting which the ultimate liability is that of the United States Govern-

ment, arising from maritime incidents occurring on or after Septem-

ber 3, 1939 and prior to July 1 , 1946. In addition , as part of the general settlement, the Belgian Government, without giving rise

to any financial obligation on the part of the United States Govern-

3986

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

ment, will, at the request of the United States Government, take such steps as may be necessary, including the assumption of financial responsibility, to release vessels and cargoes belonging to the United States Government from legal actions brought in such courts to enforce any such claims.
(b) Claims of individuals, firms and corporations domiciled or resident in Belgium, the Belgian Congo or Luxembourg (except individuals who are exclusively United States nationals ) against the United States Government, its contractors and subcontractors, for royalties under license contracts for the use of inventions, patented or unpatented, or for infringement of patent rights, in connection with war production carried on or contracted for prior to September 2, 1945.

(c) Claims of individuals , firms and corporations domiciled or resident in Belgium, the Belgian Congo or Luxembourg against the United States Government arising out of acts or omissions in Belgium, the Belgian Congo or Luxembourg of members of the United States Armed Forces or civilian personnel attached to such forces, both line-of-duty and non-line-of-duty, occurring on or after September 3, 1939 and prior to September 2, 1945 in the case of contracts, and occurring on or after September 3, 1939 and prior to July 1, 1946 in the case of other acts and omissions.

(d) Claims of subjects of Belgium or Luxembourg, whether individuals, firms or corporations, against the United States Government arising out of the requisitioning for use in the war program of property located in the United States in which the claimant had an interest.

Dollar obligation of Belgian Government
to U.S.

(2) The undertaking of the Belgian Government in the preceding sub-paragraph ( 1 ) is valued at $5,000,000 , not subject to adjustment. C. ( 1 ) The undertakings of the Belgian Government in sub-paragraphs A and B above constitute a payment by the Belgian Government to the United States Government of $13,450,000 toward the total purchase price of the above-mentioned United States surplus property. The excess over $13,450,000 of the total purchase price (determined in accordance with usual procedures) of the surplus property heretofore transferred to the Belgian Government and hereafter transferred under designations heretofore made will be a dollar obligation of the Belgian Government to the United States Government.

(2) In the event that the United States Government should not

be able to avail itself fully of the provisions of sub-paragraph A,

the amount not availed of will, upon appropriate notification by

the United States Government, be added to the dollar obligation of the Belgian Government to the United States Government.

(3) These dollar obligations of the Belgian Government will be

governed by the provisions of paragraph 5 below.

Line of credit to Belgian Government .

3. The United States Government hereby makes available to the

Belgian Government a line of credit of $10,000,000 for the purchase of

62 STAT. ] BELGIUM- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- July 23, 1946 Sept. 24, 1946

3987

United States surplus property contracted for with the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner before October 1, 1946, other than the surplus

property referred to in paragraph 2 above. The resulting dollar

obligation will be governed by the provision of paragraph 5 below. 4. The two Governments have agreed on the acquisition by the
Belgian Government of certain United States surplus property remaining in Belgium on or after October 1 , 1946, and, in stated circumstances, before September 30, 1946, on the basis of a division between

the two Governments of the proceeds of sales. The share accruing to the United States Government of these proceeds will be a dollar ob-

ligation of the Belgian Government and will be governed by the pro-
visions of paragraph 5 below. Annual installments
5. A. Payment of the total of the dollar obligations of the Belgian of dollar obligation. Government to the United States Government referred to in para-

graphs 2C, 3, and 4 above shall be made in annual instalments over a period ending July 1, 1976. The first annual instalment shall be due

and payable on July 1, 1947, and shall be equal to one-thirtieth of the total dollar obligation as of that date. Each subsequent instalment

shall be equal to the total unpaid balance as of the date of the instalment divided by the number of instalments remaining to be paid.
B. Interest on the unpaid balance of the total dollar obligation

Interest.

shall be paid by the Belgian Government at the fixed rate of two and

three-eights per cent per annum, accruing from July 1, 1947, except that, with respect to dollar obligations arising after July 1 , 1947, interest shall accrue from the first day of July next following the date

on which the obligation arises. Interest shall be payable annually, the first payment to be made on July 1, 1948.

C. The Belgian Government may at any time or times anticipate the payment of any instalments or any part thereof. Such payments will be credited first to past due interest, if any, and then to the unpaid instalments in inverse order of maturity, and the number of instal-

ments remaining to be paid will thereby be reduced by the number of instalments thus paid in full.
D. In the event that the United States Government wishes to

receive Belgian francs for the payment of any or all expenditures to be made after December 31, 1946 by the United States Government, including its agencies, in Belgium , the Belgian Congo, or Luxembourg, the United States Government may request Belgian francs in specified

amounts at any time or times after December 31, 1946 and the Belgian Government agrees to furnish Belgian francs in such amounts at such time or times, subject to the limitations that ( 1) the aggregate of the

dollar equivalents of such amounts ( computed at the par value or rate specified in paragraph 2A ( 3) ) shall not exceed $5,000,000 and ( 2) the aggregate of the dollar equivalents of any such amounts (computed as so specified ) requested in the twelve- month period beginning any first day of July, added to the amount of the annual instalment and inter-

Ante, p. 3985.

est, if any, payable in such period under sub-paragraphs A and B above and any payments already made by the Belgian Government in such period under sub-paragraph C above, shall not exceed $2,000,000
68706-52-PT. III- 87

3988

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

and (3) the dollar equivalent of any single amount (computed as so

specified ) shall not exceed the unpaid balance of the total dollar obli-

gation at the time payment of such amount is requested, plus interest

then past due, if any. In the event that Belgian francs are so re-

ceived, the United States dollar equivalent thereof (computed as so

specified ) will be credited first to past due interest, if any, and then to

U.S. troop pay.

the unpaid balance of the total dollar obligation. 6. The two Governments have agreed upon arrangements and pro-

cedures for the settlement of past and future troop pay of United

States Armed Forces in Belgium. The United States Government

will continue to expedite payment under agreed procedures for sup-

plies and services furnished by the Belgian Government to United

Settlement of claims.

States Government agencies on and after September 2, 1945. 7. A. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, claims in
the following categories will be settled in accordance with procedures

already established or to be established after appropriate discussions :

(1) Claims by the United States Government for the cost, and claims by the Belgian Government for the excess of amounts deposited by it with the United States Government over the cost, of supplies and services procured under cash reimbursement lend-lease requisitions filed by the Belgian Government.
(2) Claims arising out of lend-lease requisitions for locomotives wherein the Belgian Government agreed to pay landed cost.
(3) Claims by the Belgian Government for the excess of amounts deposited by it with the United States Government under the exchange of notes between the Foreign Economic Administration and the Belgian Ambassador on October 20 and October 25, 1944 [1] over the cost of supplies and services procured thereunder and transferred to the Belgian Government on or before February 28, 1945 .

B. Each Government waives all its claims against the other, and

all its claims respecting which the ultimate liability is that of the

other, which arose out of (1 ) maritime incidents occurring prior to

July 1 , 1946, or (2) requisitioning for use in the war program of property of the other Government.

C. All other financial claims of either Government against the

other, except those arising out of established arrangements where

liability has heretofore been acknowledged and the method of com-

putation agreed, which (1 ) arose out of lend-lease or reciprocal aid,

or ( 2) otherwise arose out of incidents connected with the conduct of

the war occurring on or after September 3, 1939 and prior to September 2, 1945, and which are not otherwise dealt with in this Memoran-

Obligation of Belgian Government respecting silver.

dum , are hereby waived . 8. Nothing in this Memorandum affects the obligation of the Bel-
gian Government in connection with silver transferred to it by the

Right of recapture of supplies.

United States Government under lend -lease. 9. Each Government reserves the right of recapture of any supplies
of types essentially or exclusively for use in war or warlike exercises

¹ Not printed.

July 23, 1946 62 STAT. ] BELGIUM- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT Sept. 24, 1946

3989

held by the other Government, which were supplied on lend- lease or reverse lend-lease, but each Government has indicated that it does not

intend to exercise generally its right of recapture of such supplies.

Each Government agrees that all such supplies held by it will be used

only for purposes compatible with the principles of international security and welfare set forth in the Charter of the United Nations.

59 Stat. 1031.

Merchant vessels which were made available to the Belgium Government under lend-lease are to be returned to the United States

Government. 10. Disposals to third Governments of lend-lease and reverse lend-
lease supplies of types essentially or exclusively for use in war or

Disposal of lend-
lease supplies, restriction.

warlike exercises will be made only with the consent of the supplying

Government. All other materials supplied on lend-lease or reverse

lend-lease may be disposed of without restriction by the recipient

Government, and no further payment therefor will be required by the supplying Government.
11. Except as provided under paragraphs 9 and 10 of this Memorandum of Understanding, the Belgian Government and the United States Government receive full title to lend-lease and reverse lend-

Title to lend-lease articles.

lease articles respectively held as of September 2 , 1945 , or transferred at any time thereafter, and not subsequently returned .
12. To the extent that the provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding are inconsistent with those contained in any previous agree-

Status of inconsistent provisions.

ment, the provisions of this Memorandum shall prevail. 13. The two Governments agree to conclude such specific agreements
as may be necessary to implement this general understanding. 14. This Memorandum of Understanding will be effective upon
signature.

Effective date.

Done at Washington , in duplicate , this 24th day of September, 1946.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :

W. L. CLAYTON Acting Secretary of State of the United States of America
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF BELGIUM : SILVERCRUYS
Ambassador of Belgium at Washington

3990

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

AGREEMENT RELATING TO THE TRANSFER OF UNITED STATES SURPLUS PROPERTY IN BELGIUM

Ante, p. 3987.

As stated in paragraph 4 of the Memorandum of Understanding regarding settlement for lend-lease, reciprocal aid, Plan A, surplus property, and claims, dated September 24, 1946, and as part of the

general settlement set forth in the Memorandum of Understanding, the Government of the United States of America and the Government

of Belgium have reached agreement for the transfer to the Belgian

Government of certain property which is or may be declared surplus to the needs of the United States Government. This agreement has

been reached as a means of implementing and continuing mutual assistance in the solution of the common problem of the liquidation of

residual United States surplus stocks in Belgium. It is the intention

of the two Governments that the plan herein set forth for the liquida-

tion of these stocks shall operate to their mutual benefit, and without an inequitable burden on either Government.

Title to U.S. property in Belgium.

1. The two Governments agree that, except as set forth in para-

graph 2 below, title to all United States Government property in Bel-

gium, declared surplus to the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner, United States Department of State, and all United States

Government scrap and salvage in Belgium, shall pass to the Belgian Government at the following times for the property indicated :

(a) On October 1, 1946 : all such property declared surplus or becoming scrap or salvage prior to that date.
(b) On the date of declaration as surplus or the date on which it becomes scrap or salvage : any such property declared surplus or becoming scrap or salvage on or after October 1, 1946.
(c) Prior to October 1 , 1946, on the date or dates of notice of passage of title given by the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner to the Belgian Government : any such property specified in any such notice.

Exceptions.

2. Specifically excepted from the property, title to which is to pass under this agreement, are the following :

(a) Ammunition and other non-demilitarized combat materiel. (b) Railway rolling stock ( including locomotives) and spare parts therefor.
(c) Special technical facilities of the Air Navigation, Communication and Weather- Control Units. The disposal of these facilities is reserved for separate treatment.
(d) Property located in Belgium which on October 1, 1946 has been sold or is under contract or commitment for sale by the United States Government (1) to any purchasers other than the Belgian Government or (2 ) to the Belgian Government under arrangements other than this agreement. Property shall be considered under contract or commitment for the purposes of this paragraph if, prior to 2400 hours, Paris time, September 30, 1946, the Central Field Commissioner, Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner, in Paris, in the case of surplus property, or such United States Government

62 STAT. ] BELGIUM- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- July 23, 1946 Sept. 24, 1946

3991

authority as has jurisdiction thereof, in the case of scrap and salvage, has received an offer therefor under a formal invitation to bid (which is accepted not later than October 10, 1946 ) or has arrived at a written or oral understanding which the Central Field Commissioner or such other authority regards as firm. 3. (a ) All obligations (including, but not limited to, expenses, giaObnliGgoavteironnsmeonft.Belclaims, rents, and requisitions , but specifically excluding the obligations set forth in sub-paragraph (b) below) , incident to the care, custody, and liquidation of United States Government property in Belgium, except property transferred to the Belgian Government under arrangements other than this agreement and except the property specified in sub-paragraphs 2 ( a ) , 2 ( b ) , and 2 ( c ) above, will, to the following extent , be borne by the Belgian Government :

( 1) From the date at which title passes hereunder in the case of

any property transferred to the Belgian Government pursuant to this agreement before October 1, 1946.

(2) From October 1 , 1946 , in the case of all other property which

prior to or on that date or at any time thereafter is declared surplus to the Office of the Foreign Liquidation Commissioner, Department

of State, or becomes scrap or salvage, except that in the case of

property declared surplus or becoming scrap or salvage after December 10, 1946 the obligation of the Belgian Government shall at-

tach only from the date on which such property is declared surplus or becomes scrap or salvage.

(b) The following will not be obligations of the Belgian Government but will continue to be obligations of the United States Government :

Obligations of U.S. Government.

(1) Expenses of pay, maintenance and administration of United States military and civilian personnel and of prisoners of war held by the United States.
(2) Tort claims asserted against the United States Government arising in connection with the care, custody and liquidation of property of which the Belgian Government has not taken possession hereunder at the time the claim arises.

4. The Belgian Government agrees to take possession of the property transferred to it under paragraph 1 of this agreement as promptly as possible after transfer of title, and of such other United States

Prompt possession of transferred proper-
ty.

surplus property and scrap and salvage in Belgium as may be mu-

tually agreed upon, in accordance, in both cases, with procedures to

be agreed upon between representatives of the two Governments. 5. The Belgian Government agrees to sell the property transferred
to it under this agreement expeditiously and at the best possible

Sale of transferred property.

monetary return, with due regard for the necessities of the Belgian

economy, and, in case of a contemplated bulk sale, to obtain the prior consent of the United States Government.
6. (a) The gross proceeds of sales of the property transferred hereunder will be shared equally by the two Governments. Gross

Gross proceeds.

proceeds, for the purposes of this agreement, are defined as the total

3992

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

amount reported by the Belgian Government as received from purchasers, not including customs duties and transfer taxes insofar as

such duties and taxes are shown separately as additions to the sales

price on sales documents. The fair value of property transferred to

Quarterly reports.

the Belgian Government hereunder and retained by the Belgian Government for its own use will be considered part of the gross proceeds.
(b) The Belgian Government agrees to report to the United

States Government quarterly, beginning March 31 , 1947, the amount in Belgian francs of the gross proceeds of sales of the property trans-

ferred to it under this agreement. The share of such proceeds ac-

cruing to the United States will, on the several dates of such reports, become a dollar obligation of the Belgian Government to the United States Government. The dollar amount of the obligation will be com-

puted at the par value between the two currencies established in con-

formity with procedures of the International Monetary Fund, or, if no such par value exists, at the rate most favorable to the United

States Government used in any official Belgian Government trans-

action at the time payment is requested . The dollar obligations of

Ante. p . 3987.

the Belgian Government under this agreement will be governed by the provisions of paragraph 5 of the Memorandum of Understanding

Determination of financial interest of U.S.
in unsold property.

of September 24, 1946 , between the two Governments. 7. The two Governments recognize that a time will be reached after
which continued disposal by the Belgian Government of the property

transferred hereunder on the basis of equal sharing of the gross pro-

ceeds may impose an inequitable burden on the Belgian Government.

When, in the opinion of the Belgian Government, this time has been

reached or is in view, it will so report to the United States Govern-

ment with supporting data. Promptly thereafter, or promptly after

September 30, 1948 if no such report has been submitted, the two

Governments will agree on the basis for a final determination of the

financial interest of the United States Government in the unsold

property transferred hereunder.

Nonimportation of property into U.S.

8. The Belgian Government will use its best endeavors to insure

that property transferred pursuant to this agreement shall not be

imported into the United States in the same or substantially the same

form , unless such property is to be imported into the United States

on consignment to a person or firm in the United States for the purpose

of reconditioning for re-export, or by a member or veteran of the

United States Armed Forces for his personal use, or unless such im-

Nondiscrimination in distribution of
property .

portation is otherwise authorized. 9. The Belgian Government, when it disposes of or distributes
property pursuant to this agreement, will use its best endeavors to

avoid discrimination against the legitimate interests of the United

States manufacturers of such property, or their agents or distributors. Members and veterans of the United States Armed Forces, United

States Government Agencies, United States citizens and non-profit institutions, and UNRRA and the International Red Cross will be ac-

corded an opportunity to buy the property transferred under this agreement on the same basis and at the same priority as accorded to other buyers of like character.

July 23, 1946 62 STAT. ] BELGIUM- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- Sept. 24, 1946
10. Because of the importance of maritime property to the economic rehabilitation of Europe the two Governments agree on the desirability of their exchanging views regarding any proposed sale by the Belgian Government of maritime property transferred hereunder. Accordingly, prior to any such sale, the Belgian Government will consult with the United States Government, and will give due consideration to its views as to the relative needs of the various claimant countries and as to a fair and equitable pricing policy for any such property.
Done at Washington , in duplicate, this 24th day of September, 1946.

3993 Maritime property.

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA :

DONALD H CONNOLLY Foreign Liquidation Commissioner of the United States of America
FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF BELGIUM : SILVERCRUYS
Ambassador of Belgium at Washington

3994

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
The Department of State to the Belgian Embassy
MEMORANDUM
In identic notes to the Government of Belgium dated June 19, 1946, [ 1 ] the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada set forth the respective share of each Government in the combined claim for the civilian supplies furnished by the Allied armies for the population of Belgium, and indicated that each Government would communicate further with your Government concerning the method of settlement for its share.
Discussions have since been held between representatives of your Government and of the United States Government with regard to the final settlement of war accounts, and consideration has been given to the method of settlement for the United States share of the combined claim for civilian supplies furnished the Government of Belgium and the Government of Luxembourg. As a result of these discussions, the United States Government has decided that the most satisfactory method of accomplishing settlement for its shares of the combined claims against the Government of Belgium and the Government of Luxembourg for civilian supplies would be to regard them as a part of the United States contribution to the common war effort and subject to the concurrence of the Government of Luxembourg to include these
shares in the over-all settlement of war accounts between the United States and Belgian Governments.
Since the Government of the United States is committed by written agreements to participate on a combined basis with the United King dom and Canadian Governments in the collection of the total bill for these supplies and in the determination of the relative shares of each in the proceeds , it is necessary for this Government to stipulate that this method of settlement for the United States shares of the combined bills is conditional upon the fulfillment of the following conditions :
a) That the Belgian Government recognize that the settlement to be made with the United States Government in no way impairs the validity of the obligation of the Belgian Government to the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments for their shares of the combined bills.
b) That the Belgian Government establish a reserve of 10 percent of the combined bills being presented to the Government of Belgium and to the Government of Luxembourg. This reserve is to be established forthwith for bills heretofore submitted and at the time of submission for bills hereafter submitted. It is tobe deducted from the United States share, and is to be held in the name of the Belgian Government in the Banque Nationale de Belgique in funds convertible into sterling or Canadian dollars, or both, at rates to be agreed upon by the Government of Belgium with the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments. The reserve will be payable to the United Kingdom and Canadian
1Not printed.

July 23, 1946 62 STAT. ] BELGIUM-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- Sept. 24, 1946
Governments to the extent and in such proportions of sterling and Canadian dollars as the United States, United Kingdom , and Canadian Governments may determine by combined agreement to be necessary in order to comply with the existing financial arrangements among the three supplying governments. Any amounts of the reserve not so paid will not be claimed by the United States Government and will revert to the free disposition of the Belgian Government upon combined notification by the United States, United Kingdom , and Canadian Governments.
WLC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, July 23, 1946

The Belgian Embassy to the Department of State AMBASSADE DE BELGIQUE D.1074 No. 8123
MEMORANDUM
Reference is made to the Memorandum from the Government of the United States to the Government of Belgium dated July 23, 1946 . The provisions of this Memorandum are accepted by the Government of Belgium.
S

WASHINGTON, September 24th , 1946.

DS

SA S

DE

A

QUE BELGI

WASHINGTON

3995

The Acting Secretary of State to the Belgian Ambassador

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON
September 24, 1946 MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR :
Representatives of your Government and of this Government have discussed several questions of interpretation with respect to the language of the Memorandum of Understanding between our two Governments to be signed today. I am writing to state the understanding of this Government with respect to these questions.
1. The "United States surplus property heretofore transferred and heretofore designated for transfer to the Belgian Government under agreed procedures", referred to in the opening sentence of paragraph
68706-52- PT. III- 88

Ante, p. 3984.

3996

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Ante, p. 3985.

2 of the Memorandum of Understanding, is the property which originally was transferred or designated for transfer to the Govern-

ment of Belgium as defense articles of civilian utility no longer re-

quired by the United States Army for its own uses, under the letter of October 19 , 1945 [1] from the Secretary of State of the United States

to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belgium.

2. The term "maritime incidents", as used in paragraphs 2B (1) Ante, pp. 3985, 3988. ( a ) and 7B of the Memorandum of Understanding, includes damages

to shore structures, aids to navigation, and port installations, fixed or

moveable, arising out of marine operations. I should appreciate it if you would advise me whether the foregoing
is in accordance with the understanding of your Government. Sincerely yours, W. L. CLAYTON

His Excellency Baron ROBERT SILVERCRUYS,

Acting Secretary of State

Ambassador of Belgium.

Ante, p. 3984.

The Belgian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

AMBASSADE DE BELGIQUE

D.1121 No. 8122

WASHINGTON, September 24th, 1946

MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY :

I have your letter of today's date setting forth your Government's understanding with respect to certain questions of interpretation relating to the language of the Memorandum of Understanding between our two Governments to be signed today.
I am happy to advise you that the understanding of the Government of Belgium on these matters coincides with the understanding of your Government.
Sincerely yours, The Belgian Ambassador SILVERCRUYS
The Honorable WILLIAM L. CLAYTON, Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

Ante, p. 3985.

The Acting Secretary of State to the Belgian Ambassador
DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON
September 24, 1946 MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR :
With reference to paragraph 2A ( 1 ) of the Memorandum of Understanding between our two Governments to be signed today, it is the
1'Not printed.

62 STAT. ] BELGIUM-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT July 23, Sept. 24,11994466

3997

understanding of my Government that the obligation of your Government, set forth in that paragraph, to transfer real property, or provide Belgian francs for the acquisition of real property, and pay the expense of improvements in and furnishing of property, in Belgium, the Belgian Congo, and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, up to an aggregate value of $5,450,000 is subject to the limitation that the obligation of your Government shall not exceed $5,000,000 with respect to Belgium nor $200,000 with respect to the Belgian Congo nor $250,000 with respect to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. It is further the understanding of my Government that paragraph 2C ( 2) of the Memorandum of Understanding is applicable to the provisions of paragraph 2A ( 1 ) as limited by the above understanding.
I should appreciate it if you would inform me whether the foregoing is in accordance with the understanding of your Government.
Sincerely yours, W. L. CLAYTON
Acting Secretary of State

Ante, p. 3986.

His Excellency Baron ROBERT SILVERCRUYS, Ambassador of Belgium.

The Belgian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

AMBASSADE DE BELGIQUE D.1121 No. 8142

WASHINGTON, September 24th, 1946

MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY : In reply to your letter of today's date regarding the obligation of
my Government under paragraph 2A ( 1 ) of the Memorandum of Understanding between our two Governments to be signed today, I am happy to advise you that the understanding of my Government on the matters mentioned in your letter coincides with the understanding of your Government as set forth in your letter.
Sincerely yours, The Belgian Ambassador SILVERCRUYS

Ante, p. 3985.

The Honorable WILLIAM L. CLAYTON, Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

3998

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERN. MENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF BELGIUM REGARDING THE PURCHASE OF BELGIAN FRANCS FOR USE BY THE UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES

Purchase rate.

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of Belgium have agreed upon the following provisions, which shall supersede those provisions of any prior agreements which are inconsistent therewith :
1 (a) All Belgian francs drawn from the Government of Belgium by the United States Armed Forces minus Belgian francs returned to the Government of Belgium and minus Belgian francs paid out for local procurement eligible for reciprocal aid will be purchased at the rate of 43.77325 francs to the dollar.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph 1 (c) below, all Belgian francs required by the United States Armed Forces for use in Bel-

gium and Luxembourg, in addition to those purchased as provided

in paragraph 1 ( a ) above, will be purchased against payment of their counter-value in United States dollars from the Banque Nationale de

Belgique, which shall make such francs available.

Acceptance of Belgian francs,restriction.

(c ) The United States Armed Forces may accept Belgian francs

from, and shall accept Belgian francs from none other than, members

of the United States Armed Forces, and quasi- official organizations,

agencies and personnel in and under the military establishment. The

United States Armed Forces shall take all practical measures to avoid

the acquisition of Belgian francs derived from non-official channels. Use of Belgian francs. 2. Belgian francs acquired by the United States Armed Forces may

be used only for : ( a ) exchange of funds, and encashment of dollar instruments authorized by the United States Armed Forces, of troops

Effective date.

and personnel in and under the military establishment, and (b) procurement of goods and services.
3. This Memorandum of Agreement will be effective upon signature.

Signed at Washington, in duplicate, this 24th day of September, 1946 .

FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA W. L. CLAYTON
Acting Secretary of State JOSEPH J. O'CONNELL Jr
Acting Secretary of the Treasury GEORGE J RICHARDS,
Budget Officer for the War Department FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF BELGIUM
SILVERCRUYS Ambassador of Belgium at Washington

62 STAT. ] BELGIUM-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- July 23, 1946 Sept. 24, 1946

The Belgian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

AMBASSADE DE BELGIQUE

D.1121 No. 8110

WASHINGTON, September 24th, 1946

MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY :
It is the understanding of my Government that 128 million Belgian francs which the United States Army disbursed for open market procurement in Belgium prior to V-J Day and which it was agreed between our two Governments were disbursed for supplies and services eligible as reciprocal aid, will be deducted from the franc drawings for which the United States War Department will make dollar payment in accordance with the terms of the Memorandum of Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Belgium regarding the purchase of Belgian francs for use by the United States Armed Forces. Accordingly, my Government has agreed that it will not present for payment by the United States Army vouchers for supplies and services furnished to the United States Army prior to September 2, 1945.
This letter will confirm to you the understanding of my Government that this claim has been treated as part of the Belgian reverse lend -lease accounts and accounted for as such rather than as a claim for goods and services for which the United States Army will make payment.
Yours sincerely, The Belgian Ambassador SILVERCRUYS

3999 Ante, p. 3998.

The Honorable WILLIAM L. CLAYTON, Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

The Belgian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of the Treasury

AMBASSADE DE BELGIQUE D.1056 No. 8112

WASHINGTON, September 24th, 1946

MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY : Reference is made to the Memorandum of Agreement between the
Government of the United States of America and the Government of Belgium regarding the purchase of Belgian francs for use by the United States Armed Forces, executed in Washington on September 24th, 1946.
I have been instructed by my Government to advise you that Belgian francs acquired by finance officers of the United States Armed Forces in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of the agreement referred to above, may be turned over by finance officers of the United States Armed Forces to the Belgian authorities at any time, and such

Ante, p. 3998.

4000 Ante, p. 3998.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
francs will be purchased by the Government of Belgium against dollars at the rate at which they were acquired by such finance officers.
Yours sincerely, The Belgian Ambassador SILVERCRUYS
The Honorable JOSEPH J. O'CONNELL, Acting Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. C.

The Acting Secretary of the Treasury to the Belgian Ambassador

THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY WASHINGTON SEPTEMBER 24, 1946
MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR :

Reference is made to your letter to me of September 24, 1946, regarding the repurchase of Belgian francs acquired by finance officers of the United States Armed Forces in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of the Memorandum of Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Belgium

regarding the Purchase of Belgian Francs for Use by the United States Armed Forces, executed in Washington on September 24, 1946.
It is the understanding of the United States Government that in

the event of a devaluation of the Belgian franc, the two Governments will cooperate to effect the necessary adjustments expeditiously. In order to prepare for such an eventuality it will be the policy of the United States Government to provide to the Belgian Government relevant information regarding the Belgian franc disbursements and holdings of the military establishment in Belgium. It is the intention of the United States Armed Forces to advise you quarterly through

a United States Treasury representative of the amount of francs disbursed for the procurement of goods and services and of the amount of francs reported as in the accounts of Army finance officers.
It is our understanding that the obligation of the Belgian Government to repurchase, at the rate of purchase, Belgian francs tendered by the United States Armed Forces shall be limited to the Belgian francs in official United States Armed Forces accounts, and francs

held by quasi -official organizations in and under the military establishment.

I am pleased to advise you that under new procedures established by the United States Armed Forces in the European Theater of Oper ations on the 16th of September, 1946 the United States Armed Forces

are no longer accepting Belgian francs from authorized personnel for their accommodation, except in exceptional cases resulting from the change in procedures and orders.

Very truly yours ,

JOSEPH J O'CONNELL Jr

Acting Secretary of the Treasury His Excellency
THE AMBASSADOR OF BELGIUM Washington, D. C.

62 STAT.] BELGIUM- MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT- July 23, 1946 Sept. 24, 1946
The Acting Secretary of State to the Belgian Ambassador

4001

DEPARTMENT OF STATE WASHINGTON
September 24, 1946

MY DEAR MR. AMBASSADOR : In the Memorandum of Interpretation, dated April 17, 1945 ,
with respect to the agreement between the United States of America and Belgium under Section 3 ( c) of the Lend-Lease Act my Government gave its consent to the retransfer by the Government of

59 Stat. 1647.
55 Stat. 32. 22 U.S. C. § 412 (c).

Belgium to the Government of Luxembourg of articles to be delivered

by my Government to the Government of Belgium under the agree-

ment referred to. By a letter of the same date from the Secretary

of State to the Belgian Ambassador my Government pointed out that

if it should not be able to conclude arrangements with the Grand

Duchy of Luxembourg required by the Lend-Lease Act my Govern-

ment's consent to future retransfers of such articles by the Government

of Belgium to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg would have to be qualified or revoked.

I now take pleasure in advising you that in consequence of the signing today of the Memorandum of Understanding between our two Governments no requirement of the Lend -Lease Act remains unsatisfied with respect to retransfers of such articles by the Government

Ante. p. 3984.
55 Stat. 31. 22 U. S. C. §§ 411419; Supp. I, § 415 (b) .

of Belgium to the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and there will accordingly be no occasion for this Government to qualify or revoke its above-mentioned consent to such retransfers.

You will understand, of course, that any contemplated retransfers

by the Government of Belgium to the Government of the Grand

Duchy of Luxembourg of lend -lease supplies of types essentially or

exclusively for use in war or warlike exercises will be subject to the provisions of paragraph 10 of the Memorandum of Understanding

Ante, p. 3989.

and will therefore be made only with the consent of my Government.

Sincerely yours,

W. L. CLAYTON

Acting Secretary of State

His Excellency Baron ROBERT SILVERCRUYS, Ambassador of Belgium.

The Belgian Ambassador to the Acting Secretary of State

AMBASSADE DE BELGIQUE D.1064 No. 8111

WASHINGTON, September 24th, 1946.

MY DEAR MR. SECRETARY : I have your letter of today's date with reference to retransfers by
my Government to the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of articles delivered to my Government by the Government of

4002

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

59 Stat. 1642. 55 Stat. 32.
22 U.S. C. § 412 (c).

the United States of America under the Agreement dated April 17, 1945 between our two Governments under Section 3 (c) of the LendLease Act.

Ante, p. 3984. Ante, p. 3989.

I take pleasure in noting your assurance that in consequence of the signing today of the Memorandum of Understanding between our two Governments there will be no occasion for your Government to qualify or revoke its previously given consent to such retransfers.
My Government shares your understanding that any contemplated retransfers by it to the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of lend-lease supplies of types essentially or exclusively for use in war or warlike exercises will be subject to the provisions of paragraph 10 of the Memorandum of Understanding and will therefore be made only with the consent of your Government.
Sincerely yours, The Belgian Ambassador SILVERCRUYS

The Honorable WILLIAM L. CLAYTON, Acting Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.

1

62 STAT. ] LUXEMBOURG-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT-AUG. 29, 1946

4003

Agreement between the United States of America and Luxembourg respecting a mutual aid settlement . Effected by exchange of memorandums signed at Luxembourg August 29, 1946; entered into force August 29, 1946.

August 29, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 2065]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Luxembourg Minister of State and Minister of Finance

EXCELLENCY :

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Luxembourg, August 29, 1946

I have the honor in accordance with instructions of my Government to refer to conversations between representatives of the Grand Ducal Government of Luxembourg and the Government of the United States with regard to the settlement of the respective shares of the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada in the combined claim for the civilian supplies furnished by the Allied armies for the population of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and to transmit to Your Excellency in connection therewith a memorandum setting forth the agreement of the Luxembourg Government to settlements with the United States Government.

If the provisions of the memorandum now enclosed are acceptable to the Government of Luxembourg a reply from the Government of Luxembourg expressing its concurrence will be appreciated by my Government.

I avail myself of this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the

assurance of my highest consideration.

GEORGE WALLER

Enclosure :

Memorandum.

His Excellency MONSIEUR PIERRE DUPONG, President of the Government, Minister of Finance, etc. , etc. , etc., Luxembourg.
[ Enclosure ]

Memorandum Presented to the Government of Luxembourg by the American Legation

In identic notes to your Government dated June 19, 1946 , [ ¹] the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada set forth the respective share of each Government in the combined
' Not printed.

4004

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

claim for the civilian supplies furnished by the Allied armies for the

population of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and indicated that

Method of settlement.

each Government would communicate further with your Government concerning the method of settlement for its share.
Discussions have since been held between the representatives of the

Government of Belgium and of the United States Government with

regard to the final settlement of war accounts. In this connection, representatives of the United States Government and the Government

of Belgium have discussed with representatives of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg the method of settlement for the United States share of the combined claim for civilian supplies (Plan A) furnished tothe Government of Luxembourg. As a result of these discussions, it has been decided that, subject to the concurrence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the most satisfactory method of accomplishing settlement for the United States share of Plan A supplies furnished the

Government of Luxembourg would be to include this share (and to require no payment therefor from the Belgian Government) in the over-all settlement between the United States Government and the

Belgian Government of lend -lease, reciprocal aid, and other war accounts, in which the Belgian Government and the Grand Duchy have been continually associated.
Since the Government of the United States is committed by written agreements to participate on a combined basis with the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments in the collection of the total bill for

these supplies and in the determination of the relative shares of each in the proceeds, it is necessary for this Government to stipulate that this method of settlement for the United States share of the combined

Conditions.

bills for the civilian supplies furnished the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is conditional upon the fulfillment of the following conditions :

a) That the Luxembourg Government recognize that the settlement to be made with the United States Government in no way impairs
the validity of the obligation of the Luxembourg Government to the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments for their shares of the combined bills.

b) That the Belgian Government establish a reserve of 10 percent of the combined bills being presented to the Luxembourg Government and the Belgian Government. This reserve is to be established forthwith for bills heretofore submitted and at the time of submission for bills hereafter submitted. This reserve is to be deducted from the United States share, and is to be held in the name of the Belgian Government in the Banque Nationale de Belgique in funds convertible into sterling or Canadian dollars, or both, at rates to be agreed upon by the Government of Belgium with the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments. The reserve will be payable to the United Kingdom and Canadian Governments to the extent and in such proportions of sterling and Canadian dollars as the United States, United Kingdom, and Canadian Governments may determine by combined

62 STAT. ] LUXEMBOURG-MUTUAL AID SETTLEMENT AUG. 29, 1946

agreement to be necessary in order to comply with the existing financial arrangements among the three supplying governments. Any amounts of the reserve not so paid will not be claimed by the United States Government, and will revert to the free disposition of the Belgian Government upon combined notification by the United States, United Kingdom, and Canadian Governments.

If the provisions of this memorandum are acceptable to the Govern-

ment of Luxembourg, it will be appreciated if the Government of the

United States might have a reply from the Government of Luxem-

bourg expressing its concurrence. LUXEMBOURG

GEORGE WALLER

August 29, 1946

4005

The Luxembourg Minister of State and Minister of Finance to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

MEMORANDUM

Reference is made to the memorandum from the Government of the

United States to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg dated August 29 , 1946. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg accepts the Provisions in the reference memorandum .
P. DUPONG

LUXEMBOURG

Minister of State and Minister of Finance

August 29, 1946

Ante, p. 4003. Acceptance.

4006

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

September 12, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 2067]

Memorandum of understanding between the United States of America and Luxembourg respecting waiver of certain claims arising out ofthe conduct of the war. Signed at Luxembourg September 12 , 1946; entered into force September 12, 1946.

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE GOV. ERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG REGARDING CLAIMS BETWEEN THE TWO GOVERNMENTS ARISING OUT OF THE CONDUCT OF THE WAR

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg have agreed as follows:
1. The obligation of the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to the Government of the United States of America for the United States share of the combined claim for civilian supplies furnished by the Allied armies to the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (Plan A) is the subject of a separate arrangement. 2. All other financial claims between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg which arose out of incidents connected with the conduct of the war occurring between September 3, 1939 and September 2 , 1945 , except claims arising out of existing arrangements where the liability for payment has heretofore been acknowledged and the method of computation agreed, are hereby waived, and neither government will hereafter raise or pursue any such claims against the other .

Signed at Luxembourg, in duplicate, this 12th day of September 1946.

For the Government of the United States of America

[SEAL ]

GEORGE PLATT WALLER George Platt Waller

For the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg [SEAL] PIERRE DUPONG. Pierre Dupong

62 STAT. ]

LUXEMBOURG-WAR CLAIMS-SEPT. 12, 1946

ACCORD ENTRE LE GOUVERNEMENT DES ETATS -UNIS D'AMERIQUE ET LE GOUVERNEMENT DU GRAND -DUCHE DE LUXEMBOURG AU SUJET DES REVENDICATIONS ENTRE LES DEUX GOUVERNEMENTS RESULTANT DE LA CONDUITE DE LA GUERRE.

Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg sont d'accord sur ce qui suit :
1. L'obligation du Gouvernement du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg envers le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique pour la part des Etats-Unis dans la revendication collective pour les approvisionnements civils fournis par les armées alliées au Gouvernement du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg (Plan A) fait l'objet d'un accord séparé. 2. Toutes les autres revendications financières entre le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement du GrandDuché de Luxembourg qui sont résultées d'événements se rattachant à la conduite de la guerre , survenus entre le trois septembre 1939 et le deux septembre 1945 , exception faite des revendications résultant d'accords existants où la responsabilité des paiements a été reconnue jusqu'ici et la méthode de calcul convenue sont par la présente effacées et aucun des gouvernements ne pourra désormais élever ou poursuivre une telle revendication contre l'autre.
Signé en double à Luxembourg, le douze septembre 1946.
Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique
[SEAL] GEORGE Platt WALLER George Platt Waller

Pour le Gouvernement du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg [SEAL] PIERRE DUPONG Pierre Dupong

4007

4008

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT,

October 23, 1945, and May 6, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 2073]

Agreement between the United States ofAmerica and Guatemala respecting a cooperative educational program in Guatemala, confirming and accepting the agreement of August 12 , 1944, as amended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Guatemala October 23, 1945 , and May 6, 1947; entered into force May 6 , 1947 , operative retroactively from August 12, 1944.

The American Ambassador to the Guatemalan Minister ofForeign Relations

EMBASSY

No. 396

Guatemala, October 23, 1945.

EXCELLENCY :

59 Stat. 1272. Post, p. 4011 .

I have the honor to refer to Note No. 11959 , of September 16, 1944 , of Your Excellency's Ministry, and to previous and subsequent correspondence relating to the Cooperative Educational Program which is being undertaken jointly by the Government of Guatemala and the Government of the United States under terms of an agreement signed on August 12 , 1944 by the then Minister of

Public Education of Your Excellency's Government and the Vice President of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc., a corporation of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs. and an agency of the Government of the United States of America.

The original agreement of August 12, 1944 was drawn in quite general terms . A survey of the schools made since the Agreement was signed, and the scope of the plans which the Ministry of Public Education has made for their improvement, have indicated the de-

sirability of amplifying the terms of the original agreement. I understand that the Ministry of Public Education of Your Excellency's Government and qualified experts of the Foundation have now agreed informally to a continuation and amplification of the Co-

Special organism ; contributions.

operative Educational Program, and of the terms of the original agreement .
In this respect , it is my understanding that the Government of Guatemala is prepared to create as an integral part of its Ministry

of Education , a special organism with juridical personality to be known as the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educacion,

which shall act as the intermediary between the two governments in carrying out the Cooperative Program, and of which the Special

Representative of the Foundation shall be appointed Director. It is my further understanding that the Government of Guatemala is

prepared , to contribute Fifty Thousand Quetzales (Q50,000) in cash, over a period of three years , to a bank account to be established in

the name of the Servicio for carrying out local projects and to set up, also in the name of the Servicio , a special account of One Hundred

Thousand Quetzales (Q100,000) to be used, over the same period of

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- May 6, 1947

4009

time, exclusively in the construction of school buildings in connection

with the Cooperative Program as mutually agreed upon by the Minister of Public Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation . I am advised that the Foundation is prepared on its part to contribute the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars

($100,000 ) in cash, over a period of three years , to the Servicio ac-

count for local projects and to provide, over the same period , technical

personnel and pay their salaries and expenses in an amount not to

exceed One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($ 150,000 ) .
Facilities, exemp I understand , also, that the Government of Guatemala is disposed tions, etc.

to continue making available to the Foundation , and to make available

to the Servicio, such office space, office equipment and furnishings , and other of its facilities , materials and supplies as it may conveniently

supply for the program, and that it is disposed to grant to the Servicio exemtion and immunity from any and all taxes, fees , charges , imposts, and customs duties whether national, departmental , provincial, or municipal and from all requirements for licenses , and to grant both to the Servicio and to its official personnel all the rights and

privileges, such as postal, telegraph , and telephone franks and right to special government rates allowed by domestic companies of maritime, rail and air travel, telegraph and telephone , etc. , which are enjoyed by the dependencies and officials of the Government of the Republic. I understand that the Republic is disposed to accept the Foundation as an agency of the Government of the United States , entitled to the exemptions and immunities enumerated above, and also to grant to the Foundation all the rights and privileges enumerated above, and to the personnel of the Foundation , who are citizens of the United States of America, exemption from all Guatemalan income

taxes and social security taxes on income on which they are obliged

to pay equivalent taxes to the United States of America , from property taxes on personal property intended for their own use, and from customs duties on their personal effects and on supplies and equipment imported and exported for their personal use.
I understand that, pursuant to Article 9 of the original agreement,

Post, p. 4013.

the details of the expanded Cooperative Program are currently being worked out in an amplificatory Agreement [ ] between the repre-

Post, p. 4019.

sentatives of the Ministry of Public Education of Your Excellency's

Government and the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc.

I should appreciate receiving from Your Excellency confirmation that my understanding of the arrangements described in this note is

correct and that the points outlined herein are satisfactory to the Government of Guatemala .

Please accept, Excellency, the reassurance of my highest and most

distinguished consideration .

EDWIN J. KYLE.

His Excellency

Licenciado don GUILLERMO TORIELLO,

Minister of Foreign Relations, Guatemala.

1 Signed Oct. 23, 1945.

4010

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

The Guatemalan Minister of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

7271

REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA

SECCION DIPLOMATICA

360. E. (73-0)

GUATEMALA, 6 de mayo de 1947.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo el honor de informar a Vuestra Excelencia, con referencia a su atenta nota número 396 , de fecha 23 de octubre de 1945 , y a correspondencia anterior sobre el mismo asunto , que por Decreto emitido el 15 de abril próximo pasado , el Congreso de la República aprobó el Convenio sobre un programa cooperativo educacional y el Convenio ampliatorio del mismo , suscritos en esta capital por el Ministro de Educación Pública, en representación del Gobierno de Guatemala, y por el VicePresidente de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana de los Estados Unidos de Norte América, el 12 de agosto de 1944 y el 23 de octubre de 1945 , respectivamente.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi consideración más alta y distinguida,
EUGENIO SILVA PEÑA Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores.

Excelentísimo Señor EDWIN J. KYLE, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de Norte América. Ciudad.

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS

REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

DIPLOMATIC SECTION

7271

360.E. (73-0)

GUATEMALA, May 6, 1947.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

Ante, p. 4008.

I have the honor to inform Your Excellency, that in reference to your courteous note No. 396 dated October 23 , 1945 , and to previous correspondence on the same subject, the Congress of the Republic, by Decree issued on April 15 , 1947 , approved the Agreement on a cooperative educational program and the respective amplificatory Agreement, signed in this capital by the Minister of Public Education representing the Government of Guatemala and by the Vice President of the Inter-American Educational Foundation of the United States

Post, pp. 4011, 4019. of America on August 12 , 1944 and October 23 , 1945, respectively. I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the
assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

EUGENIO SILVA PEÑA

Minister of Foreign Relations. His Excellency EDWIN J. KYLE,
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- May 6, 1947

4011

Agreement between the Republic of Guatemala and the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.

The REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (hereinafter called the " Republic") ; and the INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC. , a corporation of the office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the " Foundation" ) , have decided to celebrate the following contract to undertake a cooperative educational program to promote Inter-American understanding by bringing about a better interchange of educators , educational ideas and methods between Guatemala and the United States, pursuant to Resolution 28 adopted by the First Conference of Ministers and Directors of Education of the American Republics held in Panama in September and October 1943 .
1. The said cooperative educational program may include :

The Republic. The Foundation.
Program .

a. Furnishing by the Foundation of a Field Staff of educational specialists requested by the Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Publica for service in Guatemala in carrying out the cooperative educational program;

b. Grants to permit Guatemalan educators to go to the United States for specialized training, to lecture , to teach and to interchange ideas and experience with United States educators ;

c. Exploration and survey in Guatemala of local educational needs and resources for carrying out training projects in the normal schools in the field of teacher training for rural , and primary and elementary urban schools.

d . Development, adaptation, and exchange of suitable teaching materials for teachers on the primary and elementary levels.

e. Local projects needed to implement the program in Guatemala.

2. The Field Staff shall be under the direction of an official who

Special Representative.

shall have the title of Special Representative , Inter-American Educa-

tional Foundation, Inc. , and who shall be the representative of the

Foundation in connection with the program to be undertaken in

accordance with this Agreement . The Special Representative and other members of the Field Staff shall be acceptable to the Republic.
3. The said cooperative educational program shall be carried out in

Projects.

Guatemala through the Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de

Educación Pública de la República de Guatemala, with the technical advice and assistance of the Field Staff of the Foundation , as pro-

vided herein . It shall consist of individual Projects. The Projects

shall consist of specific kinds of work and activity to be undertaken by the representatives of either or both Governments in the execution

of this Agreement . The Projects and the allocation of funds therefor shall be mutually agreed upon in writing by the Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública of the Republic and the Special Representative of the Foundation.

4012

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Salaries and expenses.

4. The Foundation shall pay the salaries and other expenses payable

directly to the members of the Field Staff in an amount not to exceed Seventy Thousand Dollars ($ 70,000) , U.S. currency and shall in addicoSupnetc. ial bank action pay into a special bank account in the bank of the Republic's choice, to be entitled " Cooperative Education Program-InterAmerican Educational Foundation , Inc. " , from time to time on the

basis of need as determined by the Special Representative of the Foundation and the Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública, the sum or sums which will aggregate Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000 ) , U.S. currency. The Republic shall, in addition to its regular budget for education , pay into the said special bank account from time to time on the basis of need , as determined by the Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública and the Special Representative of the Foundation, the sum or sums which will aggregate Fifty Thousand Quetzaltes (Q50,000) , Guatemalan currency. Within sixty days after the execution of this Agreement the Foundation shall pay into the said special bank account the sum of Ten Thousand Dollars ($ 10,000) , U.S. currency , and the Republic shall pay into the said special bank account Seventeen Thousand Quetzales (Q17,000) , Guatemalan currency, as the first installment from each fuAnddmsi. nistration of Government for the said cooperative educational program. The funds

in the said special bank account shall be administered by the Foundation and devoted exclusively to the said cooperative educational program as provided herein , and all Contracts necessary to carry out the terms of the Projects mutually agreed to by the representatives of the two Governments shall be in the name of the Foundation. If

the Republic desires and so notifies the Foundation in writing, checks for the expenditure of funds in the said special bank account shall be
reRpeorctosr. ds; financial countersigned by a representative of the Republic . The books and records of the Foundation relating to the said cooperative educational
program shall be open at all times for inspection by representatives of the Republic , and the Foundation shall render financial reports to the Republic at such times as may be agreed upon between the Secre-
tario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública and the Special Representative of the Foundation. Assistance to Foun- 5. The Foundation shall use its best efforts to obtain such assistance dation . and cooperation of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs and

other agencies , both public and private, in the United States, as

may be appropriate for the execution of the said cooperative educa-

ReApsusbilsitca. nce bythe tional program. The Republic shall make available office space , office equipment, furnishings and such other of its facilities, material,

equipment and supplies as it may conveniently provide for the said program, and shall lend the general assistance thereto of the other

Funds withheld for purchases in U.S.

Departments of the Republic . 6. In view of the fact that many purchases of materials and supplies
must necessarily be made in the United States of America the Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública and the Special

Representative of the Foundation may agree to withhold from the

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- May 6, 1947

4013

payments to be made by the Foundation, into the said special bank account, as provided herein, an amount deemed to be necessary to pay for such purchases of materials and supplies in the United States of America. Any funds so withheld by the Foundation for such purchases and not expended or obligated therefor shall be deposited in the said special bank account at any time upon the mutual agreement of the Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública and the Special Representative of the Foundation .
7. The funds paid and payable into the said special bank account by the parties hereto shall continue to be available for the said cooperative educational program during the existence of this Agreement. Interest, if any, on any balances of funds in the said special bank account shall be used for the said cooperative educational program .

Disposition offunds. Interest on funds.

The Secretario de Estado en El Despacho de Educación Pública

and the Special Representative of the Foundation shall determine by
mutual agreement the disposition of any unobligated funds remaining
in the said special bank account upon the termination of this AgreeSurplus administra-
ment. In the event that , upon the expiration of each twelve -month tive funds. period of this Agreement, the Foundation deems that the said funds
which it has set aside for the payment of salaries and other expenses

directly payable to members of the Field Staff, as provided in Paragraph 4 hereof, will be more than is needed for that purpose, the Foundation, at the end of each such twelve-month period , shall advise the Republic of the additional sum which has become available for Projects and such additional sum shall be paid into the said special bank account or otherwise disposed of pursuant to this Agreement . At least six months prior to the termination of this Agree- puNboltiicfiocfaftiuonndstoavaRiel--

ment the Foundation shall similarly notify the Republic as to what, able for Projects. if any, of such funds will be available for Projects of the said cooperative educational program during the remainder of the program, and the disposition of any such funds so made available shall be determined by mutual agreement between the Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública and the Special Representative of the Foundation.
Delegation of au8. Any right, power, or duty conferred by this Agreement upon thority either the Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública

or the Special Representative of the Foundation may be delegated

by the recipient thereof to representatives, provided that such repre-

sentatives are satisfactory to the said official of the other Government. 9. This Agreement may be amended from time to time if deemed

Amendment.

advisable by the parties hereto , such amendments to be in writing and signed by representatives of the Republic and the Foundation.
10. The Executive Power of the Republic will take the necessary steps to obtain the legislation, decrees, orders or resolutions necessary

Cooperation by Executive Power of Re-
public.

to carry out the terms of this Agreement.
11. This Agreement shall be in force for a period of three years from the date hereof.

Duration.

4014

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives, in English and in Spanish, in Guatemala, C.A. , on the twelfth day of August, 1944 .
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA By LUIS GAITAN
Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública
INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC . By KENNETH HOLLAND Vice-President

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- May 6, 1947
CONVENIO ENTRE LA REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA
Y THE INTER -AMERICAN EDUCATION FOUNDA-
TION INC. 1944.-
LA REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA (en adelante llamada "La República" ) , y the INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC. , un organismo de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericanos y agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (en adelante llamada la "Fundación" ) , han decidido celebrar el siguiente Convenio , con el fin de poner en práctica un Programa Cooperativo Educacional para promover el mejor entendimiento interamericano, mediante el intercambio de educadores e ideas y métodos educativos entre Guatemala y los Estados Unidos , de conformidad con la Resolución XXVIII de la Primera Conferencia de Ministros y Directores de Educación de las Repúblicas Americanas, adoptada en Panamá en Septiembre y Octubre de 1943.
1. -El mencionado Programa Cooperativo Educacional podría comprender:
a) -Envío, por parte de la Fundación, y a requerimiento de la Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública , de un Cuerpo de educadores especializados, que prestarán sus servicios en Guatemala, para llevar adelante el Programa Cooperativo Educacional ; b) -Facilidades para que educadores guatemaltecos vayan a los Estados Unidos con el objeto de seguir cursos de especialización, contribuyendo, por su parte, por medio de conferencias y otros procedimientos adecuados, al intercambio de ideas y experiencias con los educadores de los Estados Unidos ;
c) -Estudio, en la República de Guatemala, de las necesidades y recursos locales con vistas a establecer una serie de proyectos, acerca de la preparación que están llamadas a suministrar las Escuelas Normales para Maestros de enseñanza rural y de enseñanza primaria urbana ; d) -Desarrollo, adaptación e intercambio de materiales adecuados de enseñanza para los maestros de la escuela primaria ; e) -Adopción de planes de trabajo locales para el desarrollo del Programa en Guatemala .
2. -El Cuerpo de educadores especializados a que se refiere el inciso a) del Artículo anterior, estará bajo la dirección de un funcionario con el cargo de Representante Especial de la Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc., a quien se tendrá como Delegado de la Fundación para todo lo relacionado con el Programa que será puesto en práctica de acuerdo con este Convenio . La designación del Representante Especial así como la de los demás técnicos de su Oficina debe recibir, previamente, la aceptación del Gobierno de la República.

4015

4016

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
3. -El desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo Educacional de que se trata, se llevará a cabo por medio de la Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública de Guatemala, con la asesoría técnica y la cooperación del Cuerpo de educadores de la Fundación, del que ya se ha hecho mérito, y consistirá en planes de trabajo locales sobre determinadas actividades que estarán encomendadas a los Representantes de uno o de los dos países entre los que se celebra este Convenio . Tales planes de trabajo, así como el empleo de los fondos necesarios para llevarlos a cabo, habrán de ser previamente aprobados mediante un documento que, de mutuo acuerdo , suscribirán el Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública de Guatemala y el Representante Especial de la Fundación .
4. La Fundación tendrá a su cargo cubrir los sueldos y los otros gastos que deban ser pagados directamente a los miembros del Cuerpo de educadores especializados, para lo que habrá de disponer de una suma que no exceda de SETENTA MIL DOLARES ($ 70.000.00) , moneda americana ; debiendo depositar además, en una cuenta especial abierta en el Banco que al efecto elija la República, y bajo el rubro de "COOPERATIVE EDUCATION PROGRAM-INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC.", conforme lo exijan las necesidades y según lo determinen el Representante Especial de la Fundación y el Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública , la suma o sumas necesarias para totalizar TREINTA MIL DOLARES ($30.000.00) , moneda americana. La República, en adición al Presupuesto General de Gastos del Ramo , abonará de tiempo en tiempo la cuenta mencionada, con base en las necesidades y conforme lo determinen el Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación , la suma o sumas necesarias para totalizar CINCUENTA MIL QUETZALES (Q50.000.00) , moneda guatemalteca . Sesenta días después de la adopción de este Convenio , la Fundación colocará en la mencionada cuenta especial la suma de DIEZ MIL DOLARES ($ 10.000.00 ) , moneda americana, y la República, por su parte, colocará en la mencionada cuenta la suma de DIECISIETE MIL
QUETZALES (Q17.000.00) , moneda guatemalteca, como primer abono de cada Gobierno para el desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo Educacional . Los fondos de la mencionada cuenta especial serán administrados por la Fundación y dedicados exclusivamente al desarrollo de dicho Programa Cooperativo Educacional , tal como queda establecido por este Convenio ; y todos los contratos necesarios para llevar adelante los puntos contenidos en los planes de trabajo aceptados de mutuo acuerdo por los Representantes de los dos Gobiernos , serán celebrados en nombre de la Fundación . Si la República lo desea , notificándolo por escrito a la Fundación , los cheques para la inversión de fondos de la mencionada cuenta especial, irán firmados por un representante de la República . Los libros y registros de la Fundación, relacionados con el Programa Cooperativo Educacional, estarán

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-
May 6, 1947
siempre disponibles para su inspección por parte de los Representantes de la República, y la Fundación rendirá cuentas relativas al manejo de fondos a la República, en cualquier momento que así lo acuerden el Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación.
5. -La Fundación empleará sus mejores esfuerzos a fín de obtener la ayuda y la cooperación del Coordinador de Asuntos Interamericano, así como de otras agencias, tanto públicas como privadas de los Estados Unidos, y en la medida que lo juzgue oportuno, para la ejecución del Programa Cooperativo Educacional. La República proporcionará local para la Oficina, así como el equipo , implementos y materiales necesarios para la misma , a la que prestará la cooperación que tal Oficina pueda necesitar de otras dependencias del Gobierno .
6. -En vista de que muchas compras de implementos y materiales tendrán necesariamente que hacerse en los Estados Unidos de América, el Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación, podrán disponer que se reserve, de los abonos que habría de hacer la Fundación a la cuenta especial de la que se habla más arriba, una suma destinada al pago de tales compras de implementos y materiales en los Estados Unidos de América . Los fondos así retenidos por la Fundación para las compras de que se trata, y que aún no se adeuden ni hayan sido invertidos, serán depositados en la mencionada cuenta especial en cualquier tiempo , mediante mutuo acuerdo entre el Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación .
7. -Los fondos abonados o por abonarse por las partes interesadas a la cuenta especial, continuarán en disponibilidad para el desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo Educacional durante la duración de este Convenio . Los intereses, si los hubiere en algún capítulo de tales fondos de la cuenta especial, serán utilizados para el desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo Educacional . El Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación determinarán, de mutuo acuerdo , el destino que haya de darse a los fondos de la cuenta especial no invertidos a la terminación de este Convenio. En el caso de que , a la expiración de cada período de doce meses de los que comprende este Convenio, la Fundación considere que las sumas que se han reservado para el pago de sueldos y otros gastos de los miembros del Cuerpo de educadores especializados, conforme al punto 4) -de este Convenio, exceden de lo que se necesita para tal objeto , la misma Fundación, al fín de cada período de doce meses , dará a conocer a la República el dato relativo a la suma adicional que, por tal concepto, quede en disponibilidad para sufragar los planes de
trabajo ; y dicha suma adicional será entonces abonada a la

4017

4018

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
cuenta especial, o destinada en otra forma a la ejecución del Convenio . Por lo menos seis meses antes de la terminación de este Convenio , la Fundación notificará igualmente a la República acerca de los fondos disponibles, si los hubiere, para los planes de trabajo del Programa Cooperativo Educacional, durante el período que falte para la terminación del Convenio ; y el destino que haya de darse a tales fondos será determinado de mutuo acuerdo entre el Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación ,
8. -Todo derecho , poder o responsabilidad que por medio de este Convenio adquieran así el Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública como el Representante Especial de la Fundación , puede ser delegado por cada uno de ellos en sus representantes , siempre que tales representantes sean juzgados idóneos por la otra de las partes .
9. -Este Contrato puede ser reformado de tiempo en tiempo, si las partes interesadas consideran necesaria tal reforma, la cual se hará constar por escrito y será autorizada con la firma de los Representantes de la República y de la Fundación.
10. -El Poder Ejecutivo de la República tomará las medidas necesarias para que sean adoptados las leyes, decretos, órdenes o resoluciones necesarios para llevar a la práctica los términos de este Convenio.
11. -El presente Convenio estará en vigor durante un período de tres años, a contar de esta fecha.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes contratantes suscriben este Convenio por medio de sus Representantes autorizados, en los idiomas inglés y español, en la ciudad de Guatemala, C.A. , a los doce días del mes de Agosto de mil novecientos cuarenta y cuatro .
POR REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA LUIS GAITAN
Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Educación Pública
POR THE INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC.
KENNETH HOLLAND Vice-Presidente.

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- May 6, 1947

4019

Amplifying Agreement between the Republic of Guatemala and the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc.

The REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (hereinafter called the " Republic") ; and the INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION , INC. , a corpora-

The Republic.

tion of the Office of Inter-American Affairs and an Agency of the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter called the "Foundation") , have decided to celebrate the following contract of amplification of the Agreement signed between representatives of the Republic and the Foundation on August 12 , 1944 , which Agreement provided for the undertaking of a Cooperative Educational Program to promote Inter-American understanding by bringing about a better interchange of educators , and educational ideas and methods , between Guatemala and the United States, pursuant to Resolution 28 of the First Conference of Ministers and Directors of Education of the

The Foundation. Ante, p. 4011.

American Republics held in Panama in September and October, 1943 , and pursuant to Resolution 58 adopted by the Inter-American Conference on Problems of War and Peace, held at Mexico City in February and March, 1945.
The said original Agreement of August 12 , 1944 was drawn in general terms. A survey of the schools made since the Agreement was signed , and the scope of the plans which the Ministry of Public Education has made for their improvement, have indicated the desir-

ability of amplifying the terms of the said original Agreement . The parties hereto therefore agree, effective as of this date, to the continuation and amplification of the Cooperative Educational Program in Guatemala and of the terms of the said original Agreement as follows :
1. The Republic shall create, as an integral part of its Ministry of Public Education, an organism with juridical personality to be known as the SERVICIO COOPERATIVO INTERAMERICANO DE EDUCACION

Effective date. The Servicio.

(hereinafter called the " Servicio " ) , which shall be the intermediary between the two Governments for the carrying out of the said Coop-

erative Educational Program in Guatemala . The Field Staff of the Foundation shall render technical advice and assistance to the Servicio

in carrying out the said Program.

2.

The Field Staff of the Foundation shall be under the direction

Special Representative.

of an official who shall have the title of Special Representative, Inter-

American Educational Foundation, Inc., and who shall be the repre-

sentative of the Foundation in connection with the Cooperative Educational Program in Guatemala . The Special Representative and the other members of the Field Staff shall be acceptable to the Republic. The Minister of Public Education shall be the represen-

tative of the Republic in connection with the Cooperative Educational Program.
3. The Special Representative of the Foundation shall be the Director of the Servicio . The Director of the Servicio shall , in agreement with the Minister of Public Education , select , appoint, and discharge its employees and determine their salaries and conditions of employment. The Director shall direct, manage, and supervise the other affairs and activities of the Servicio , and may delegate
68706-52- PT. III- -89

Director.

4020

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Collaboration. Activities.

authority to persons employed by the Servicio , to officials or employees of the Republic , or to members of the Field Staff of the Foundation. Contracts for the execution of Projects mutually agreed upon as hereinafter provided shall be executed in the name of the Servicio by the Director of the Servicio or by his duly designated representative.
4. The said Cooperative Educational Program shall include:
A. Collaboration between Guatemalan educators and a Field
Staff of educational specialists requested by mutual accord between the Minister of Public Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation and furnished by the Foundation for service in Guatemala in carrying out the Cooperative Educational Program.
B. Provision, by means of mutually approved Project Agreements , for the advancement of the program in Guatemala through such activities as:

(1) Exploration and survey of local educational needs and
resources for carrying out teacher-training projects in the normal schools ;

(2) Training and specialization of Guatemalan teachers in Guatemala and in the United States ;

(3) Provision of opportunities for Guatemalan educators to go to the United States to lecture , to teach, and to interchange ideas and experience with the United States educators ;
(4) Development, adaptation , procurement , and exchange of suitable teaching materials for teachers and teacher-trainers ;
(5) Other Projects of an educational nature which may be mutually agreed upon as provided herein.

Projects.

5. The Cooperative Educational Program shall consist of individual

Projects of specific kinds of work and activity. The Projects and the allocations of funds therefor shall be mutually agreed upon in writing

by the Minister of Public Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation , and the Projects shall be carried out through the

Servicio in conformity with policies and procedures prescribed jointly

Ante, p. 4011 .
Special bank account.

by the Minister of Public Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation. Projects previously agreed upon pursuant to the said original Agreement shall be carried out through the Servicio in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
6. Pursuant to the said original Agreement, a special bank account entitled " Cooperative Education Program- Inter-American Educa-

tional Foundation, Inc. " has been established by the Foundation in

the Banco Central de Guatemala . Promptly upon the creation of the

Servicio, the Foundation shall deposit the unobligated balance of the funds in the said special bank account, in a different bank account to be established in the name of the Servicio. The Foundation shall

pay into the said bank account of the Servicio the total sum of One Hundred Thousand dollars ( $ 100,000 ) , U.S. Currency, and the Republic shall pay into the said bank account of the Servicio the total sum of Fifty Thousand quetzales (Q50,000) , Guatemalan Currency, as meSncthse. dule of pay provided herein. The payments by each party shall be made, respectively, unless other dates of deposit are established by mutual agree-

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- May 6, 1947

ment between the Minister of Public Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation, in conformity with the following schedule :

Deposits to be Deposits to be

Date

made by the

made by the

Foundation

Republic

4021

On or before November 15, 1945 On or before November 15, 1946 On or before November 15, 1947

$33, 334. 00 33, 333. 00 33, 333.00

Q 17, 000. 00 17, 000. 00 16, 000. 00

$100, 000. 00 Q 50, 000. 00

The amount of the initial deposit of each party above specified shall be reduced respectively by the amount or amounts of any funds already deposited by that party into the said special bank account opened in the name of the Foundation pursuant to the said original Agreement. The funds deposited for any given period by either party in the bank account of the Servicio shall not be withdrawn therefrom until the

funds for that period have been deposited by both parties . Salaries and ex-
7. The Foundation shall , in addition to its contribution in cash to penses.
the bank account of the Servicio , determine and pay the salaries and
other expenses of its Field Staff in Guatemala during the period of

this Agreement in an amount not to exceed One Hundred Fifty Additional contri-
Thousand dollars ($ 150,000 ) , U. S. Currency. The Republic shall, bution by Republic.

in addition to its said contribution for local Projects to the bank account of the Servicio , establish a special fund in the total amount of

One Hundred Thousand quetzales (Q100,000 ) , Guatemalan Currency, to be devoted exclusively to the construction of school buildings in

connection with the said Cooperative Educational Program , as mutually agreed upon by the Minister of Public Education and the

Special Representative of the Foundation . The said sum of One

Hundred Thousand quetzales (Q100,000) shall be deposited by the Republic in a separate bank account in the name of the Servicio at

such time or times and in such amount or amounts as shall be agreed upon by mutual agreement between the Minister of Public Education

and the Special Representative of the Foundation . Accordingly, the maximum cash contribution of the Foundation for the said Cooperative

Educational Program shall be Two Hundred Fifty Thousand dollars ($250,000) , and that of the Republic shall be One Hundred Fifty Thousand quetzales (Q150,000 ) . The Republic shall also continue to make available to the Foundation and shall make available to the

Servicio such office space, office equipment and furnishings and such

other of its facilities , material, equipment, and supplies as it may

conveniently provide for the program.

8. The funds paid and payable by the parties hereto into the bank

Availability and disposition of funds.

account of the Servicio shall continue to be available for the said

Cooperative Educational Program during the existence of this Agreement . Interest , if any, on the funds in the bank account of the Servicio shall be used for the purposes of the said Cooperative

Educational Program . The Minister of Public Education and the

4022

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Special Representative of the Foundation shall determine by mutual

Audit of accounts.

agreement the disposition of any unobligated funds remaining in the bank accounts of the Servicio upon the termination of this Agreement. The accounts of the Servicio shall be audited at such times and in such manner as may be agreed upon between the Minister of Public

Funds withheld for purchases in U.S.

Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation. 9. In view of the fact that purchases of some materials and supplies
must be made in the United States of America , the Minister of Public

Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation may

agree to withhold from the deposits to be made by the Foundation into the bank account of the Servicio , as provided herein, an amount

or amounts deemed to be necessary to pay for such purchases. Any funds so withheld by the Foundation for such purchases and not

obligated therefor shall be deposited in the bank account of the

Servicio at any time upon the mutual agreement of the Minister of

Public Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation.

Exemptions, immu-

nities, etc.

10. The Servicio shall be exempt and immune from any and

all taxes, fees, charges , imposts and customs duties, whether national,

departmental, provincial or municipal, and from all requirements for licenses. The Servicio and its official personnel shall also enjoy all

the rights and privileges which are enjoyed by departments and officials of the Republic . Such rights and privileges shall include, for

example, postal , telegraph and telephone franks and the right to

special rates allowed to the departments of the Republic by domestic

companies of maritime, railroad , and air travel, telegraph, telephone,

etc. The Republic agrees to accept and recognize the Foundation as an Agency of the Government of the United States of America , and,

accordingly, the Foundation shall be entitled , among other things,

to all the exemptions and immunities enumerated above. The Foundation shall also enjoy all the rights and privileges above set

forth. The personnel of the Foundation who are citizens of the

United States of America shall be exempt from all Guatemalan income

taxes and social security taxes with respect to income on which they

are obliged to pay income or social security tax to the Government of the United States of America , and from property taxes on personal

property intended for their own use. Said employees shall also be exempt from customs duties on their personal effects and on supplies

and equipment imported or exported for their personal use.

Delegation of authority.

11. Any right, power, or duty conferred by this Agreement upon

either the Minister of Public Education or the Special Representative

of the Foundation may be delegated by the recipient thereof to one

Cooperation by Executive Organism of
the Republic.

or more representatives , provided that each such representative shall be satisfactory to both officials .
12. The Executive Organism of the Republic shall take the necessary steps to obtain the legislation , decrees , orders or resolutions

necessary to carry out the terms of this Agreement, and this Agree

Duration; termina- ment shall remain in force until at least June 30 , 1948. It shall be tion.
terminated by either party hereto on that date or at any time there-

after by giving to the other party at least sixty (60) days' written notice in advance.

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- May 6, 1947
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed , in English and in Spanish, by their duly authorized representatives, in Guatemala, C.A. , this twenty third day of October 1945.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA By: M M AVILA A
Secretario de Educación
INTER AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC . By: KENNETH HOLLAND
President

4023

4024

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
LA REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA (en adelante llamada "La Repú blica") y the INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION , INC. , un organismo de la Oficina del Coordinador de Asuntos Inter-Americanos y agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (en adelante llamada la "Fundación") , han decidido celebrar el siguiente Convenio ampliatorio del firmado por los Representantes de la República y la Fundación , el doce de agosto de mil novecientos cuarenta y cuatro, con el fin de poner en práctica un Programa Cooperativo Educacional para promover el mejor entendimiento interamericano , mediante el intercambio de educadores e ideas y métodos educativos entre Guate-
mala y los Estados Unidos, de conformidad con la Resolución XXVIII de la Primera Conferencia de Ministros y Directores de Educación de las Repúblicas Americanas, adoptada en Panamá en Septiembre y Octubre de 1943, y de conformidad con la Resolución LVIII del Congreso Inter- Americano sobre los Problemas de la Guerra y la Paz, adoptada en México en Febrero y Marzo de mil novecientos cuarenta y cinco .
El Convenio original de doce de agosto de mil novecientos cuarenta y cuatro , fué redactado en términos generales . Un estudio de las escuelas del país hecho desde que el Convenio fué firmado y la amplitud de los proyectos que prepara el Ministerio de Educación Pública para
mejorar las condiciones de la escuela guatemalteca, han indicado la conveniencia de ampliar los términos del convenio original. Por lo tanto , las partes contratantes, con el fin de continuar y ampliar el Programa Cooperativo Educacional en Guatemala y los términos del Convenio original de fecha doce de agosto de mil novecientos cuarenta y cuatro, acuerdan de conformidad con el Articulo No. 9 de dicho Convenio , hacerlo como se estipula a continuacion:
1. La República establecerá, adscrito al Ministerio de Educación Pública, un organismo con personería jurídica denominado el Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Educación (en adelante llamado el "Servicio" ) que será el intermediario entre los dos gobiernos, para llevar a cabo dicho Programa Cooperativo Educacional en Guatemala. El cuerpo de educadores especializados de la Fundación prestará asesoría técnica y cooperación al "Servicio" para llevar adelante dicho Programa.
2. El personal de la Fundación estará bajo la dirección de un Funcionario con el cargo de Representante Especial de la Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. , a quien se tendrá como delegado de la Fundación en Guatemala para todo lo relacionado con el Programa Cooperativo Educacional. El nombramiento del Representante Especial, y de los otros miembros del personal de educadores especializados , debe ser aprobado previamente por la República . El Ministro de Educación Pública será el representante de la República en todo lo relativo al Programa Cooperativo Educacional.
3. El Representante Especial de la Fundación será Director del "Servicio". El Director del "Servicio", de acuerdo con el Ministro de Educación Pública , elegirá y nombrará , a sus empleados , los removerá en caso necesario, y determinará los sueldos y condiciones de empleo.

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-
May 6, 1947
El Director orientará, administrará, e inspeccionará todos los asuntos y las actividades del "Servicio". El Director puede delegar su autoridad en personas empleadas por el "Servicio " , en oficiales o empleados de la República, o en miembros del cuerpo de educadores de la Fundación . Los contratos para realizar los planes mutuamente aprobados , como adelante se especifica , serán celebrados en nombre del "Servicio" por el Director del mismo o por su representante legal .
4. El Programa Cooperativo Educacional comprenderá : A. Colaboración entre los educadores guatemaltecos y un cuerpo de
educadores especializados , seleccionados de acuerdo mutuo entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación y enviados por ésta para prestar sus servicios en Guatemala y desarrollar el Programa Cooperativo Educacional.
B. Desarrollo, por medio de proyectos locales mutuamente aprobados, de actividades , que tienen por objeto la realización total del programa en Guatemala, como las siguientes :
(1) Estudio en la República de las necesidades y recursos locales con vistas a llevar a cabo una serie de proyectos para la preparación de maestros en las escuelas normales.
(2) Preparación y perfeccionamiento de profesores guatemaltecos en Guatemala y en los Estados Unidos .
(3) Dar oportunidades para que educadores guatemaltecos vayan a los Estados Unidos , donde , por medio de conferencias y otros procedimientos adecuados, contribuyan al intercambio de ideas y experiencias con los educadores de los Estados Unidos .
(4) Desarrollo, adaptación , adquisición e intercambio de materiales adecuados para los maestros de escuelas elementales y los profesores de escuelas normales .
(5) Otras actividades de carácter educacional que serán mutuamente aprobadas, de conformidad con este Convenio.
5. El Programa Cooperativo Educacional consistirán en planes específicos de trabajo , sobre determinadas actividades. Los planes y las asignaciones que su desarrollo demande se estipularán de mutuo acuerdo, en forma escrita, entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación . Dichos planes se pondrán en acción por medio del "Servicio" , conforme a la política y el procedimiento mutuamente acordados entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación . Todos los planes previamente aprobados de acuerdo con el Convenio original serán realizados por medio del " Servicio" conforme a los términos del presente Convenio.
6. De acuerdo con dicho Convenio original, la Fundación ha abierto una cuenta especial en el Banco Central de Guatemala, bajo el rubro "Cooperative Education Program, Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc." Tan pronto como se establezca el "Servicio ", la Fundación depositará el saldo de dicha cuenta especial, en una cuenta nueva a nombre del mismo "Servicio". La Fundación aportará a esta cuenta del "Servicio" la cantidad total de Cien Mil Dólares

4025

4026

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

($ 100,000) moneda americana , y la República aportará a la misma

cuenta del "Servicio" la cantidad total de Cincuenta Mil Quetzales

(Q50,000 ) moneda guatemalteca , como estipula este Convenio . Si

otras fechas de depósito no hubieren sido acordadas previamente

entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial

de la Fundación, los depósitos respectivos se harán, por las partes

contratantes, de conformidad con el plan siguiente:

Fecha

Depósito que efec- Depósito que efec tuará la Fundación tuarála República

El 15 de noviembre de 1945 o antes, El 15 de noviembre de 1946 o antes El 15 de noviembre de 1947 o antes

$33, 334. 00 $33, 333. 00 $33, 333.00

Q 17,000.00 Q 17,000.00 Q 16,000.00

$100,000.00 Q 50,000.00
Las sumas ya depositadas por cualquiera de las partes en virtud del Convenio original , formarán parte del primer depósito, en la cuenta del "Servicio" , como lo establece el presente contrato. Los fondos depositados en la cuenta del " Servicio" por cualquiera de las partes contratantes , de conformidad con las obligaciones ya mencionadas, no podrán gastarse mientras no se hayan hecho efectivas ambas contribu-
ciones correspondientes al período . 7. La Fundación determinará los gastos y salarios del cuerpo de
educadores especializados que presten sus servicios en Guatemala de acuerdo con este Convenio , y los pagará en adición a su contribución en la cuenta del "Servicio" , siempre que no exceden de la suma de Ciento Cincuenta Mil Dólares ($ 150,000) moneda americana mientras esté en vigor el presente Convenio . La República, en adición a su contribución en la cuenta del "Servicio", dedicará un fondo especial de Cien Mil Quetzales (Q100,000 ) para ser invertido exclusivamente en la construcción de edificios para escuelas rurales relacionadas con el
Programa Cooperativo , según lo acuerden el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación . La República depositará dicha cantidad de Cien Mil Quetzales en una cuenta bancaria distinta a nombre del "Servicio" , en los tiempos y en las cantidades que se convengan entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación . De este modo la Fundación contribuirá al dicho Programa Cooperativo , hasta con la suma total de Dos Cientos Cincuenta Mil Dólares ( $250,000 ) moneda
americana, y la República contribuirá hasta con la suma total de Ciento Cincuenta Mil Quetzales (Q150,000) . La República continuará proporcionando a la Fundación y proporcionará al "Servicio", el local, el equipo , el mobiliario y cualesquiera otras facilidades para el buen funcionamiento de la oficina , y además , material, equipo y utensilios necesarios que convenientemente pueda suministrar para el desarrollo del Programa.
8. Los fondos abonados o que deban abonarse en la cuenta del "Servicio" por las partes contratantes, estarán disponibles para el desarrollo del Programa Cooperativo Educacional mientras está en vigor este Convenio. Los intereses , si los hubiere, serán utilizados en el mismo sentido . El Ministro de Educación Pública y el Repre-

Oct. 23, 1945 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- May 6, 1947
sentante Especial de la Fundación determinarán, de mutuo acuerdo , el destino que deba darse a los fondos de las cuentas del "Servicio" no invertidos al término de éste Convenio. Los libros y registros del "Servicio" se revisarán en las fechas y en la forma que se acuerden entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación .
9. En vista de que algunas compras de implementos y materiales tendrán que hacerse en los Estados Unidos de América, el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación, podrán disponer que, de los abonos que habría de hacer la Fundación a la cuenta del "Servicio" , se reserven las cantidades destinadas al pago de dichas compras, y si hubieren saldos de estas cantidades, éstos serán depositados en la cuenta del "Servicio", en cualquier tiempo, mediante acuerdo mutuo entre el Ministro de Educación Pública y el Representante Especial de la Fundación .
10. El "Servicio" estará exento de cualquier contribución, impuesto, derecho , cargo, tributo y derechos de aduana, ya sean nacionales , departamentales, provinciales, o municipales, y de todo requerimiento para licencias . El " Servicio" y su personal oficial, en ejercicio de sus funciones , tambien gozarán de los derechos y concesiones de que disfruten las diversas dependencias de la República. Tales derechos y concesiones podrán consistir en franquicia postal, telegráfica y telefónica, el derecho a ciertas tarifas especiales concedidas a las dependencias de la República por empresas particulares de servicio marítimo , ferrocarrilero , aéreo , telegráfico , telefónico, etc. La República aceptará y reconocerá a la Fundación como una agencia del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, y así mismo , la Fundación gozará entre otras cosas, de todas las exenciones, e inmunidades enumeradas, así como de los derechos y concesiones ya establecidos en el presente Convenio. El personal de la Fundación, de nacionalidad norteamericana, estará exento del pago de todo impuesto sobre la renta y descuentos destinados al seguro social sobre rentas sujetas a impuestos de carácter semejante a los del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos. Tales funcionarios estarán también exentos del pago de derechos aduaneros y otros impuestos sobre sus efectos personales y sobre equipos y suministros importados o exportados para su propio uso.
11. Todo derecho, poder o responsabilidad que en virtud de este Convenio adquieran el Ministro de Educación Pública o el Representante Especial de la Fundación, puede ser delegado por cada uno de ellos en sus representantes legales, siempre que estos representantes sean juzgados idóneos por la otra parte.
12. El Organismo Ejecutivo de la República tomará las medidas necesarias para que se emitan las leyes, decretos, órdenes y resoluciones indispensables al cumplimiento de los términos de este Convenio , el cual estará en vigor, por lo menos , hasta el treinta de junio de mil novecientos cuarenta y ocho . Su vigencia caducará en cualquier tiempo después del treinta de junio de mil novecientos cuarenta y ocho, mediante denuncia de una de las partes , la cual deberá presentarse por escrito a la otra parte, con anticipación no menor de sesenta días .
68706-52- PT. III- 90

4027

4028

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes contratantes suscriben este Convenio por medio de sus representantes autorizados, en los idiomas inglés y español , en la ciudad de Guatemala, República de Guatemala, C. A. el día veintitrés de Octubre de mil novecientos cuarenta y cinco.
POR LA REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA M M AVILA A
Ministro de Educación Pública
POR INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC. KENNETH HOLLAND Presidente

62 STAT. ] HAITI- FOOD PRODUCTION-JUNE 25, 29, 1948

4029

Agreement between the United States of America and Haiti respecting a cooperative food production program in Haiti, modifying and extending the agreement of August 28, 1944 , as modified and extended . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Port-au-Prince June 25 and 29 , 1948; entered into force June 30 , 1948.

June 25and 29, 1948 [T. I. A. 8. 2075]

The American Ambassador to the Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs

No. 711 EXCELLENCY:

AMERICAN EMBASSY, Port-au-Prince, Haiti, June 25, 1948.

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Government of Haiti and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, dated August 28, 1944 , as later modified and extended , which pro- 39A6nt4e6, p3p9. 73955.3, 3961, vided for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative pro-

gram of agriculture in Haiti . I also refer to Your Excellency's note of June 24, 1948 [ ] suggesting the consideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.

As Your Excellency knows , the agreement of August 28, 1944 , as amended, provides that the cooperative program of agriculture will terminate on June 30 , 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my

Ante, p. 3950.

Government agrees with the Government of Haiti that an extension of such program would be desirable . I have been advised by the

Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative

program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1948 , through June 30 , 1949. It would be understood that, during such period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $ 100,000.00 United States currency to the Service Cooperatif Inter-Americain de Production

Agricole for use in carrying out project activities of the program on

condition that your Government would contribute to the Service for the same purpose the sum of at least 1,500,000 Gourdes ($300,000.00) . The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available an amount not exceeding $ 137,012.00 United States currency to be retained by the Institute , and not deposited to the account of the Service , for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Food Supply Field Staff who are maintained by the Institute in Haiti. The amounts referred to would be in addition to
the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .

1 Not printed.

4030

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Entry into force.

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government , I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Institute of Inter-American Affairs .
The Government of the United States of America will consider the
present Note and your reply Note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments which shall come into force on the date of signature ['] of an Agreement by the Haitian Secretary of State for Agriculture and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above-mentioned technical details .
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
HAROLD H. TITTMANN, American Ambassador.

His Excellency EDMÉE MANIGAT , Secretariat of State for Foreign Affairs, Port-au-Prince.

The Haitian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

SECRÉTAIRERIE D'ETAT DES
RELATIONS EXTÉRIEURES
No. SG/A-3:1.326

RÉPUBLIQUE D'HAÏTI Port-au-Prince, le 29 Juin 1948.

MONSIEUR L'AMBASSADEUR,

J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception à Votre Excellence de sa lettre en date du 25 courant, No. 711 , relative au renouvellement de l'accord du 28 août 1944 pour une période d'une année finissant le 30 août 1949 .

J'ai noté que les détails techniques dudit accord à conclure entre l'Institut des Affaires Inter-américaines et le Gouvernement haitien

devront être discutés par les fonctionnaires compétents des deux organismes .
Il m'est agréable d'informer Votre Excellence que les bases ci-dessous énumérées :

a) contribution du Gouvernement haitien : $ 300.000.00;

b)

de l'Institut

: 100.000.00

outre une valeur de $ 137.012.00 destinée au paiement des salaires et autres frais des membres du personnel de la Food Supply sont acceptées par le Gouvernement de la République .
1 June 30, 1948.

62 STAT. ] HAITI-FOOD PRODUCTION-JUNE 25, 29, 1948
Je saisis cette occasion pour renouveler à Votre Excellence , Monsieur l'Ambassadeur , l'assurance de ma haute considération.
EDMÉE MANIGAT
Son Excellence Monsieur HAROLD H. TITTMANN , Ambassadeur Extraordinaire et Plénipotentiaire des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Port-au-Prince.

4031

Translation

MINISTRY OF STATE FOR
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
No. SG/A-3:1.326 MR . AMBASSADOR :

REPUBLIC OF HAITI Port-au-Prince, June 29, 1948.

I have the honor to acknowledge to Your Excellency the receipt of your letter No. 711 , dated the 25th of this month, concerning the renewal of the Agreement of August 28 , 1944 , for a period of one year ending on August 30, 1949.[']
I have noted that technical details of the said Agreement to be concluded between the Institute of Inter-American Affairs and the Haitian Government must be discussed by the competent officials of the two bodies .

I have the pleasure of informing Your Excellency that the bases shown below:

Ante, p. 4029. Ante, p. 3953,

a) share of the Haitian Government: $300,000.00

66

b)

of the Institute

: $100,000.00

in addition to an amount of $ 137,012.00 , intended for the payment of salaries and other expenses of the personnel of the Food Supply, are accepted by the Government of the Republic.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency , Mr. Ambassador, the assurance of my high consideration .

EDMÉE MANIGAT

His Excellency Mr. HAROLD H. TITTMANN , Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Port-au-Prince.

1 The correct date is June 30, 1949.

4032

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

June 29 1a9n4d8 July 10, [T. I. A. S. 2076]

Agreement between the United States ofAmerica and Guatemala respecting a cooperative educational program in Guatemala, modifying and extending the agreement of August 12, 1944, as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Guatemala June 29 and July 10, 1948; entered into force July 11 , 1948, operative retroactively from June 30, 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Guatemalan Minister for Foreign

No. 90. EXCELLENCY :

Affairs GUATEMALA, June 29, 1948.

Ante , pp. 4011 , 4019.

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement between the Republic of Guatemala and the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc., dated August 12 , 1944, as later modified and extended, which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing cooperative educational program in Guatemala. I also refer to the note of April 16, 1948, [1] in which the Ambassador of Guatemala tothe United States of America requested the Secretary of State of my Government to arrange, if possible, for the extension of that Agreement .
In accordance with legislation enacted during 1947 by the Congress and approved by the President of the United States all of the property, funds, functions, personnel, liabilities, and restrictions of the

Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , were transferred to The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate instrumentality

of the United States created by such legislative action. Consequently, the participation by the United States in the cooperative education program is now being effectuated through The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs.

Ante, p. 4011;

As Your Excellency knows, the agreement of August 12, 1944, provides that the cooperative education program will terminate on July 30, 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both

governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Guatemala that an extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department

of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1948, through June 30, 1949. It would be understood that, during such period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $20,000 United States Currency to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educacion for use in

carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute directly to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of Q80,000, in addition to the sum of not less than

Q40,500 which the Republic in its regular budget will expend on T
1' Not printed.

June 29, 1948 62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION PROGRAM- July 10, 1948

4033

educational activities closely related to the program of the Servicio. The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available an amount not exceeding $60,000 United States Currency to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Education Division Field Staff, who are maintained by the Institute in Guatemala. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program.

If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the ex-

tension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Public Education and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two governments, which shall come into force

on the date of signature [ ¹ ] of an agreement by the Minister of Public Education of Guatemala and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs embodying the above mentioned technical details .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

His Excellency Licenciado ENRIQUE MUÑOZ MEANY, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Guatemala.

EDWIN J. KYLE

Entry into force.

The Guatemalan Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA SECCION DIPLOMATICA

360.E. (73.0)

GUATEMALA, 10 de julio de 1948.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Tengo el honor de referirme a la atenta nota de Vuestra Excelencia número 90, de fecha 29 de junio recién pasado, relacionada con la prórroga, por un año, del Programa Cooperativo Educacional que se ha desarrollado en el país, de conformidad con el convenio suscrito por el Ministro de Educación Pública, en representación del Gobierno de Guatemala, y por el Representante de la Fundación Educacional Interamericana de los Estados Unidos, y la ampliación del mismo, fechadas el 12 de agosto de 1944 y el 23 de octubre de 1945 , respectivamente.

1 ¹ July 11, 1948.

4034

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Me complace manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de Guatemala está de acuerdo en que el mencionado programa, cuyos beneficios han sido tan importantes, se prorrogue por un año, del 30 de junio de 1948 al 30 de junio de 1949, en las siguientes condiciones: durante el período de prórroga el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos contribuirá con $20.000 moneda de los Estados Unidos para el Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación que se emplearán
desarrollar las actividades proyectadas del programa en el entendido de que el Gobierno de Guatemala contribuirá directamente al Servicio, para los mismos fines, con la suma de $80.000, además de una cantidad no menor de $40.500 que el Gobierno de Guatemala tomará de su presupuesto general y que invertirá en actividades educativas estrechamente relacionadas con el programa. El
Instituto estará dispuesto a proporcionar, durante la prórroga, una suma que no pasará de $60.000 moneda de los Estados Unidos que será retenida por dicho organismo y que no se depositará a la cuenta del Servicio, para el pago de sueldos y otros gastos de los miembros del personal de la División del Instituto que se establezcan en la República. Las sumas mencionadas serían adicionales a las establecidas en el presente convenio básico como contribución de las partes para el desarrollo del programa.
Es entendido que la presente nota y la atenta comunicación de Vuestra Excelencia número 90, de fecha 29 de junio recién pasado perfeccionan el convenio entre los Gobiernos de Guatemala y de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica para la prórroga del Programa
Cooperativo Educacional en Guatemala por un año, contado a partir del 30 de junio de 1948, que entrará en vigor en la fecha de la firma de un convenio por el Ministro de Educación Pública de Guatemala y un Representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos que comprenda los detalles técnicos a que se ha hecho referencia.
Me es muy grato expresar al ilustrado Gobierno de los Estados Unidos, por el digno medio de Vuestra Excelencia, el agradecimiento de mi Gobierno por esta importante colaboración en el campo educativo .
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración,
E. MUÑOZ MEANY. Excelentísimo señor Doctor EDWIN J. KYLE
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América, Ciudad.

Ante, p. 4032.

Translation
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA DIPLOMATIC SECTION

360.E. (73.0)

GUATEMALA, July 10, 1948.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's courteous note number 90 of June 29 last, in respect to the extension, for the period

June 29, 1948
62 STAT. ] GUATEMALA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION PROGRAMJuly 10, 1948

4035

of one year, of the Cooperative Educational Program which has been put into effect in the country , in conformity with the agreement signed by the Minister of Public Education, representing the Government of Guatemala, and the Representative of the Inter- American Educational Foundation of the United States, and also to the expansion of said program, dated respectively August 12, 1944 and October 23, 1945 .

It gives me great pleasure to inform Your Excellency that the Government of Guatemala agrees that the aforementioned program, which has been so highly beneficial, should be extended for one year, from June 30, 1948 to June 30, 1949 , under the following conditions : during the period of extension, the Institute of Inter-American Affairs will contribute $20,000 U. S. Cy. to the Inter-American Cooperative Education Service, this sum to be used for the activities contemplated in the program, it being understood that the Government of Guatemala will make a direct contribution to the Service , for the same purposes, of $80,000, in addition to a sum of not less than $40,500 which the Government of Guatemala will draw from its general budget and which will be employed in educational activities closely associated with the program. The Institute will be prepared to provide, during the period of extension, a sum not in excess of $ 60,000 U.S. Cy. , which will be held by said organization and not deposited to the account of the Service, to cover salaries and other expenses of the personnel of the Division of the Institute who are to work in the Republic. The aforementioned sums will be in addition to those provided under the present basic agreement as a contribution from the parties for the execution of the program .
It is understood that the present note and Your Excellency's communication number 90 of June 29 last, constitute the agreement between the Governments of Guatemala and of the United States of America on the extension of the Cooperative Educational Program in Guatemala for one year, beginning on June 30, 1948 , which will become effective on the date that an agreement is signed between the Minister of Public Education of Guatemala and a Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs containing the technical details to which reference has been made.

I take great pleasure in expressing to the Government of the United States, through Your Excellency, the appreciation of my Government for such an important act of collaboration in the educational field.
I avail myself of the opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

His Excellency Doctor EDWIN J. KYLE

E. MUÑOZ MEANY.

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the United States of America, City.

Ante, pp. 4011, 4019. Ante, p. 4032,

4036

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

June 28, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 2097]

Agreement between the United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and France respecting machinery of control in Austria. Signed at Vienna June 28, 1946; entered into force June 28, 1946.
ALLIED COMMISSION FOR AUSTRIA

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE UNITED KING. DOM, THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC ON THE MACHINERY OF CONTROL IN AUSTRIA

The Governments of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the French Republic (hereinafter called the Four Powers) ;
In view of the declaration issued at Moscow on 1st November,
1943 , [ ] in the name of the Governments of the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics , whereby the three Governments announced their agreement that Austria should be liberated from German domination, and declared that they wished to see reestablished a free and independ ent Austria, and in view of the subsequent declaration issued at Algiers on 16th November, 1943 by the French Committee of National Liberation concerning the independence of Austria;
Considering it necessary, in view of the establishment, as a result of free elections held in Austria on 25th November, 1945, of an Austrian Government recognized by the Four Powers , to redefine the nature and extent of the authority of the Austrian Government and of the functions of the Allied organization and forces in Austria and thereby to give effect to Article 14 of the Agreement signed in the European Advisory Commission on 4th July, 1945 ; [*] Have agreed as follows:-
Article 1
Authority of Austrian Government; The authority of the Austrian Government shall extend fully reservations.
throughout Austria, subject only to the following reservations:-
(a) The Austrian Government and all subordinate Austrian authorities shall carry out such directions as they may receive from the Allied Commission ;
(b) In regard to the matters specified in Article 5 below neither the Austrian Government nor any subordinate Austrian authroity shall take action without the prior written consent of the Allied Commission.
1 Department of State Bulletin, Nov. 6, 1943, p. 310. · Not printed.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946

4037

Article 2 (a) The Allied organization in Austria shall consist of

Allied organization.

(i) an Allied Council, consisting of four High Commissioners, one appointed by each of the Four Powers ;
(ii) an Executive Committee, consisting of one high ranking representative of each of the High Commissioners ;
(iii) Staffs appointed respectively by the Four Powers, the whole organization being known as the Allied Commission for Austria.

(b)

(i) The authority of the Allied Commission in matters

affecting Austria as a whole shall be exercised by the Allied Council or the Executive Committee or the

Staffs appointed by the Four Powers when acting jointly .

(ii) The High Commissioners shall within their respective zones ensure the execution of the decisions of the

Allied Commission and supervise the execution of the directions of the central Austrian authorities .

(iii) The High Commissioners shall also ensure within their respective zones that the actions of the Austrian provincial authorities deriving from their autonomous functions do not conflict with the policy of the Allied Commission.

(c)

The Allied Commission shall act only through the Austrian

Action by Allied Commission, limita-

Government or other appropriate Austrian authorities except :- tion; exceptions.

(i) to maintain law and order if the Austrian authorities are unable to do so ;

(ii) if the Austrian Government or other appropriate Austrian authorities do not carry out directions received from the Allied Commission ;
(iii) where, in the case of any of the subjects detailed in Article 5 below, the Allied Commission acts directly.

(d) In the absence of action by the Allied Council , the four several High Commissioners may act independently in their respective zones in any matter covered by subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of

Independent action by High Commission-
ers.

paragraph (c) of this Article and by Article 5, and in any

matter in respect of which power is conferred on them by the

agreement to be made under Article 8 (a) of this agreement. Post, p. 4040.

(e) Forces of occupation furnished by the Four Powers will be Forces of occupation.
stationed in the respective zones of occupation in Austria and

Vienna as defined in the Agreement on Zones of Occupation

in Austria and the administration of the City of Vienna, signed

in the European

Advisory

Commission on 9th July, 1945.

61 Stat. , Pt. 3, p. 2679.

Decisions of the Allied Council which require implementation

by the forces of occupation will be implemented by the latter

in accordance with instructions from their respective High

Commissioners .

4038

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 3

Primary tasks of

Allied Commission .

The primary tasks of the Allied Commission for Austria shall be:

60 Stat. 1649.

(a) To ensure the enforcement in Austria of the provisions of the Declaration on the Defeat of Germany signed at Berlin on 5th June, 1945.

(b) To complete the separation of Austria from Germany, and to maintain the independent existence and integrity of the Austrian State, and pending the final definition of its frontiers to ensure respect for them as they were on 31st December, 1937;
(c) To assist the Austrian Government to recreate a sound and democratic national life based on an efficient administration, stable enconomic and financial conditions and respect for law and order ;

(d) To assist the freely elected Government of Austria to assume as quickly as possible full control of the affairs of state in Austria ;
(e) To ensure the institution of a progressive long-term educational program designed to eradicate all traces of Nazi ideology and to instill into Austrian youth democratic principles.

Article 4

Removal of certain restrictions.
Customs and travel control.

(a) In order to facilitate the full exercise of the Austrian Government's authority equally in all zones and to promote the economic unity of Austria, the Allied Council will from the date of signature of this Agreement ensure the removal of all remaining restrictions on the movement within Austria of persons, goods , or other traffic , except such as may be specifically prescribed by the Allied Council or required in frontier areas for the maintenance of effective control of international movements . The zonal boundaries will then have no other effect than as boundaries of the spheres of authority and responsibility of the respective High Commissioners and the location of occupation troops.
(b) The Austrian Government may organize a customs and frontier administration , and the Allied Commission will take steps as soon as practicable to transfer to it customs and travel control functions concerning Austria which do not interfere with the military needs of the occupation forces.

Article 5

Field of direct action by Commission.

The following are the matters in regard to which the Allied Com-

mission may act directly as provided in Article 2 (c) (iii) above:

(i) Demilitarization and disarmament (military, economic, industrial, technical , and scientific) ;

(ii) The protection and security of the Allied forces in Austria, and the fulfilment of their military needs in accordance with the Agreement to be negotiated under Article 8 (a).

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946
(iii) The protection, care, and restitution of property belonging to the Governments of any of the United Nations or their nationals :
(iv) The disposal of German property in accordance with the existing agreements between the Allies .
(v) The care and evacuation of, and exercise of judicial authority over prisoners of war and displaced persons :
(vi) The control of travel into and out of Austria until Austrian travel controls can be established .
(vii) (a) The tracing, arrest , and handing-over of any person wanted by one of the Four Powers or by the International Court for War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity.
(b) The tracing, arrest , and handing-over of any person wanted by other United Nations for the crimes specified in the preceding paragraph and included in the lists of the United Nations Commission for War Crimes . The Austrian Government will remain competent to try any other person accused of such crimes and coming within its jurisdiction, subject to the Allied Council's right of control over prosecution and punishment for such crimes.
Article 6

4039

(a) All legislative measures, as defined by the Allied Council, and trian legislationto

international agreements which the Austrian Government Allied Council.

wishes to make except agreements with one of the 4 Powers,

shall, before they take effect or are published in the State Gazette be submitted by the Austrian Government to the Allied Council . In the case of constitutional laws, the written

approval of the Allied Council is required , before any such law may be published and put into effect . In the case of all

other legislative measures and international agreements it

may be assumed that the Allied Council has given its approval if within thirty-one days of the time of receipt by the Allied

Commission it has not informed the Austrian Government

that it objects to a legislative measure or an international

agreement. Such legislative measure or international agreement may then be published and put into effect. The Austrian Government will inform the Allied Council of all international

agreements entered into with one or more of the 4 Powers.

(b)

The Allied Council may at any time inform the

Austrian

Disapproval of Austrian legislation by

Government or the appropriate Austrian authority of its dis- Allied Council.

approval of any of the Legislative measures or administrative

actions of the Government or of such authority, and may direct that the action in question shall be cancelled or amended .

4040

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 7

Diplomaticand consular relations of Aus- The Austrian Government is free to establish diplomatic and contrian Government.
sular relations with the Governments of the United Nations. The
establishment of diplomatic and consular relations with other Govern-
ments shall be subject to the prior approval of the Allied Council. Diplomatic Missions in Vienna shall have the right to communicate
directly with the Allied Council . Military Missions accredited to the Allied Council shall be withdrawn as soon as their respective
Governments establish diplomatic relations with the Austrian Govern-
ment, and in any case within two months of the signature of this agreement .

Article 8

Immunities of Allied Commission and occupation forces.

(a) A further agreement between the four Powers shall be drawn up and communicated to the Austrian Government as soon as

possible, and within three months of this day's date defining the immunities of the members of the Allied Commission

and of the forces in Austria of the Four Powers and the rights

they shall enjoy to ensure their security and protection and the fulfilment of their military needs :

60 Stat. 1649.

(b) Pending the conclusion of the further agreement required by Article 8 (a) the existing rights and immunities of members of the Allied Commission and of the forces in Austria of the Four Powers , deriving either from the Declaration on the Defeat of Germany or from the powers of a Commander-inChief in the field, shall remain unimpaired.

Article 9

Four-Power appointees.

(a) Members of the Allied Council, the Executive Committee and other staffs appointed by each of the Four Powers as part of the Allied Commission may be either civilian or military.

(b) Each of the Four Powers may appoint as its High Commissioner either the Commander-in-Chief of its forces in Austria or its diplomatic or political representative in Austria or such other official as it may care to nominate.
(c) Each High Commissioner may appoint a deputy to act for him in his absence.

Meetings of Allied Council.

(d) A High Commissioner may be assisted in the Allied Council by a political adviser and/or a military adviser who may be respectively the diplomatic or political representative of his Government in Vienna or the Commander-in-Chief of the forces in Austria of his Government .
(e) The Allied Council shall meet at least twice in each month or at the request of any member.

Article 10

Duties of Executive Committee.

(a) Members of the Executive Committee, shall, when necessary, attend meetings of the Allied Council ;

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL- CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946
(b) The Executive Committee shall act on behalf of the Allied Council in matters delegated to it by the Council ;
(c) The Executive Committee shall ensure that the decisions of the Allied Council and its own decisions are carried out;
(d) The Executive Committee shall coordinate the activities of the Staffs of the Allied Commission.
Article 11

4041

(a) The staffs of the Allied Commission in Vienna shall be organ- CoDmimvisisoinosn.of Allied

ized in Divisions matching one or more of the Austrian Minis-

tries or Departments with the addition of certain Divisions

not corresponding to any Austrian Ministry or Department . The List of Divisions is given in Annex I to this Agreement ;

Post, p. 4043.

this organization may be changed at any time by the Allied Council ;

(b) The Divisions shall maintain contact with the appropriate

Departments of the Austrian Government and shall take such action and issue such directions as are within the policy

approved by the Allied Council or the Executive Committee ;

(c) The Divisions shall report as necessary to the Executive Committee ;

(d) At the Head of each Division there shall be four Directors, one from each of the Four Powers, to be collectively known as the Directorate of that Division. Directors of Divisions or their representatives may attend meetings of the Allied Council or of the Executive Committee in which matters affecting the work of their Divisions are being discussed. The four officials acting as the head of each Division may appoint such temporary subcommittees as they deem desirable.

Article 12

The decisions of the Allied Council, Executive Committee, and other constituted bodies of the Allied Commission shall be unanimous.
The Chairmanship of the Allied Council, Executive Committee and Directorates shall be held in rotation.

Unanimity of decisions.
Rotation of Chair manship.

Article 13

The existing Inter-Allied Command in Vienna, formerly known as

Assumption of civil administration by

the Kommendatura, shall continue to act as the instrument of the Vienna Municipality.

Allied Commission for affairs concerning Vienna as a whole until its functions in connection with civil administration can be handed over

to the Vienna Municipality. These will be handed over progressively and as rapidly as possible. The form of supervision which will then be applied will be decided by the Allied Council. Meanwhile the Vienna Inter-Allied Command shall have the same relation to the

Municipal Administration of Vienna as the Allied Commission has

to the Austrian Government.

4042

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 14

Entry into force; duration .

The present Agreement shall come into operation as from this day's

date and shall remain in force until it is revised or abrogated by agree-

ment between the Four Powers . On the coming into effect of the

present Agreement the Agreement signed in the European Advisory

Commission on 4th July 1945 , shall be abrogated . The Four Powers

shall consult together not more than six months from this day's date with a view to its revision.

In witness whereof the present Agreement has been signed on behalf

of each of the Four Powers by its High Commissioner in Austria.

Authentic languages.

Done this twenty eighth day of June 1946 at Vienna in quadrupli-

cate in English, in French and in Russian each text being equally

authentic . A translation into German shall be agreed between the

four High Commissioners and communicated by them as soon as

possible to the Austrian Government .

For the Government of the United Kingdom
Lieutenant General J. S. STEELE

For the Government of the United States of America
General MARK W. CLARK

For the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
Colonel General V KURASOV

For the Government of the French Republic
General de Corps d'Armee M BÉTHOUART

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946

4043

ALLIED COMMISSION FOR AUSTRIA

ANNEX 1 TO THE AGREEMENT ON MACHINERY OF CONTROL IN AUSTRIA

List of the Divisions of the Allied Commission (See Article 11 (a) )

(a) Divisions each matching one or more Ministries or Departments of the

Austrian Government :-

Division

Austrian Departments

1. Internal Affairs
2. Political 3. Legal 4. Finance 5. Education 6. Social Administration 7. Economic
8. Transport and Communications

(Interior (Chancery (except Foreign Depart( ment)
Chancery (Foreign Department) Law and Justice Finance Public Education and Religious Affairs Social Administration
(Economic Planning and Property ( Control (Commerce and Reconstruction (Food (Agriculture and Forestry (Electrification and Power
Transportation

(b) Divisions not matching any Austrian Ministry or Department :9. Reparations, Deliveries and Restitution
10. Prisoners of War and Displaced Persons 11. Naval 12. Military 13. Air.

Ante, p. 4041.

4044

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

COMMISSION ALLIEE POUR L'AUTRICHE
Accord entre les Gouvernements du Royaume-Uni, des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de l'Union des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques et de la République Française sur le mécanisme de contrôle en Autriche
Les Gouvernements du Royaume-Uni de la Grande Bretagne et d'Irlande du Nord , des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, de l'Union des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques et le Gouvernement de la République Française (qui sont désignés par la suite dans ce document par l'expression "Les Quatre Puissances " ) :
Considérant la déclaration faite à Moscou le 1er Novembre 1943 , au nom des Gouvernements de Grande-Bretagne, des Etats-Unis et de l'Union des Républiques Socialistes Soviétiques par laquelle les trois Gouvernements ont fait connaitre leur accord sur le fait que l'Autriche devait être libérée de la domination allemande et ont déclaré qu'ils souhaitaient voir le rétablissement d'une Autriche libre et indépendante, et considérant la déclaration ultérieure faite à Alger le 16 Novembre 1943 par le Comité Français de Libération Nationale, relative à l'indépendance de l'Autriche :
Jugeant nécessaire, étant donné l'établissement , à la suite des élections libres qui ont eu lieu en Autriche , le 25 Novembre 1945, d'un Gouvernement Autrichien reconnu par les Quatre Puissances, de définir à nouveau la nature et l'étendue de l'autorité du Gouvernement Autrichien et des fonctions des organisations et des forces Alliées en Autriche, et par là de mettre en exécution l'article 14 de l'accord signé à la Commission Consultative Européenne le 4 Juillet 1945 , ont convenu ce qui suit:
Article 1
L'Autorité du Gouvernement Autrichien s'exercera pleinement sur l'ensemble du territoire de l'Autriche, sous les seules réserves suivantes:
(a) Le Gouvernement Autrichien et toutes les Autorités Autrichiennes qui lui sont subordonnées, exécuteront toutes les instructions qu'ils pourront recevoir de la Commission Alliée .
(b) En ce qui concerne les questions stipulées à l'article 5 cidessous , ni le Gouvernement Autrichien, ni aucune Autorité Autrichienne subordonnée ne prendra aucune mesure sans avoir obtenu au préalable, le consentement écrit de la Commission Alliée .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946

Article 2

(a)

L'organisation Alliée en Autriche comprendra:

(i) Un Conseil Allié, composé de quatre Hauts- Commissaires ; chacune des quatre Puissances désignant l'un d'entre eux.
(ii) Un Comité Exécutif composé d'un Représentant de grade élevé de chacun des Hauts-Commissaires ;

(iii) Des organismes accrédités respectivement par les quatre Puissances ,

l'ensemble de l'organisation étant connu sous le nom de Commission Alliée pour l'Autriche.

(b)

i) L'Autorité de la Commission Alliée pour les questions

affectant l'Autriche dans son ensemble sera exercée par le

Conseil Allié ou le Comité Exécutif ou les organismes

accrédités par les quatre Puissances lorsqu'ils agissent

conjointement .

(ii) Les Hauts-Commissaires devront assurer dans leurs zones respectives l'application des décisions de la Commission Alliée et contrôler l'exécution des directives des autorités

centrales autrichiennes.

(iii) Les Hauts-Commissaires devront également s'assurer dans leurs zones respectives que les actes des Autorités provinciales autrichiennes découlant de leurs fonctions au-
tonomes, ne sont pas contraires à la politique de la Commission Alliée .

(c)

La Commission Alliée n'agira que par l'intermédiaire du

Gouvernement Autrichien ou d'autres Autorités Autri-

chiennes qualifiées, sauf:

(i) pour maintenir l'ordre public si les Autorités Autrichiennes en sont incapables ;

(ii) si le Gouvernement Autrichien ou d'autres Autorités

Autrichiennes qualifiées n'exécutent pas les directives reçues de la Commission Alliée ;

(iii) dans le cas ou pour l'une quelconque des questions énumérées à l'article 5 ci-dessous , la Commission Alliée agit directement.

(d)

En l'absence d'une mesure prise par le Conseil Allié, les

quatre Hauts-Commissaires peuvent agir indépendamment dans

leurs zones respectives, dans l'un quelconque des cas visés par

les sous-paragraphes (i) et (ii ) du paragraphe (c) du présent

article et par l'article 5 et dans chaque cas pour lequel le pouvoir

leur en est donné en vertu de l'accord prévu par le paragraphe (b)

de l'article 8 du présent accord .

(e)

Les troupes d'occupation fournies par les quatre Puissances

seront stationnées dans leurs zones respectives d'occupation en

Autriche, et à Vienne, comme il a été précisé dans l'accord sur

les zones d'occupation en Autriche et l'administration de la ville

de Vienne, signé par la Commission Consultative Européenne

4045

4046

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

le 9 Juillet 1945. Les décisions du Conseil Allié dont l'exécution ne peut être confiée qu'aux troupes d'occupation , seront mises en application par ces dernières, conformément aux instructions de leurs Hauts-Commissaires respectifs.
Article 3
Les tâches essentielles de la Commission Alliée pour l'Autriche seront les suivantes:
(a) Assurer en Autriche l'application des clauses de la Déclaration sur la défaite de l'Allemagne, signée à Berlin , le 5 Juin 1946 .

(b) Achever la séparation de l'Autriche et de l'Allemagne et assurer l'intégrité et l'existence indépendante de l'Etat Autrichien, et, en attendant qu'elles soient définitivement fixées, assurer le respect des frontières telles qu'elles étaient à la date du 31 Décembre 1937.

(c) Aider le Gouvernement Autrichien a recréer une vie nationale démocratique et équilibrée, fondée sur une administration efficace, sur de stables conditions économiques et financières et sur le respect de l'ordre et de la loi.
(d) Aider le Gouvernement Autrichien librement élu à assurer le plus rapidement possible le plein contrôle des affaires de l'Etat en Autriche.
(e) Assurer l'établissement d'un programme d'éducation progressif et à longue échéance, destiné à extirper toute trace d'idéologie nazie et à inculquer des principes démocratiques à la jeunesse autrichienne.

Article 4

(a)

Afin de faciliter le plein exercice de l'autorité du Gouverne-

ment Autrichien uniformément dans toutes les zones et de favor-

iser l'unité économique de l'Autriche , le Conseil Allié assurera, à compter de la date de la signature de cet accord , la suppression des dernières restrictions au mouvement à l'intérieur de
l'Autriche, des personnes et des marchandises ou à toute autre circulation excepté celles de ces restrictions que le

Conseil Allié peut spécialement prescrire, ou celles qu'exige le maintien du Contrôle efficace des déplacements inter-

nationaux dans les régions frontalières . Les limites des

zones n'auront alors d'autre effet que de limiter les sphères

d'autorité et de responsabilité des Hauts-Commissaires.

respectifs et l'emplacement des troupes d'occupation .

(b)

Le Gouvernement Autrichien est autorisé à organiser une

administration douanière et frontalière et la Commission

Alliée prendra aussitôt que possible, des mesures pour lui

transférer celles des fonctions de contrôle de la douane et des

déplacements intéressant l'Autriche, qui n'affectent pas les besoins militaires des troupes d'occupation.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946

ARTICLE 5

La Commission pourra agir directement ainsi qu'il est prévu à l'article 2 (c) (iii) ci-dessus , dans les questions suivantes :

i) démilitarisation et désarmement (militaire , économique, industriel technique et scientifique) .
ii) protection et sécurité des forces alliées en Autriche et satisfaction de leurs besoins militaires, conformément à l'accord qui devra être négocié conformément au paragraphe (a) de l'article 8.
iii) protection, prise en charge et restitution des biens appartenant au Gouvernement de l'une quelconque des. Nations-Unies ou à ses ressortissants .

iv) disposition des biens allemands conformément aux accords existant entre les Alliés .

v) prise en charge, évacuation et exercice de la justice, en ce qui concerne les prisonniers de guerre et les personnes déplacées.
vi) contrôle de l'entrée et de la sortie de l'Autriche, jusqu'à ce qu'un contrôle autrichien des voyages soit établi.
vii)

a) la recherche, l'arrestation , la livraison de toute personne réclamée par l'une quelconque des quatre Puissances ou par le Tribunal International pour crime de guerre ou pour crime contre l'humanité.

b) la recherche, l'arrestation , la livraison de toute personne réclamée par d'autres Nations-Unies pour les crimes prévus à l'alinéa ci-dessus et inscrite sur la liste de la Commission des Nations-Unies pour les crimes de guerre.

Article 6

Le Gouvernement Autrichien restera compétent pour juger toute autre personne accusée de tels crimes et relevant de sa juridiction , sous réserve du droit, pour le Conseil Allié, de contrôler la poursuite et la condamnation de ces crimes.

(a) Toutes les mesures législatives , telles qu'elles sont définies par le Conseil Allié, et les accords internationaux que le Gouvernement Autrichien désire conclure, à l'exception des accords conclus avec l'une des quatre Puissances, devront, avant leur mise en vigueur ou leur publication au Bulletin Officiel, être soumis par le Gouvernement Autrichien au Conseil Allié .
Lorsqu'il s'agit de lois constitutionnelles, l'approbation écrite du Conseil Allié est obligatoire avant qu'aucune de ces lois puisse être publiée et être mise en vigueur.
Pour toutes les autres mesures législatives et pour les accords internationaux, le Conseil Allié sera réputé avoir donné son approbation si, dans un délai de 31 jours à dater de leur réception par la

4047

4048

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
Commission Alliée, celle-ci n'a pas fait connaitre au Gouvernement Autrichien qu'elle a des objections à faire valoir à l'encontre de la mesure législative ou de l'accord international ladite mesure législative ou ledit accord international pourra alors être publié et être mis en vigueur.
Le Gouvernement Autrichien devra porter à la connaissance du Conseil Allié tous les accords internationaux conclus avec l'une ou plusieurs des quatre Puissances.
(b) Le Conseil Allié peut, à tout moment, informer le Gouvernement Autrichien ou les Autorités Autrichiennes compétentes qu'il désapprouve l'une des mesures législatives ou administratives prises par le Gouvernement ou par ces Autorités et peut ordonner que la mesure en question soit rapportée ou amendée.
Article 7
Le Gouvernement Autrichien est libre de nouer des relations diplomatiques et consulaires avec les Gouvernements des Nations-Unies. L'établissement de relations diplomatiques et consulaires avec les autres Gouvernements sera soumis à l'approbation préalable du Conseil Allié. Les Missions diplomatiques à Vienne auront le droit de communiquer directement avec le Conseil Allié. Les Missions accréditées auprès du Conseil Allié seront retirées aussitôt que leurs Gouvernements respectifs auront établi des relations diplomatiques avec le Gouvernement Autrichien et, en tout cas, dans un délai de deux mois à compter de la date de la signature de cet accord.
Article 8
(a) Un nouvel accord entre les quatre Puissances sera rédigé et communiqué au Gouvernement Autrichien aussitôt que possible et dans un délai maximum de trois mois à compter de ce jour. Il définira les immunités des Membres de la Commission Alliée et des troupes des quatre Puissances en Autriche, ainsi que les droits dont ils jouiront pour assurer leur sécurité et leur protection et la satisfaction de leurs besoins militaires.
(b) En attendant la conclusion de l'accord à venir prévu par le paragraphe (a) de l'article 8 , les droits et immunités actuels des Membres de la Commission Alliée et des troupes des quatre Puissances en Autriche, institués soit par la Déclaration sur la défaite de l'Allemagne, soit en vertu des pouvoirs d'un Commandant en Chef en campagne , demeureront sans changement.
Article 9
(a) Les Membres du Conseil Allié, du Comité Exécutif et des autres organismes désignés par chacune des quatre Puissances pour faire partie de la Commission Alliée, peuvent être soit civils, soit militaires .
(b) Chacune des quatre Puissances peut désigner comme HautCommissaire soit le Commandant en Chef de ses Forces en Autriche, soit son représentant diplomatique ou politique en Autriche, soit tout autre fonctionnaire à son choix.

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946
(c) Chaque Haut-Commissaire peut désigner un adjoint pour le supléer en son absence.
(d) Un Haut-Commissaire peut être assisté au Conseil Allié par un Conseiller Politique et/ou un Conseiller Militaire qui peuvent respectivement être le représentant politique ou diplomatique de son Gouvernement à Vienne, ou le Commandant en Chef des Forces de son Gouvernement en Autriche .
(e) Le Conseil Allié se réunira au moins deux fois par mois ou sur la demande de l'un de ses Membres .
Article 10
(a) Les Membres du Comité Exécutif assisteront, lorsqu'il est nécessaire, aux séances du Conseil Allié.
(b) Le Comité Exécutif statuera au nom du Conseil Allié dans les affaires qui lui sont confiées par le Conseil Allié.
(c) Le Comité Exécutif assurera l'exécution des décisions du Conseil Allié et de ses propres décisions .
(d) Le Comité Exécutif coordonnera les activités des organismes de la Commission Alliée.
Article 11
(a) Les organismes de la Commission Alliée seront constitués en Divisions, correspondant à un ou plusieurs Ministères ou Départements Autrichiens et comprenant en outre certaines divisions ne correspondant à aucun Ministère ou département autrichien . La liste des divisions est donnée à l'annexe 1 de cet accord ; cette organisation peut être modifiée à tout moment par le Conseil Allié .
(b) Les divisions entretiendront des rapports avec les départements qualifiés du Gouvernement Autrichien ; elles prendront toutes mesures et donneront toutes instructions dans le cadre de la politique arrêtée par le Conseil Allié ou par le Comité Exécutif.
(c) Les Divisions feront rapport, s'il y a lieu , au Comité Exécutif. (d) A la tête de chaque Division, se trouveront quatre Directeurs
à raison d'un pour chacune des quatre Puissances, dont la réunion portera le nom de Directoire de la Division. Les Directeurs des Divisions ou leurs Représentants, peuvent assister aux réunions du Conseil Allié et du Comité Exécutif au cours desquelles les questions intéressant le travail de leurs Divisions sont discutées . Les quatre personnalités qui remplissent les fonctions de Chef de chaque Division peuvent créer tel ou tel sous-comité provisoire selon qu'ils l'estiment désirable . Article 12
Les décisions du Conseil Allié, du Comité Exécutif et des autres organismes constitués , de la Commission Alliée, seront prises à l'unanimité.
La présidence du Conseil Allié, du Comité Exécutif et des Directoires sera assurée par roulement .

4049

4050

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Article 13

Le Commandement Intérallié actuel de Vienne, précédemment connu sous le nom de Kommandantur, continuera à statuer en tant qu'organe d'exécution de la Commission Alliée, pour les affaires intéressant Vienne, dans son ensemble, jusqu'à ce que les fonctions qu'il exerce en matière d'administration civile puissent être remises à la municipalité de Vienne . Ces fonctions seront remises progressivement et aussi rapidement que possible . La nature du contrôle qui sera alors exercé fera l'objet d'une décision du Conseil Allié. Entre temps , le Commandement intérallié de Vienne aura, vis à vis de l'administration municipale de Vienne , le même rôle que la Commission Alliée vis à vis du Gouvernement Autrichien.
ARTICLE 14

Le présent accord entrera en vigueur à la date de ce jour et restera en vigueur jusqu'à sa révision ou jusqu'à son abrogation d'un commun accord entre les quatre Puissances . Au moment de sa mise en application, l'accord actuel signé à la Commission Consultative Européenne, le 4 Juillet 1945 sera abrogé . Dans un délai maximum de 6 mois à compter de ce jour , les quatre Puissances se consulteront en vue de sa révision .
En foi de quoi le présent accord a été signé au nom de chacune des quatre Puissances et par son Haut-Commissaire en Autriche.
Fait le, 28 juin 1946 à Vienne, en quatre exemplaires , en anglais , français et russe, chaque texte ayant la même valeur authentique. Une traduction en allemand sera approuvée par les quatre HautsCommissaires et communiquée par leurs soins aussitôt que possible au Gouvernement Autrichien .

Pr. le Gouvernement du Royaume- Uni Lieutenant-Général J. S. STEELE.

Pr. le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique
Général MARK W. CLARK .

Pr. le Gouvernement de l'Union des Républiques
Socialistes- Soviétiques
Colonel Général
V KURASOV

Pr. le Gouvernement de la
République Française
Général de Corps d'Armée M BÉTHOUART

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946

4051

ANNEXE I à l'ACCORD SUR LE MECANISME DE CONTROLE EN AUTRICHE

Liste des Divisions de la Commission Alliée (Voir article 11 (a)

(a) Divisions correspondant à un ou plusieurs Ministères ou Départements du Gouvernement Autrichien .

Division 1. Affaires Intérieures 2. Politique 3. Justice 4. Finances 5. Education 6. Affaires Sociales 7. Economie
8. Transports et Communications

Départements Autrichiens (Intérieur ( Chancellerie (sauf le département (des Affaires Etrangères)
Chancellerie (Département des Affaires Etrangères) . Législation et Justice Finances
Instruction publique et Cultes Affaires Sociales
(Planification économique et Protec(tion des Biens (Commerce et Reconstruction (Ravitaillement (Agriculture et Forêts ( Electrification et Energie. Transports

(b) Divisions ne correspondant à aucun Ministère ou département autrichien .

9. Réparations, restitutions et contrôle des Biens 10. P.D.R 11. Marine 12. Guerre 13. Air

68706-52--PT. III- 91

4052

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

   

      ,   ,          
 .
     ,       ,        /      / ,
  ,    1 -   1943 .      ,         ,      "       ,           ,          ,     ,        16  1943    -
  ,   ,   ,  
  ,    25  1945  ,   , 
  ,         ,                 .14  ,   "  4  1945  ,

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL -CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946
  :
 1 ,
  :         ,     :
 /            .        ;
 /    ,   .5  ,    ,   -              .
 2 .
 /        :
1/   ,      ,         ;
(1/   ,             ,
[ /  ,      .       ,      .
6/ 1 /   ,     ,             ,    ,   .
 /       IC  30      ,           .

4053

4054

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

III/         ,      ,      ,      .

 /              ,  :
1 /     ,    ,         ;
 /            ,     ,
 /    ,     5 , C     .

 / .     -

  ,    -

       ,

   ,   1/

  /   /   

 5 ,  

  ,        ,     

 8 / /   .

 /   ,    ,           ,  -
          ,      9  1945  .    ,     ,         -

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946
   .
 3 ,
         :
 /          ,    5  1945  ,
/      ,        ,             31  1937  ;
/           ,     ,           ,
 /      ,                ;
 /     
    ,              .
 4 ,
 / 3                  ,    ,       ,     «       ,     , 

4055

4056

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
  ,                    . 30                 -
  .  /    
        ,       ,         ,          .
 5 .
   ,        ,      .2 /c / , /m / s
1.    /  ,  ,  ,    / .
2.                 ,      .8 /3 / .
3.  ,     ,    -    "      .
4.          -
5.  ,              .

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERALCONTROL IN AUSTRIA- JUNE 28, 1946
6.   "       tex nop ,          .
7.  /  ,      ,                .
5 /  ,      ,   '    ,       ,       "      .
         ,          ,               .
 6 ,
 /    ,      ,    ,    
 ,         ,  ,  ,            ,       .      ,      ,             .
           ,      ,   -

4057

4058

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
                 ,           .
              .          ,       pex  .
6 /                               ,      ,         .
 7
         '  .              Co .             .
  ,     ,    ,           ,     ,         .
 8 ,
 /     

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL- CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946

4059

         3  ,      ,          
    ,                .
 /     ,   8 / 3 / ,               ,           ,    .
 9 .
 /    ,      ,     pex      ,      ,
 /                          ,          ;
c / "               ;
 /       Coeere       ,    ,                opy      ,
e /                9 .

68706-52 -- . III- -92

4060

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
 10 .
 /      ,    ,     ,
6 /           ,    ;
 /             ;
 /         .
 11 ,
 /           ,         ,     ,          .      1    .           ;
6 /           ,            ,       ,
 /         ;
 /         ,        ,        .            

62 STAT. ] MULTILATERAL-CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946

4061

    ,     ,     .    ,  ,     ,  ,     «,    .
 12 ,
   ,            .
    ,         .
 13 ,
    «   ,     ,           ,  .   ,    ,    ,     ,     . .       ,   , gee .      ,    .   ivie           .  ,         .
 14 ,
                         .       ,  ,      4  1945  ,   .  

4062

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

   ,   6            .
   ,                .

    1946  

       ,

    ,   

  .       
      

   .

    

35   -


   -
Toa 

   -




 -   - 



 

.. 

..



 .  . lack
WC
[3] [2]Thank

..
Aletheach []

1 V Kurasov. 2 J. S. Steele. 3 Mark W. Clark . 4 M Béthouart .

62 STAT.] MULTILATERAL-CONTROL IN AUSTRIA-JUNE 28, 1946

   

 1     pere   .

    /. 11 /9 / .

 /  ,           :



 

1.  
2.  3.  4.  5.   6.   7. 
8.   

  · . /   .  / .
 .  / . . /   

     
         
      


6 /  ,      

9.  ,    10.     11.  -  12.  13.  - 

4063

4064

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

April 19, 1947 [T. I. A. S. 2109]

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting coal exports from the three Western Zones of Germany. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Moscow April 19, 1947 ; entered into force April 19, 1947.

The Secretary of State to the French Minister of Foreign Affairs

DELEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

DEAR MONSIEUR BIDAULT ,

[Moscow] April 19th, 1947

In agreement with the United Kingdom Secretary of State for

Foreign Affairs [ ] I send you herewith the proposals for a sliding scale for coal exports from the three Western Zones as at present constituted which have been prepared as a result of conversations which have taken place during the past few days between your representatives and those of Mr. Bevin and myself.

In my conversation with the President of the Republic , M. Auriol , I gave him assurance of the desire of my Government to make every

effort to assist France in meeting her requirements for coal. We have now made the fullest efforts possible to meet the requirements for coal of France and the countries represented in the European

Coal Organization , bearing in mind the necessity for rehabilitating the peaceful industries of Germany with the object of bringing the German economy into balance as quickly as possible in accordance with the American and British programs.

I hope to learn that you accept the proposals made at the production levels shown in the sliding scale. It is the intention that the percentages of the sliding scale shall apply for the second half of 1947.

At the end of the year the position can be examined again in the light of the conditions then prevailing.
Faithfully yours, G C MARSHALL
Monsieur GEORGES BIDAULT

Minister of Foreign Affairs of the French Republic

1 For similar exchange of notes between the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs (Bevin) and the French Minister of Foreign Affairs (Bidault) see British Treaty Series No. 53 (1947) .

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-COAL EXPORTS FROM GERMANY-APR. 19, 1947

Enclosure to Secretary of State's letter to M. Bidault ; Dated
19th April, 1947

PROJECTED SCALE OF EXPORT AND INTERNAL ALLOCATION OF COAL FOR THE THREE WESTERN ZONES OF GERMANY, IN RELATION TO FUTURE LEVEL OF COAL PRODUCTION .
(Thousands of metric tons).

Daily Output Ruhr-Aachen
plus Saar

Percent Allocated to Export

Estimated Monthly Export Tonnage

Estimated
Monthly Internal Tonnage

(net merchantable coal, excluding raw brown coal, in terms of hard coal equivalent).

280

21.0

1187

4465

290

21.5

1262

4608

300

21.5

1309

4778

310

22.0

1387

4917

320

22. 5

1467

5055

330

22.5

1516

5223

340

23. 0

1602

5365

350

23. 5

1691

5505

360

24. 0

1782

5642

370

25. 0

1913

5739

Notes: 1. Monthly figures are for calendar months of 25 working days. 2. Exports represent total exports (including exports to Austria, to countries belonging to the European Coal Organisation and bunker coal) . 3. It is anticipated that allocations will be made quarterly with later adjustments as required. Assistance may be required from the importing countries to move the contemplated tonnages of export coal.

The French Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Secretary of State

LE MINISTRE

AFFAIRES ÉTRANGÈRES

MONSIEUR LE SECRÉTAIRE D'ETAT,

[Moscou] 19 avril 1947.

J'ai l'honneur d'accuser réception de votre lettre du 19 avril concernant les exportations de charbon des trois zones occidentales de

l'Allemagne. Je suis heureux de constater que vous avez donné, dans une large mesure, satisfaction aux demandes depuis longtemps pré-

sentées par le Gouvernement français, en fixant par une formule d'application générale le montant des exportations de charbon en fonction de la production allemande. Bien qu'encore éloignés de ce que nous

avions espéré, les chiffres qui sont joints à votre lettre constituent, de votre part et de celle du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis, un effort

de compréhension que nous apprécions, connaissant les préoccupations dont vous vous êtes fait l'écho . Je vous remercie donc de cette com-

munication, dont je prends acte. Toutefois, en raison de l'écart qui subsiste entre ce que nous pouvons
espérer de vos propositions et les besoins minimum vitaux de l'économie

4065

4066

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

française, tels que je les ai définis au nom du Gouvernement français, je vous demande de bien vouloir en outre nous prêter votre assistance

en ce qui concerne la question sarroise et ses répercussions sur notre situation charbonnière .

Je vous demande de bien vouloir, lorsque le rattachement écono-

mique de la Sarre à la France aura été décidé, accepter de faire une notification conjointe de cette décision à l'organisation européenne du charbon (Eco) . En faisant cette notification, vous voudrez bien

indiquer que la France présentera désormais devant Eco les ressources et les besoins de l'ensemble franco-sarrois , et inviter cet organisme à

tirer les conclusions de cette situation nouvelle. J'attacherais du prix

à recevoir votre accord sur les dispositions contenues dans les lettres que nous échangeons , et dont j'accepte la teneur./.

Veuillez agréer, Monsieur le Secrétaire d'Etat , les assurances de ma très haute considération .

Monsieur GEORGE C. MARSHALL, Secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.

BIDAULT

Translation

THE MINISTER

FOREIGN AFFAIRS

[Moscow]

MR. SECRETARY OF STATE :

April 19, 1947.

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter of April 19 concerning exports of coal from the three western zones of Germany. I am pleased to note that you have, in large measure, complied with the requests which were made long ago by the French Government, in fixing, by a formula of general application, the amount of exports of coal as a function of German production. Although still far from what we had expected , the figures which are enclosed with your letter constitute an effort on your part and on that of the United States Government to understand , which we appreciate , knowing the cares which you have echoed . I thank you therefore for this communication, of which I take note.
However, on account of the difference which exists between what we can expect from your proposals and the minimum vital requirements of French economy, as I have defined them in the name of the French Government, I request you to be good enough to lend us your assistance in the Saar question and its repercussions on our coal situation .

I request that, when the economic annexation of the Saar to France has been decided upon, you will be so good as to consent to make a joint notification of this decision to the European Coal Organization (Eco) . In making this notification , please indicate that France will, in the future , lay before the Eco the supplies and requirements of France and the Saar as a whole, and invite that organization

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-COAL EXPORTS FROM GERMANY- APR. 19, 1947

to draw conclusions from this new situation . I should value your

approval of the provisions contained in the notes which we exchange

and of which I accept the terms.

Please accept , Mr. Secretary of State, the assurances of my very

high consideration .

BIDAULT

Mr. GEORGE C. MARSHALL,

Secretary of State of the United States of America .

The Secretary of State to the French Minister of Foreign Affairs

DELEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

[Moscow]

April 19th, 1947

DEAR MONSIEUR Bidault,

In answer to your letter of April 19th in reply to my letter of the same date, about the export of coal from the three Western Zones of

Germany, I am happy to state that the arrangements contained in these letters have my approval.

Faithfully yours,

G C MARSHALL

Monsieur GEORGES BIDAULT

Minister of Foreign Affairs of the French Republic

4067

4068

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

June 9, 21, and July 7, 8, 1947
[T. I. A. S. 2110]

Arrangement between the United States of America and Denmark respecting passport visa fees . Effected by exchanges of notes dated at Copenhagen June 9 and 21 and July 7 and 8, 1947; entered into force July 8, 1947.

The American Embassy to the Danish Ministry for Foreign Affairs AMERICAN EMBASSY
Copenhagen, June 9, 1947 AIDE - MEMOIRE

54 Stat. 673. 8 U.S. C. 451.

It is understood that the Danish Embassy at Washington has informally discussed with the Department of State the possibility of effecting a reciprocal arrangement for the abolition of non-immigrant passport visa requirements. Unfortunately Section 30 of the Alien
Registration Act of 1940 makes it impossible for the United States Government to enter into an agreement for the abolition of visas for persons entering the United States.
However, should the Danish Government feel disposed to waive visa requirements for American citizens entering Denmark for a temporary period, the Government of the United States would be inclined to grant gratis visas valid for twenty-four months to Danish subjects coming to the United States for a temporary visit. Such visas would be valid for any number of entries into the United States or United States territory within the period above mentioned, provided the non- immigrant status of the bearer is maintained at the
time of each application for admission . The period of validity of a visa relates only to the period within which it may be used in connection with an application for admission to the United States, but does not refer to the length of the stay of the alien in the United States, which is a matter within the discretion of the immigration authorities.
CTS ROYAL MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Copenhagen.

The Danish Ministry for Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

UDENRIGSMINISTERIET. [1]

A. Journal Nr. 36. D. 57. a.

Note verbale.

Referring to the American Embassy's Aide Memoire no. 261 of September 3rd, 1946, [ 2 ] regarding American joint passports being

¹Ministry for Foreign Affairs. ' Not printed.

June 9, 21, 1947 62 STAT. ] DENMARK-PASSPORT VISA FEES- July 7, 8, 1947

valid for entry into Denmark and later conversations on the same

subject the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have the honour to inform

the Embassy that the Ministry of Justice have informed the au-

thorities concerned that American passports including the bearer's wife and children under 21 years of age are valid for entry into

Denmark as from June 14th, 1947. 2 copies of the circular [ 1 ] regarding this matter are enclosed.

Furthermore the Ministry of Justice have agreed in principle to the abolition of non-immigrant visa requirements for United States

citizens coming to Denmark provided that the visa facilities men-

tioned in the Embassy's Aide Memoire of June 9th, 1947, be granted

Danish subjects visiting the United States.

In order to expedite the abovementioned visa arrangement the

Ministry for Foreign Affairs would appreciate at the earliest convenience to be informed of the American Government's attitude towards the matter.

COPENHAGEN, June 21st, 1947.

FO RE IG N

4069

MINISTRY FOR

AFFAIRS

THE AMERICAN EMBASSY, Copenhagen.

The Danish Ministry for Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

UDENRIGSMINISTERIET.

A. Journal Nr. 36. D. 57. a.

Note verbale.

The Ministry for Foreign Affairs present their compliments to the American Embassy and with reference to their note verbale of June 21st, 1947, have the honour to inform the Embassy that according to a decree issued by the Ministry of Justice on June 27th, 1947, no visas are required as from that date for citizens of the United States of America visiting Denmark.
In case it is desired to extend the visit for a period exceeding 3 months, or, if the visitor should wish to take up employment in this

1 ' Not

printed.

4070

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

country, an application to that effect must be submitted to the com-

petent Danish authorities.

COPENHAGEN, July 7th , 1947.

F O R E I G N

MINISFTRY OR

AFFAIRS

THE AMERICAN EMBASSY, Copenhagen.

The American Embassy to the Danish Ministry for Foreign Affairs

No. 142

AMERICAN EMBASSY Copenhagen, Denmark, July 8, 1947

The American Embassy presents its compliments to the Royal Ministry for Foreign Affairs and has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the Ministry's note verbale (A. Journal Nr. 36. D. 57. a.) of July 7, 1947. It is noted with satisfaction that according to a decree issued by the Ministry of Justice on June 27, 1947, visas are no longer required for citizens of the United States of American visiting Denmark. Note has also been taken ofthe fact that this decree does not affect the length of stay in the country and that application must be made to the competent Danish authorities if the stay exceeds three
months or if the visitor wishes to take employment in Denmark. The United States Government in view of the above action regard-
ing requirements for United States citizens proceeding to Denmark, has authorized its consular offices to issue to non-immigrant Danish subjects, other than officials, visas valid for any number of entries into the United States and its possessions during the period of 24 months from the date of issuance, provided they hold valid Danish passports and continue to maintain non-immigrant status. The period of validity of the visa relates to the period within which the visa is used for presentation at a port of entry and not to the length of stay in the United States, which is a matter for determination by the immigration or other appropriate authorities. The provisions
of the agreement of July 1925 [1] relative to the waiver of visa fees for non-immigrants continue in effect.
CTS ROYAL MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS
Copenhagen, Denmark

' Not printed.

Apr. 30, 1948 62 STAT. ] SPAIN- RESTITUTION OF MONETARY GOLD- May 3, 1948

4071

Agreement between the United States of America and Spain respecting restitution of monetary gold looted by Germany . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Madrid April 30 and May 3, 1948; entered into force May 3, 1948.

April 30 and May 3, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 2123]

The American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim to the Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs

AMERICAN EMBASSY

EXCELLENCY :

Madrid, April 30, 1948

Under instructions of my Government, I have the honor to refer to various conversations which have been held by representatives of this Embassy and of Your Excellency's Ministry in connection with the information on Spanish gold holdings requested in this Embassy's Note Verbal No. 2372 of September 26 , 1946.[']
In the course of these conversations, Your Excellency's Government has made available a statement of its gold acquisitions from 1939 to date and of its present gold holdings . From these data , it has been found that eight bars totaling a fine weight of 101.6 kilograms were gold taken by Germany from the Netherlands, although Your Excellency's Government had not been aware of their looted origin either at the time of acquisition or subsequently. I now understand that Your Excellency's Government, in implementation of its declaration of solidarity with Bretton Woods Resolution VI [2] and the Gold Declaration of 1944 , is ready to restitute the 101.6 kilograms of fine gold above mentioned.
I therefore have the honor to inform Your Excellency that I am instructed by my Government to state that restitution of that amount by Your Excellency's Government will be considered by my Government as fulfillment of the requirements of the Bretton Woods Resolution and the Gold Declaration, provided the Government of Your Excellency is agreeable to make further restitution of any additional identifiable monetary gold taken by Germany, should it be found that any such gold may have been acquired by Spain. In this connection, may I add that no claims for any such additional gold presented after April 30, 1949 will be considered .
I am further instructed to inform Your Excellency that, upon receipt of agreement on the part of Your Excellency's Government to the foregoing, the United States Treasury will publicly make known that Spain will no longer be subject to the Gold Declaration of 1944 and that international gold movements by Spain will be free from restrictions applied on the grounds of any part thereof having been of possible looted origin.

9 F. R. 2096.

1 Not printed. ' Department of State pub. 2187.

4072

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
I would greatly appreciate confirmation by Your Excellency of the above understanding in order that I may inform my Government accordingly.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration .
PAUL T. CULBERTSON Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
His Excellency Don ALBERTO MARTÍN ARTAJO Minister for Foreign Affairs, Madrid.

The Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim

MINISTERIO DE ASUNTOS EXTERIORES

NÚM. 392

MADRID, 3 de mayo de 1948.

Muy señor mío: Tengo la honra de acusar recibo a su Nota de fecha 30 de abril último, que traducida dice lo siguiente:

"Siguiendo instrucciones de mi Gobierno tengo el honor de referirme a diversas conversaciones que han celebrado Representantes de esta Embajada con el Ministerio a cargo de Vuestra Excelencia en relación con la información solicitada en la Nota
Verbal de esta Embajada número 2.372 , de 26 de septiembre de 1946 .
En el curso de esas conversaciones el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia ha facilitado una declaración de sus adquisiciones de oro a partir de 1939 hasta la fecha y de sus existencias actuales de oro . De esta información se deduce que ocho barras con un peso total de 101,6 kilogramos finos, eran de oro tomado por Alemania en Holanda, y de cuyo origen, el pillaje, el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia no había tenido conocimiento ni en el momento de su adquisición ni con posterioridad.
Entiendo que ahora el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia, en cumplimiento de su declaración de solidaridad con la Resolución VI de Bretton Woods y con la Declaración del Oro de 1944, se halla dispuesto a devolver los 101,6 kilogramos de oro fino antes mencionados .
Por ello tengo el honor de informar a Vuestra Excelencia que tengo instrucciones de mi Gobierno para declarar que la restitución de esa cantidad por el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia, será considerada por mi Gobierno como cumplimiento de las disposiciones de la Resolución de Bretton Woods y de la Declaración del Oro, ha condición de que el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia acceda a restituir posteriormente cualquier otra cantidad adicional de oro amonedado identificable ocupado por Alemania , en el caso de que

62 STAT. ] SPAIN- RESTITUTION OF MONETARY GOLD- Apr. 30, 1948 May 3, 1948

se averigue que oro de esa naturaleza haya podido ser adquirido por España. En relación con este asunto me permito añadir que no será atendida ninguna reclamación por cualquier cantidad adicional de oro de esa naturaleza, presentada después del 30 de abril de 1949.
Se me han dado también instrucciones para que informe a Vuestra Excelencia que una vez recibida la conformidad por parte del Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia sobre lo que antecede , la Tesorería de los Estados Unidos dará a conocer públicamente que España no quedará sujeta por más tiempo a la Declaración del Oro de 1944 y de que los movimientos internacionales de oro por parte de España quedarán libres de restricciones fundadas en que alguna parte del mismo haya tenido como posible orígen el pillaje.
Agradecería mucho la confirmación de Vuestra Excelencia de lo que más arriba queda convenido a fin de que yo pueda informar a mi Gobierno" .

Tengo la honra de manifestarle la conformidad de mi Gobierno con lo que antecede .
Aprovecho la oportunidad , Señor Encargado de Negocios, para reiterarle las seguridades de mi distinguida consideración.

Al Señor PAUL T. CULBERTSON,

ALBERTO MARTIN ARTAJO

Encargado de Negocios a . i. de los Estados Unidos de América.-

4073

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

No. 392

MADRID, May 3, 1948.

DEAR SIR : I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your note dated April
30 last, which, in translation , reads as follows :

(For the English language text of the note, see ante , p . 4071. ]
I have the honor to inform you that my Government agrees to the foregoing.
I avail myself of the opportunity, Mr. Chargé d'Affaires, to renew to you the assurances of my distinguished consideration.

Agreement Spain.

ALBERTO MARTIN ARTAJO

Mr. PAUL T. CULBERTSON, Chargé d'Affaires ad interim of the United States of America.-

4074

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

June 9, 1947 (T. I. A. S. 2127]

Agreement between the United States of America and Italy respecting air service facilities in Italy. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Rome June 9, 1947 ; entered into force June 9, 1947.

The American Ambassador to the Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

F. O. No. 261

ROME, June 9, 1947.

EXCELLENCY,

I have the honor to invite Your Excellency's attention to the air navigation, communication, and weather facilities installed at the fol-

lowing places in Italy by the United States military services :

a. Rome, Ciampino b. Naples, Capodichino c. Pisa, San Giusto d. Amendola e. Cagliari, Elmas f. Palermo, Bocca di Falco g. Trapani (Borrizzo ) h. Bari , Palese i. Milan, Linate j. Vibo Valentia

A list of the installations at these points is now being prepared and will be forwarded to Your Excellency for inclusion as an Annex [ ] to this note. This list is being prepared by the competent United States Authorities in consultation with the appropriate Italian officials, taking into account the need for such facilities in order to operate in accordance with the requirement of the International Civil Transfe Governmerntto Italian Aviation Organization (ICAO) . As those installations become sur- . plus to United States military requirements, it is the intention of my Government that they, together with one year's supply of maintenance parts and expendable supplies , wherever theater surplus stocks permit, should be transferred to the Italian Government. In addition, the Government of the United States of America, through either the
United States Army, United States Navy, Civil Aeronautics Administration, or private agency , will do everything possible to assist the Government of Italy or its representatives in purchasing, through regular commercial channels, maintenance parts and expendable supplies for the operation of the facilities.
With reference to the list referred to above, it is understood that the equipment turned over at Pisa shall within 90 days of the time of
1 ' Not printed.

62 STAT. ] ITALY-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-JUNE 9, 1947

4075

turnover be transferred to Milan in accordance with paragraph 4 be-

low at the Italian Government's expense and Milan will receive all the benefits of the present agreement.
As sole consideration for transfer of equipment, the Italian Gov-

Consideration for transfer.

ernment, recognizing on the one hand the immediate necessity of

insuring the safety of international air traffic in an adequate manner

until regulations are established by the International Civil Aviation

Organization ( ICAO) and applied by the said Government in execu-

tion of its international undertakings, and, on the other hand , the

special interests of United States aviation during the period in which

American Armed Forces will participate in the occupation of ex-

Undertakings by

enemy countries, will undertake :

Italian Government.

1. To operate and maintain without interruption all the installations in a manner satisfactory for air traffic into and away from airdromes at which the facilities are located and along the international air routes converging on those airdromes.
2. To provide the full service of all facilities to all aircraft on a non-discriminatory basis with charges, if any, only for non-operational messages, until an international agreement on charges has been promulgated by ICAO.
3. To transmit weather reports in accordance with the international procedures in use at the time of the transfer of the facilities in a

manner adequate to insure an integrated meteorological network for the international air routes unless changed by international agreement to which the Governments of the United States and Italy are parties.
4. Subject to the possibility of obtaining necessary spare parts, to continue the operation of all types of facilities in their present locations or at new locations deemed preferable by the representatives of both Governments until (a ) new facilities are installed in accordance with standards promulgated by ICAO or (b ) it is determined by the Governments of Italy and the United States that there is no longer a need for the original facilities. It is understood that the aeronautical facilities will be devoted exclusively to aeronautical service and will not be diverted to the communication service.

5. To provide English- speaking operators at air-to- ground and control tower communication positions until regulations covering voice transmissions are promulgated by Icao ; and further until such regulations are promulgated, to grant permission to a representative of the United States air carriers authorized to serve an airdrome to enter

its control tower and, when in the opinion of the representative a case of necessity exists, subject to the authority of the commander of the

airdrome, to talk to the pilot of any United States aircraft flying in the vicinity of the airdrome.
6. To utilize for air-ground and control tower communications the radio frequencies allotted for such purpose by ICAO on the basis of International Telecommunications regulations prescribing allocations of radio frequency bands.

4076

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

7. To authorize and facilitate day-to-day adjustments in air com-

munication service matters by direct communication between the oper-

ating agency of Italy and the service agency of the United States

Government, United States air carriers, or a communication organi-

Training of Italian personnel.

zation representing one or more of them. Subject to availability of Army communications personnel at Ciam-
pino, the United States Government will continue to train Italian

communications personnel until August 1, 1947.

If the foregoing is satisfactory to the Italian Government, Your

Excellency's reply to that effect, together with this note, will be con-

sidered as constituting an agreement between our two governments with respect to the matters outlined herein.

I take this occasion to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.

JAMES CLEMENT DUNN

His Excellency Count CARLO Sforza ,

Minister of Foreign Affairs, Rome.

The Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERO DEGLI AFFARI ESTERI

18482/180

ROMA, 9 Giugno 1947.

ECCELLENZA, In relazione alla Sua lettera in data odierna sono lieto di confer-

marLe che il Governo italiano ha approvato le disposizioni di cui alla lettera surriferita concernente la cessione al Governo italiano di im-

pianti metereologici, di telecomunicazione, di navigazione aerea, dichiarati "surplus" dal Governo degli S. U. A.

Resta inteso che le disposizioni di cui al paragrafo 5 avranno valore fin tanto che non entrerà in vigore il regolamento al riguardo promul gato dalla International Civil Aviation Organization.
Sono lieto inoltre di comunicarLe che il Governo italiano è d'accordo che la Sua comunicazione insieme con la presente risposta vengano considerate come costituenti un accordo fra i nostri due Governi sulla materia.
Mi è grata l'occasione, Eccellenza , per rinnovarLe l'assicurazione della mia più alta considerazione.
SFORZA S. E. JAMES DUNN

Ambasciatore degli S. U. A. Roma

62 STAT. ] ITALY-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-JUNE 9, 1947

Translation

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

18482/180

ROME, June 9, 1947.

EXCELLENCY :

With respect to your note of today's date, I am pleased to confirm to you that the Italian Government has approved the provisions mentioned in the aforesaid note concerning the granting to the Italian Government of meteorological, telecommunication, and air-navigation stations declared surplus by the Government of the United States of America.
It is understood that the provisions mentioned in paragraph 5 will be valid until the coming into force of the pertinent regulations promulgated by the International Civil Aviation Organization.
I am pleased, furthermore, to inform you that the Italian Government agrees that your communication, together with the present reply is considered as constituting an agreement between our two Governments concerning the matter.
I avail myself of the occasion , Excellency , to renew to you the assurances of my highest consideration.
SFORZA His Excellency
JAMES DUNN

Ambassador of the United States of America Rome

4077

4078

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

DecJeamnbuearry211, 51,941594, 6and [T. I. A. S. 2131]

Agreement between the United States of America and Spain respecting air transport services, amending the agreement of December 2, 1944. Effected by exchange of notes verbales dated at Madrid December 21 , 1945, and January 15, 1946; entered into force January 15, 1946.

The American Embassy to the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs No. 1379
NOTE VERBALE

58 Stat. 1473. 58 Stat. 1473.

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to inform the Ministry, under instructions received today from the Department of State, that Transcontinental World Airways, the airline indicated by the Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States to operate the route between the United States and Madrid via Lisbon, plans to inaugurate its service to Madrid on January 1 , 1946 from New York, via Newfoundland, Ireland and Lisbon. The first flight is due to reach Madrid on January 2. It would depart from Madrid on its
return flight on January 3. The service, for the time being, would be weekly ; departures from New York being on January 1, 8, 15, etc. and from Madrid on Jan. 3, 10, 17, etc. However, it is the Embassy's understanding that the runway extension at present under construction at Barajas airport probably will not be completed in time to permit of this service being inaugurated as planned by the company, which is being kept informed of the progress of the construction work at Barajas by the Embassy.
Until such time as this airline is enabled to extend its services eastward from Madrid, this city will be its European terminus. At such time as this route can be extended to conform with the Transcontinental and Western Airline's route as communicated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Embassy's Note Verbale No. 535 of July 11 , 1945, [ 1 ] this company will provide service through Madrid to Algiers, as authorized in Article I (a ) ( Route No. 2) of the Civil Air Agreement signed at Madrid on December 2 , 1944.
Under date of July 11, the Embassy communicated to the Ministry the details of the air routes between the United States and Europe by which the CAB of the United States had authorized three airlines of the United States to operate. The Ministry will have noted that the route allocated to Transcontinental and Western Airlines provides for a spur route to be operated by this company from Madrid to Rome, thence to North Africa via Athens. This spur route is not covered in Article I ( a ) 2 of the Civil Air Agreement of December 2 , 1944.
¹1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ]

SPAIN-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Dec. 21 , 1945 Jan. 15, 1946

In accordance with instructions from the Department of State the Embassy has the honor to inform the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it would appreciate its consent to the effecting of an appropriate revision of the route definition as set forth in Article I ( a ) 2 of the Bilateral Air Agreement referred to above, to be modified to read as follows :

4079 58 Stat. 1473.

"Route 2. A route from the United States through Lisbon to Madrid , proceeding therefrom ( a ) to Rome and points beyond and ( b) to Algiers and points beyond, return being made over the same route. "
The establishment of two routes to be operated from Madrid by Transcontinental World Airways (the name of this company having been modified recently to better describe the greater scope of its operations ) will add considerably to the volume of traffic through Madrid, particularly as the route which it is now proposed to add will permit of through service by TWA from New York to Madrid, thence to the important traffic centers of Rome and Athens, which would be touched on the route to Cairo.
The Embassy expresses the hope that approval for this additional route through Madrid may be formalized by an early indication of the Ministry's willingness to effect the appropriate modification of Article I ( a ) 2 of the agreement of December 2, 1944, as set forth above.

MADRID, December 21, 1945.

The Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy MINISTERIO DE ASUNTOS EXTERIORES

NÚM. 63

P. E. NOTA VERBAL

El Ministerio de Asuntos Exteriores saluda atentamente a la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América y en contestación a la Nota Verbal de la Embajada nº 1.379 , de 21 de diciembre de 1945 , tiene la honra de manifestarle su conformidad a que la ruta nº 2, prevista en el artículo I ( a ) 1 del "Convenio entre España y los Estados Unidos de América, relativo al funcionamiento de Servicios Internacionales de Transporte Aéreo" firmado con fecha 2 de diciembre de 1944, quede redactado de la siguiente forma :
Ruta número 2

"Ruta desde los Estados Unidos por Lisboa a Madrid continuando desde aquí :
a) A Roma y puntos ulteriores ; y b) A Argel y puntos ulteriores , efectuándose el regreso por la misma ruta".

4080

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Al propio tiempo el Ministerio participa a la Embajada que ha tomado nota de que, en cuanto el aeropuerto de Madrid-Barajas se encuentre en condiciones de recibir los grandes aviones de transporte transoceánicos, empezará a funcionar la línea explotada por la Empresa Transcontinental World Airways y que este servicio será semanal.
MADRID, 15 de enero de 1946. A LA EMBAJADA DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA EN MADRID.-

Ante, p. 4078. 58 Stat. 1473.

Translation MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

No. 63

P. E.

NOTE VERBALE

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America and in reply to the Embassy's Note Verbale No. 1379 of December 21, 1945, has the honor to inform it that it agrees that the definition of Route 2 as set forth in Article I ( a ) 1 of the "Agreement between the United States of America and Spain relating to the Operation of International Air Transport Services" signed on December 2, 1944, be modified to read as follows :
Route 2
"A route from the United States through Lisbon to Madrid, proceeding therefrom :
a) To Rome and points beyond ; and b) To Algiers and points beyond , return being made over the same route".
At the same time the Ministry informs the Embassy that it has taken note of the fact that, as soon as the Madrid-Barajas airport is in condition to receive large transoceanic transport planes, the line operated by Transcontinental World Airways will begin to function, and that this service will be weekly.
MADRID, January 15, 1946. THE EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA IN MADRID. --

62 STAT. ]

Feb. 21 , 1946 SPAIN- AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES-

Mar. 12, 1946

4081

Agreement between the United States of America and Spain respecting air transport services , amending the agreement of December 2, 1944, as amended . Effected by exchange of notes verbales dated at Madrid February 21 and March 12 , 1946; entered into force March 12 , 1946.

February 21 and March 12, 1946
[T. I. A. S. 2132]

The American Embassy to the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs

No. 1626

NOTE VERBALE

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has the honor to refer to its Note No. 575 of July 14, 1945 [ 1 ] concerning the suggested revision of route definitions set forth in Article I ( a ) 1. of the Agreement between the United States of America and Spain relating to the Operation of International Air Transport Services.

58 Stat. 1473.

In pursuance of that Note and in view of the desire of Pan American
Airways to inaugurate service in the near future over a route from the United States to Lisbon , Barcelona, and Marseilles, the Embassy is desirous of obtaining the early agreement of the Spanish Government to the proposed re-definition of Route 1 to read as follows :

"A route from the United States through Lisbon to Barcelona, proceeding therefrom to Marseilles and possibly points beyond , return being made over the same route."

At the same time, because of its bearing on the safety of United States commercial airline operations between Portugal and the United Kingdom, the agreement of the Spanish Government is requested to the inclusion of the following paragraph ( as proposed also in the Embassy's Note No. 575 ) as part of Article I ( a ) 1. and immediately following the revised route descriptions :

"Rights of transit and non -traffic stop are granted United States airlines in the territory of Spain on a route between Portugal and the United Kingdom . 99

The Embassy has noted with gratification the Ministry's Note Verbale No. 63 ( P.E. ) of January 15, 1946 conveying the agreement of the Spanish Government to the proposed modification of Route 2, as defined in Article I ( a ) 1. of the December 2, 1944 Agreement, to cover the projected operations of Transcontinental and Western Air (Trans-World Airlines) into and through Spain.
MADRID, February 21, 1946. ¹1 Not printed.

Ante, p. 4079.

4082

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

The Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the American Embassy

MINISTERIO DE ASUNTOS EXTERIORES

NÚM . 200

P.E. NOTA VERBAL

El Ministerio de Asuntos Exteriores saluda atentamente a la Embajada de los Estados Unidos de América, y en contestación a la Nota Verbal de la Embajada nº 1626, de 21 de febrero último, tiene la honra de participarle la conformidad del Gobierno español para la nueva definición propuesta por las autoridades norteamericanas, para la ruta nº 1 , fijada en el Artículo I ( a ) , del "Convenio entre España y los Estados Unidos de América relativo al funcionamiento de servicios internacionales de transporte aéreo", con la redacción siguiente :
"Ruta desde los Estados Unidos por Lisboa a Barcelona, continuando desde aquí a Marsella y posiblemente puntos ulteriores, efectuándose el vuelo de regreso por la misma ruta".
El Ministerio confía que la empresa Pan American Airways, esté en situación de inaugurar en breve plazo el servicio en la mencionada ruta .
Respecto de la segunda petición contenida en la referida Nota Verbal nº 1626 , el Gobierno Español está igualmente conforme, con que a fin de reforzar la seguridad de funcionamiento de la línea aérea comercial norteamericana entre Portugal y el Reino Unido, se incluya el siguiente párrafo, como parte del Art. I ( a ) 1.y a continuación inmediatamente de las descripciones revisadas de rutas :
"Se concede a las líneas aéreas norteamericanas en territorio español los derechos de tránsito y escala técnica en una ruta entre Portugal y el Reino Unido".
Como en la actualidad los posibles aterrizajes para escala técnica en dicha región, no se encuentran por el momento en condiciones de prestar servicio, el Ministerio ruega a la Embajada, tenga a bien manifestar cuáles son los puntos del territorio español en que eventualmente desearían aterrizar los aviones en la línea de referencia, para informar a la Embajada sobre las condiciones en que se encuentran actualmente.
MADRID, 12 de marzo de 1.946. A LA EMBAJADA DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA. -

62 STAT. ] SPAIN-AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES- Feb. 21, 1946 Mar. 12, 1946
Translation MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

4083

No. 200

P. E.

NOTE VERBALE

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to the Embassy of the United States of America , and, in reply to the Embassy's Note Verbale No. 1626 of February 21 last, has the honor to inform it that the Spanish Government agrees to the new definition proposed by the American authorities for Route 1, set forth in Article I (a ) of the "Agreement between the United States of America and Spain relating to the Operation of International Air Transport Services", to read as follows :
"A route from the United States through Lisbon to Barcelona, proceeding therefrom to Marseilles and possibly points beyond , return being made over the same route".
The Ministry hopes that Pan American Airways will be able to inaugurate service on this route shortly.
With respect to the second request contained in the aforesaid Note Verbale No. 1626 , the Spanish Government also agrees, for the purpose of increasing the safety of United States commercial airline operations between Portugal and the United Kingdom, to the inclusion of the following paragraph as a part of Article I ( a ) 1. and immediately following the revised route descriptions :

Ante, p. 4081. 58 Stat. 1473.

"Rights of transit and non -traffic stop are granted United States airlines in the territory of Spain on a route between Portugal and the United Kingdom".

Since at the present time the possible landing fields for non-traffic stops in that area are not prepared to render service, the Ministry requests the Embassy to be good enough to specify the points in Spanish territory at which aircraft of the line under reference might eventually wish to land, in order that the Ministry may inform the Embassy as to their present condition .
MADRID, March 12, 1946.

THE EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. --

68706-52-PT. III- 93

4084

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

September 23, 24, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 2148]

Agreement between the United States of America and Panama respecting a cooperative education program in Panama, extending the program provided for by the agreement of November 13 and 14, 1944. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Panamá September 23 and 24, 1948; entered into force September 24 , 1948; operative retroactively from June 30, 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Panamanian Minister

for Foreign Affairs

No. 58

THE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
PANAMÁ, PANAMÁ, September 23 , 1948

EXCELLENCY :

59 Stat. 1871.

I have the honor to refer to the notes exchanged on November 13 and 14 , 1944 , between the Ambassador of the United States to

your Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and to the

Post, p. 4094.

Basic Agreement between the Republic of Panamá and the InterAmerican Educational Foundation , Inc., dated February 25 , 1946,

which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing co-

operative education program in Panamá . I also refer to Your

Excellency's note of August 7 , 1948 , [ ] suggesting the consideration

by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agree-

ment. In accordance with legislation enacted during 1947 by the

Congress and approved by the President of the United States all of

the property, funds, functions, personnel , liabilities , and restrictions of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc., were trans-

61 Stat. , Pt. 1 , p . 780. 22 U. S. C. Supp. I,
$§ 281-2811.

ferred to The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate instrumentality of the United States created by such legislative action. Consequently, the participation by the United States in the coopera-

tive education program is now being effectuated through The Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

Post, p. 4094.

As Your Excellency knows, the Basic Agreement of February 25, 1946 , provides that the cooperative education program will terminate on June 30, 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my Government agrees with the Government of Panamá that an extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the cooperative program for a period of one year, from June 30 , 1948 , through June

30, 1949. It would be understood that, during such period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $41,199.00 U. S. Currency to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] PANAMA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-SEPT. 23, 24, 1948

for use in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of B/s 101,000.00. The Institute would also be

willing during the same extension period to make available an amount not exceeding $20,000.00 U. S. Currency to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the account of the Servicio , for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Education Division Field Staff, who are maintained by the Institute in Panamá . The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums

already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government , I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the

extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Education and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

His Excellency ERNESTO JAÉN GUARDIA,

MONNETT B. Davis

Minister for Foreign Affairs, Panamá, Panamá

The Panamanian Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

D. P. No 1733.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

PANAMA , Septiembre 24 de 1948.

Tengo a honra referirme a la atenta comunicación de Vuestra Excelencia N° 58 , de fecha 23 del corriente, que reza textualmente así:

"Tengo el honor de referirme a las notas cruzadas el 13 y 14 de noviembre de 1944 entre el Embajador de los Estados Unidos ante el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia y el entonces Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores y el Acuerdo Básico entre la República de Panamá y la Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. , de fecha 25 de febrero de 1946 , el cual dispone lo relativo a la iniciación y realización del programa existente de cooperación educativa en Panamá . Me refiero así mismo a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia , de fecha 7 de agosto de 1948 , en la que se sugiere que nuestros respectivos Gobiernos den consideración a una nueva prórroga de aquel Acuerdo . De conformidad con la legislación promulgada por el Congreso en el curso del año de 1947 y sancionada por el Presidente de los Estados Unidos , todos los bienes, fondos, funciones, personal, obligaciones y restricciones de la Inter-American Education Foundation, Inc. , fueron traspasados a The Institute of Inter-

4085

4086

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
American Affairs (Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos) , organismo del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos creado por la mencionada acción legislativa. En consecuencia, la participación de los Estados Unidos en el programa de cooperación educativa se efectúa ahora por medio del Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos.
"Como lo sabe Vuestra Excelencia , el Acuerdo Básico de 25 de febrero de 1946 estipula que el programa de cooperación educativa termina el 30 de junio de 1948. Sin embargo, considerando los mutuos beneficios que ambos gobiernos están derivando del programa, mi Gobierno conviene con el Gobierno de Panamá en que sería de desear la prórroga de dicho programa . El Departamento de Estado en Washington me ha comunicado que pueden efectuarse ahora arreglos para que el Instituto continúe su participación en
el programa cooperativo por un período de un año , del 30 de junio de 1948 al 30 de junio de 1949. Quedaría entendido que durante dicho período de prórroga, el Instituto haría un aporte de $41.199.00, moneda de los Estados Unidos , al Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación para su uso en la realización de las actividades proyectadas en el programa, a condición de que el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia contribuya al Servicio para el mismo fin con la suma de B/101,000.00 . El Instituto estaría dispuesto también a aportar durante el mismo período de la prórroga, una suma que
no exceda de $20,000.00 , moneda de los Estados Unidos para que sea retenida por el Instituto , y no depositada a cuenta del Servicio , para el pago de sueldos y otros gastos del personal de terreno de la División de Educación del Instituto que éste mantiene en Panamá. Las sumas a que se hace referencia serían en adición a las ya requeridas de conformidad con el actual Acuerdo Básico las cuales deben ser aportadas por las partes para dar complimiento al programa.
"Si Vuestra Excelencia conviene en que es aceptable la prórroga propuesta sobre la base antes expuesta , agradecería la expresión de la opinión y aquiescencia de Vuestra Excelencia lo más pronto que sea posible a fin de que puedan prepararse los detalles técnicos de la prórroga por los funcionarios del Ministerio de Educación y del Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos".
En respuesta, tengo a honra manifestar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Gobierno de la República acepta la prórroga propuesta en las condiciones expuestas en la nota arriba transcrita .
Aprovecho la oportunidad para testimoniarle las seguridades de mi más alta y distinguida consideración.
E. JAÉN GUARDIA
Ernesto Jaén Guardia, Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores. Su Excelencia, MONNETT B. DAVIS, Embajador de los Estados Unidos,
Ciudad.-

62 STAT. ] PANAMA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- SEPT. 23, 24, 1948

Translation

MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS

D. P. No. 1733.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

PANAMÁ, September 24, 1948 .

I have the honor to refer to Your Excellency's courteous communication No. 58 of the 23rd instant, the text of which is as follows:

[For the English language text of the note, see ante, p . 4084. ]

In reply, I have the honor to inform Your Excellency that the Government of the Republic accepts the proposed extension on the terms set forth in the note transcribed above.
I avail myself of this opportunity to express to you the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration .

E. JAÉN GUARDIA

Ernesto Jaén Guardia,

His Excellency MONNETT B. DAVIS,

Minister for Foreign Affairs.

Ambassador of the United States, City.-

4087

4088

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

EXTENSION AGREEMENT

The Government of the Republic of Panama (hereinafter referred to as the "Republic " ) , represented by Manuel Varela Jr. , the Minister

of Education (hereinafter referred to as the "Minister" ), and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the

"Institute" ), a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of America and successor to the Inter-American Edu-

cational Foundation , Inc., (hereinafter referred to as the "Founda-

tion" ) , represented by its Special Representative , Education Division,

Ernest C. Jeppsen (hereinafter referred to as the "Special Represent-

ative"), have agreed, pursuant to the request of the Republic , and

in accordance with the note dated August 7, 1948 , between the

American Ambassador and the Panamanian Minister for Foreign

Affairs, [' ] upon the following technical details for extending and modi-

P"oBsats,ipc.A4g0r9e4.ement."

fying, in the manner hereinafter set forth, the Agreement executed by the Republic and the Foundation on February 25, 1946 , (hereinafter referred to as the "Basic Agreement" ), providing for a cooperative educational program to be carried on in Panama.

CLAUSE I

Period of extension.

The cooperative educational program provided for in the Basic Agreement is hereby extended for an additional period of one year from June 30 , 1948 , through June 30, 1949.
All activities which have been and are being carried out in accordance with the Basic Agreement by the parties concerned from June 30, 1948 , to and including the effective date of this Extension Agreement are hereby ratified and approved in full.

CLAUSE II

Additional funds.

In addition to the funds originally required by the Basic Agreement

to be contributed or otherwise made available by the parties hereto with respect to the cooperative educational program, the parties hereto shall contribute and make available additional funds for use in con-

tinuing the program during the period covered by this Extension

Salaries and expenses offield staff.

Agreement in accordance with the following schedule : A. The Institute shall make available the funds necessary to pay the salaries and all other expenses of its field staff in Panama

during the period covered by this Extension Agreement, provided that the amount of such funds shall not exceed $41,199.00.

This amount shall be administered by the Institute and shall not be deposited to the credit of the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educacion (hereinafter referred to as the "Ser-

vicio ") .

1 Not printed.

!

62 STAT. ] PANAMA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION-SEPT. 23, 24, 1948

4089

B.

The Institute shall deposit to the credit of the Servicio the sum

Deposits by the Institute.

of $20,000.00 , as follows:

On or before November 1 , 1948 ·

· $ 10,000.00

On or before February 1 , 1949 . ·

$ 10,000.00

Total .

$ 20,000.00

C. The Republic shall deposit to the credit of the Servicio the sum

of B/s 101,000.00 , as follows:

On or before November 1 , 1948 ·

· · B/ 36, 000. 00

On or before February 1 , 1949 ·

B/ 35, 000. 00

On or before March 1 , 1949 ·

B/ 30,000.00

Deposits by the Republic.

Total . ·

B/101 , 000. 00

Instructional staff . In addition, the Ministry of Education shall provide the necessary instructional staff for Servicio Projects, as indicated in each Project
Agreement . If additional funds are available from the Republic, they shall be allocated to specific projects as needed and as agreed upon by the Minister of Education and the Special Representative.
Availability of D. Funds deposited to the credit of the Servicio pursuant to Clause funds, limitation.
II of this agreement by one of the parties shall not be available for
withdrawal or expenditure until the other party's deposit scheduled on the same date has been made.

CLAUSE III

The parties hereto , by written agreement of the Minister and the

Amendment of schedules for making

Special Representative , may amend the schedules for making the deposits, etc.

deposits required by Clause II hereof, may provide for advance

purchases of equipment or materials by either party with appropriate

credit against the payments due under the schedules, and may provide for contributions of funds by either or both parties , or by third parties,

for use in effectuating the cooperative educational program in addition

to the funds required to be contributed by this Extension Agreement and the Basic Agreement.

Post, p. 4094.

CLAUSE IV
The Basic Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the purpose of extending the cooperative educational program, as provided herein, and all provisions of the Basic Agreement shall be applicable to all operations and activities under this Extension Agreement to the same extent and with the same effect as though expressly set forth herein ; EXCEPT that the Basic Agreement, in its application to the period provided for in this Extension Agreement , shall be deemed to be amended and supplemented by the provisions of this Extension Agreement including the following particulars :

Force and effect.

4090

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Privileges and immunities.

1. The parties hereto declare their recognition that the Institute, being a corporate instrumentality of the United States of America

wholly owned, directed , and controlled by the Government ofthe United States of America, is entitled to share fully in all the

Unexpended funds.
Post, p. 4094 ; ante, p. 4088.
Use of funds for salaries, living expenses, transportation , etc.
References to the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc.

privileges and immunities, including immunity from suit in the courts of the Republic , which are enjoyed by the United States of America .
2. The parties hereto agree that any funds which remain unexpended on the termination of this Extension Agreement, shall, unless otherwise agreed upon in writing by the parties hereto at that time, be returned to the parties hereto in the proportion of the respective contributions made by the parties under the Basic Agreement and under Clause II of this Extension Agreement.
3. By mutual agreement between the Minister and the Special Representative, funds of the Servicio may be used to reimburse or defray the salaries, living expenses , travel and transportation costs, and other expenses of such additional personnel of the Education Division of the Institute in Panama as the parties mentioned may agree are necessary to be employed , in addition to the employees referred to under Clause II hereof . Such funds may be contributed or granted for such purposes by the Servicio to the Institute or to any other organization, but in every case the Minister and the Special Representative will enter into a written project agreement setting forth the scope and the other necessary terms of such contributions or grants.
4. All references in the Basic Agreement to the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc., shall , for the purpose of this Extension Agreement, be deemed to refer to the Institute.

Legislation, etc.

CLAUSE V
The Republic undertakes to obtain or promulgate such legislation, decrees , orders or resolutions as may be necessary to effectuate the terms of this Extension Agreement.

Effective date.

CLAUSE VI This Extension Agreement shall become effective upon ratification

by the National Assembly of the Republic of Panama . [']

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension

Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives, in quintuplicate, in the Spanish and English languages, in Panama, Republic of Panama, this 28th day of September, 1948 .

REPUBLIC OF PANAMÁ

By

M VARELA Jr

THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS

By

ERNEST C JEPPSEN

1 Feb. 8, 1949.

62 STAT. ] PANAMA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- SEPT. 23, 24, 1948 EXTENSION DEL ACUERDO.-

El Gobierno de la República de Panamá (que de ahora en adelante se llamará la "República) , representada por el Sr. Manuel Varela Jr. , Ministro de Educación (que de ahora en adelante se llamará "Ministro") , y el Instituto de Asuntos Inter-Americanos (que de ahora en adelante se llamará el " Instituto ") , una corporación del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, sucesora de la Fundación InterAmericana de Educación , Inc. , (que de ahora en adelante se llamará "Fundación " ) , representada por su Representante Especial, de la División de Educación, Sr. Ernest C. Jeppsen (que de ahora en adelante se llamará "Representante Especial" ) , han acordado, conforme la solicitud de la República, y de acuerdo con la nota fechada el día 7 de Agosto de 1948 entre el Embajador Americano y el Ministro Panameño de Relaciones Exteriores, sobre los siguientes detalles técnicos para extender y modificar, en la manera que aquí se estipula , el acuerdo ejecutado por la República y la Fundación el día 25 de Febrero de 1946 ) que de ahora en adelante se llamará el "Acuerdo Básico " ) , autorizando un programa educacional cooperativo para ser llevado a cabo en Panamá.
CLAUSULA I

El programa educacional cooperativo acordado en el Acuerdo Básico se extiende por medio de este documento por un período adicional de un año desde el 30 de Junio de 1948 al 30 de Junio de 1949 .
Todas las actividades que han sido o estan siendo llevadas a cabo, en conformidad con el Acuerdo Básico , por las partes interesadas desde el 30 de Junio de 1948 a, e incluyendo , la fecha vigente de esta Extensión del Acuerdo , son por este medio ratificadas y aprobadas en su totalidad .
CLAUSULA II

Además de los fondos que originalmente el Acuerdo Básico requiere sean contribuídos o de alguna otra forma se hagan disponibles por las partes signatarias contribuirán y harán disponibles fondos adicionales para la continuación del programa durante el período que cubre esta Extensión del Acuerdo en conformidad con el siguiente plan:

A.-El Instituto hará disponible los fondos necesarios para cubrir los salarios y demás gastos de su personal en Panamá durante el período que cubre esta Extensión del Acuerdo , con tal que la suma total de dichos fondos no exceda la cantidad de B/.41,199.00.-

Esta cantidad será suministrada por el Instituto y no será depositada a la cuenta del Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Educación (que de ahora en adelante se llamará "Servicio " ).

B.-El Instituto depositará a cuenta del Servicio la suma de . . . $20,000.00 , según sigue:

El 1 de Noviembre de 1948 , o antes · El 1 de Febrero de 1949, o antes .

· $ 10,000. oo $10,000.00

Total 68706-52--PT. III- -94

$20,000.00

4091

4092

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

C-La República depositará a cuenta del Servicio la suma de . . .

B/.101,000.00 , según sigue:

El 1 de Noviembre de 1948 . El 1 de Febrero de 1949 , o antes . El 1 de Marzo de 1949 , o antes ·

· B/.36,000.00 B/.35,000.00 B/.30,000.00

Total

·

· B/.101,000.00

Además , el Ministerio de Educación suministrará el personal docente necesario para los proyectos del Servicio , como se indicará en cada Acuerdo del Proyecto . Si la República aporta fondos adicionales, ellos serán asignados a proyectos específicos según sean necesarios y acordados por el Ministerio de Educación y el Representante Especial.
D.-Los fondos depositados a cuenta del Servicio por una de las partes, según Cláusula II de este Acuerdo, no podrán ser retirados o desembolsados hasta que el depósito correspondiente en dicha fecha haya sido hecho por la otra parte.

CLAUSULA III

Las partes signatarias, por acuerdo escrito entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial, pueden reformar los planes para hacer los depósitos requeridos en la Cláusula II de este documento ; pueden adelantar la compra de equipo y materiales por cualquiera de las 1 partes , siempre que el importe de dicha compra se le acredite a las cuotas señaladas en el plan ; y pueden acordar la contribución de fondos por cualquiera de ambas partes - por una tercera parte - para usarse en el desarrollo del programa cooperativo educacional, además de los fondos disponibles de acuerdo con esta Extensión del Acuerdo y del Acuerdo Básico.
CLAUSULA IV

El Acuerdo Básico tendrá vigencia y regirá en todo lo concerniente a la extensión del programa cooperativo educacional, tal como se estipula aquí, y todas las disposiciones del Acuerdo Básico serán aplicables a todas las operaciones y actividades señaladas en esta . Extensión del Acuerdo al efecto y con la misma vigencia y fuerza como si fueran expresamente estipuladas aquí ; EXCEPTUANDO, que el Acuerdo Básico en lo que se refiere al período acordado en esta Exten-
las sión del Acuerdo , se considerará reformado o suplementado por disposiciones de este documento , incluyendo las siguientes:
1.- Las partes declararán reconocer aquí que siendo el Institututo una corporación de los Estados Unidos de América , de propiedad, dirigida y controlada por el Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, debe gozar de todos los privilegios e inmunidades, incluyendo inmunidad de ser llamada a juicio por las Cortes o Tribunales de la República , de los cuales gozan los Estados Unidos de América.

62 STAT. ] PANAMA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- SEPT. 23, 24, 1948

2.- Las partes acuerdan que los fondos sobrantes después de la terminación de esta Extensión del Acuerdo, deben reembolsarse a las partes signatarias en proporción a las contribuciones respectivas hechas por cada parte de conformidad con el Acuerdo Básico y también de acuerdo con la Cláusula II de esta Extensión del Acuerdo , a menos que dichas partes hayan acordado otra cosa por escrito al terminar la Extensión del Acuerdo .
3.- Por acuerdo mutuo entre el Ministro y el Representante Especial , los fondos del Servicio pueden usarse para reembolsar o sufragar los salarios, gastos de subsistencia , gastos de viaje y transportación , y otros gastos del personal adicional de la División de Educación del Instituto en Panamá, según acuerden las partes signatarias que es necesario emplear, además del personal mencionado en la Cláusula II de este documento . Dichos fondos pueden ser contribuídos o concedidos para tales propósitos por el Servicio al Instituto o a cualquiera otra organización pero en cada instante el Ministro y el Representante Especial celebrarán un proyecto de acuerdo por escrito en el cual se fijará el alcance y demás condiciones necesarias para tales contribuciones o concesiones .
4.- Todas las disposiciones del Acuerdo Básico que se refieren a la Fundación Inter-Americana de Educación , Inc. , deben , para los efectos de la Extensión del Acuerdo , considerarse que se refieren al Instituto .
CLAUSULA V

La República se encargará de obtener y promulgar las leyes , decretos, ordenanzas y resoluciones que puedan ser necesarias para el cumplimiento de los términos de esta Extensión del Acuerdo .
CLAUSULA VI
Esta Extensión del Acuerdo regirá desde la fecha en que sea ratificada por la Asamblea Nacional de la República de Panamá.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes signatarias han ordenado que esta Extensión del Acuerdo sea ejecutada por sus representantes autorizados, en quintuplicado , en Español e Inglés, en Panamá, República de Panamá, a los 28 días del mes de Septiembre de mil novecientos cuarenta y ocho.

REPUBLICA DE PANAMA Por M Varela Jr

INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS INTERAMERICANOS
Por ERNEST C JEPPSEN

4093

4094

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT. AGREEMENT

The Government.

THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA , (hereinafter called the Government) , represented by the Minister of Education,

and the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc., a corporation

of the Office of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the Govern-

The Foundation.

ment of the United States of America (hereinafter called the Foundation), represented by its President, have decided to execute the

following agreement for the purpose of carrying out a cooperative educational program designed to promote closer inter-American rela-

tions through the exchange of educators, ideas , and educational methods between Panama and the United States, pursuant to Reso-

lution No. 28 , adopted by the First Conference of Ministers and

Directors of Education of the American Republics held in Panama

from September to October, 1943, [ ] and to Resolution No. 58,

adopted by the Inter-American Conference on the Problems of War

and of Peace, held in the City of Mexico , from February to March,

1945. [2] For the aforesaid purpose the contracting parties agree as follows:

The Servicio.

1.- The Government shall create as an integral part of the Ministry

Special Representative.

of Education a body to be called Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educacion (hereinafter called the Servicio) which shall be the intermediary between the Government of Panama and the Foundation.
2. The personnel that the Foundation may send to Panama shall be under the direction of an official who shall have the title of Special

Representative of the Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. ,

and who shall represent the Foundation in all activities connected

with the program to be carried out under the terms of the present agreement. The Special Representative, as well as the other experts

The Director.

sent by the Foundation , must be acceptable to the Government in order to exercise their functions.
3.- The Special Representative of the Foundation shall be the

Director of the Servicio . The Executive Power shall appoint the

personnel of the Servicio in accordance with the recommendation of the Minister of Education and the Director of the Servicio, and shall

in like manner determine the salaries and working conditions of said

personnel . The Director of the Servicio shall administer, superintend, and direct the other affairs of the Servicio . Such contracts as may

be necessary to carry out any project of the Cooperative Educational Program shall be executed in the name of the Servicio by the Director thereof or by the representative he may designate.
4. - The Cooperative Educational Program which shall place special emphasis on vocational education may include:

1 Final Act of the First Conference of Ministers and Directors of Education of the American Republics (Pan American Union, 1943) , p. 25.
2 Final Act of the Inter-American Conference on Problems of War and Peace (Pan American Union, 1945) , p. 102.

62 STAT. ] PANAMA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- SEPT. 23 , 24, 1948

4095

Special Representa(a ) The furnishing by the Foundation of a vocational educational tive.

specialist, who will be the Special Representative , and such additional expert or experts as may be needed in the opinion of the Minister of

Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation to carry

out the Cooperative Educational Program and as may be retained
with the limited funds available . Panamanian educa-
(b) The arrangements that are necessary in order that educators of tors to U.S.

Panama can go to the United States at the expense of the Servicio

for the purpose of perfecting themselves in their respective specialties ,

deliver lectures, teach, and exchange ideas and experiences with

educators in the United States ; Study of education-
(c) The study and investigation of the educational needs and re- al needs and resources.

sources of Panama for the purpose of carrying out certain projects

connected with the training of personnel to teach in primary, second-

ary, and normal institutions ;
Exchange of educa-
(d) The elaboration, adaptation , and exchange of suitable educa- tional material and plans.
tional material and any other plans that may be necessary to carry

out the program in Panama.

-

Projects.

5. The aforesaid Cooperative Educational Program shall consist

of specific projects. The nature of these projects and the activities

engaged in, as well as the allocation of the necessary funds , shall be

determined by agreement between the Minister of Education and the

Special Representative and shall be carried out through the agency of the Servicio , in accordance with such rules and procedures as may

be decided upon by mutual agreement between the Minister of

Education and the Representative of the Foundation. The Min-

ister of Education shall be the representative of the Government in

all matters pertaining to the Cooperative Educational Program . 6. -The total contribution of the Foundation to the Cooperative

Contributions.

Educational Program shall by FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS ($ 50,000.00) , currency of the United States ; said sum shall be retained by the

Foundation and shall be used for the payment of the salaries and other

expenses of the Foundation's experts who render services to the Cooperative Educational Program in Panama. In the event that the Foundation should consider at any time during the term of the present

agreement that the sum of FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS ($ 50,000.00) is

more than is required for the payment of the salaries and other expenses of the experts , the Foundation shall notify the Minister of

Education, and such unnecessary amount as there may be shall be

deposited to the account of the Servicio in such manner as may be

determined by mutual agreement between the Minister of Education

and the Special Representative of the Foundation . The direct con-

tribution to be made by the Government to the Cooperative Educa-

tional Program, shall be not less than FIFTY THOUSAND BALBOAS (B/s. 50,000) ; said sum shall be deposited in the account of the Servicio on

the dates hereinafter stipulated, unless other dates are fixed by mutual

4096

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Deposits.

agreement between the Minister of Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation.

Date

Amount

Within a period of 60 days after the approval of the present agreement

by the Cabinet of the Republic of Panama

B/s. 10,000

On or about the 15th of the twelfth month after the date stipulated for

making the first deposit. ·

20,000

On or about the 15th of the twelfth month after the date stipulated for

making the second deposit

20,000

Technical assist. ance .

B/s. 50,000 The Foundation also agrees to furnish the Government with the

technical assistance and advice of its vocational educational specialists

in the planning of a School of Arts and Crafts in the City of Panama

which the Government plans to establish at an approximate cost of TWO MILLION BALBOAS (B/s . 2,000,000) and in the establishment of

other institutions that may be necessary for the development of

vocational education in the country.

Additional assist.

ance.

7. -The Foundation also agrees to furnish the Cooperative Educa-

tional Program with all the assistance it can render by reason of its

organization and personnel in the United States of America , its

relations with other cooperating educational bodies in the United

States , its experience and its special facilities, which, within the limits

imposed by the funds available, may provide many of the services

required in connection with the tours educators who go to the United States .
The Government also agrees to :

and studies of Panamanian

Specialists.

(a) Appoint specialists to collaborate with Foundation personnel

and to pay for the services thereof.

Office quarters, equipment, etc.

(b) Make available quarters, furniture, office supplies, materials,

equipment , transportation, and other materials that may be necessary

in carrying out the program and

Purchases in the U. 8.

(c) Lend the cooperation of its other departments and agencies. 8. - In the cases in which some of the materials needed in carrying out the program are purchased in the United States, the Minister of

Education and the Special Representative of the Foundation may agree that such purchase be made through the Foundation and may

determine the manner of payment to be adopted.

Availability of funds.

9. - The funds contributed by the contracting parties to the account

of the Servicio shall be available to the Cooperative Educational Pro-

gram throughout the life of this agreement. In the event that the

account of the Servicio should earn any interest, it shall be spent on

Disposition of un.

obligated funds.

the Cooperative Educational Program. The Minister of Education

and the Special Representative of the Foundation shall decide by

mutual agreement what disposal is to be made of any unobligated funds remaining in said bank account of the Servicio upon the termination of the present contract. The expenditures of the Servicio as well as the account thereof shall be at all times subject to examination by the Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic.

62 STAT. ] PANAMA- COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- SEPT. 23 , 24, 1948

4097

-

Immunity of Ser-

10. The Servicio shall be exempt from all imposts, taxes , fees , vicio from taxes, etc.

charges , or customs duties , whether national, provincial, or municipal , Rights and privi
and from all requirements as to permits and licenses. The Servicio and leges. its personnel shall also enjoy all of the rights and privileges enjoyed by officials of the Republic of like rank. Such rights and privileges shall include, for instance, postal , telegraph, and telephone franks, and the
right to special rates granted to the Ministries of the Republic by maritime, railway, and air companies , domestic and national telegraphs and telephones , etc. The Government agrees that the Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. , since it is, as stated in the beginning , a corporation of the Office of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America, as well as the
Foundation's personnel shall enjoy the exemptions, immunities, rights, Exemption of U. S.
and privileges hereinbefore mentioned . The officials of the Foundation citizens from income who are citizens of the United States of America shall be exempt from taxes, etc. any and all Panamanian taxes on income, and from the social security contributions with respect to income which they are obliged to pay to the Government of the United States of America, and from all taxes on articles of personal use. Said employees shall also be exempt from

customs duties on their personal effects, supplies, and equipment

imported or exported for their own use.

-

Delegation ofpower

11. Any power, authority, or function that may be conferred by ete

this agreement upon the Minister of Education or upon the Special Representative of the Foundation, may be delegated by them to their representatives or substitutes , provided such representatives are satisfactory to both officials .
12. - The Government agrees to issue such decrees, resolutions or

Legislation, etc.

orders as may be necessary to carry out the terms of this agreement and

to ask from the Legislative Power such legislation as may be required
to the same end .
13. The present agreement shall remain in force until June 30 ,

Duration.

1948, and may be cancelled by either of the parties on that date, or at

any time thereafter, by notifying the other party in writing at least

60 days in advance.

In witness whereof, the contracting parties hereto have caused this

agreement to be executed in English and Spanish by their duly author-

ized representatives in Panama , Republic of Panama, this 25th day of

February 1946 .

FOR THE INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC.
KENNETH HOLLAND
President

FOR THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
[SEAL] JOSÉ D. CRESPO Minister of Education

4098

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
CONVENIO
EL GOBIERNO DE LA REPUBLICA DE PANAMA, (que de ahora en adelante se llamará el Gobierno) representado por el Ministro de Educación y la Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. , (Fundación Educativa Interamericana , S. A. ) corporación de la Oficina de Asuntos Interamericanos y entidad del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América (que de aquí en adelante se llamará la Fundación) , represen tada por su Presidente, han decidido celebrar el siguiente contrato a fin de realizar un programa cooperativo educacional tendiente a promover el acercamiento interamericano mediante el intercambio de educadores , ideas y métodos educativos entre Panamá y los Estados
Unidos, de acuerdo con la Resolución Número 28 adoptada por la Primera Conferencia de Ministros y Directores de Educación de las Repúblicas Americanas celebrada en Panamá, de septiembre a octubre de 1943 y con la Resolución Número 58 adoptada por la Conferencia Interamericana sobre los Problemas de la Guerra y de la Paz, celebrada en la ciudad de México , de febrero a marzo de 1945. Para tal efecto las partes contratantes convienen lo siguiente:
1.- El Gobierno creará como parte integrante del Ministerio de Educación una entidad que se denominará Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educación (que de ahora en adelante se llamará el Servicio) , y que será el intermediario entre el Gobierno de Panamá y la Fundación .
2.- El personal que la Fundación envíe a Panamá estará bajo la dirección de un funcionario que tendrá el título de Representante Especial de la Inter-American Educational Foundation , Inc. y que representará a la Fundación en toda actividad relacionada con el programa que se realice bajo los términos del presente convenio. El Representante Especial , lo mismo que los otros expertos que envíe la Fundación deberán tener la aceptación del Gobierno para ejercer sus funciones .
3.- El Representante Especial de la Fundación será el Director del Servicio . El Poder Ejecutivo nombrará al personal del Servicio de acuerdo con la recomendación del Ministro de Educación y del Director del Servicio , y determinará, de la misma manera, los sueldos y las condiciones de trabajo de dicho personal. El Director del Servicio administrará, vigilará y dirigirá los demás asuntos del Servicio . Los contratos necesarios para llevar a cabo cualquier proyecto del Programa Cooperativo de Educación serán ejecutados en nombre del Servicio por el Director de éste o por el representante que él designe.
4.- En el programa cooperativo de Educación se dará preferencia especial a la educación vocacional. Dicho Programa puede comprender:
a) Suministro por la Fundación de un experto en materia de educación vocacional quien será el Representante Especial de la Fundación, y de tantos expertos como el Ministro de Educación y el Representante Especial de la Fundación juzguen necesarios para la realización del Programa Cooperativo de Educación y como lo permitan los fondos disponibles .

62 STAT. ] PANAMA-COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- SEPT. 23, 24, 1948

b) Arreglos necesarios para que educadores panameños vayan a los Estados Unidos por cuenta del Servicio con el objeto de perfeccionarse en sus respectivas especialidades, dictar conferencias, enseñar y cambiar ideas y experiencias con educadores de los Estados Unidos .
c) Estudio e investigación de las necesidades y recursos educativos de Panamá con el objeto de llevar a cabo ciertos proyectos relacionados con el perfeccionamiento de personal para la enseñanza primaria, secundaria y normal.
d) Elaboración , adaptación e intercambio de materiales de enseñanza adecuados y cualesquiera otros planes que sean necesarios para la realización del programa en Panamá.

5.-El Programa Cooperativo de Educación aludido constará de proyectos específicos . El carácter de estos proyectos y las actividades que se realicen , así como la asignación de los fondos necesarios , serán determinados por acuerdo entre el Ministro de Educación y el Representante Especial de la Fundación . Tales proyectos y actividades se llevarán a cabo por conducto del Servicio , de acuerdo con las pautas y procedimientos que, por mutuo acuerdo , determinen el Ministro de

Educación y el Representante de la Fundación . El Ministro de Educación será el Representante del Gobierno en todos los asuntos que se relacionen con el Programa Cooperativo de Educación .
6.-La contribución total de la Fundación al Programa Cooperativo de Educación será de CINCUENTA MIL DOLARES ($ 50.000 ) moneda de los Estados Unidos ; dicha suma será retenida por la Fundación en Washington y se destinará al pago de los sueldos y otros gastos de los expertos de la Fundación que presten servicio al Programa Cooperativo de Educación en Panamá . En el caso de que la Fundación considere , en cualquier momento , durante la vigencia del presente convenio, que la suma de CINCUENTA MIL DOLARES ($ 50.000 ) es más de la que requiere el pago de los sueldos y otros gastos de los expertos , la Fundación notificará al Ministro de Educación , y el excedente que

no sea necesario se depositará en la cuenta del Servicio , según lo

determinen por mutuo acuerdo el Ministro de Educación y el Repre-

sentante Especial de la Fundación. La contribución directa que el

Gobierno hará al Programa Cooperativo de Educación será de CIN-

CUENTA MIL BALBOAS (B/s. 50.000 ) ; dicha suma será depositada en la

cuenta del Servicio en las fechas que a continuación se estipulan , a

menos que por mutuo acuerdo del Ministro de Educación y el Repre-

sentante Especial de la Fundación se fijen otras fechas .

Fecha

Cantidad

Dentro de un plazo de 60 días después de la aprobación del pre-

sente Convenio por el Consejo de Gabinete de la República de

Panamá · ·

B/s. 10.000

Alrededor del 15 del duodécimo mes después de la fecha esti-

pulada para hacer el primer depósito

B/s. 20.000

Alrededor del 15 del duodécimo mes después de la fecha esti-

pulada para hacer el segundo depósito

B/s. 20.000

B/s. 50.000

4099

4100

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
La Fundación se compromete asimismo a asesorar técnicamente al Gobierno, por medio de sus especialistas en materia de educación vocacional, en la labor de planear una Escuela de Artes y Oficios en la ciudad de Panamá que el Gobierno tiene el proyecto de llevar a cabo a un costo aproximado de Dos MILLONES DE BALBOAS (B/s. 2.000.000) y en la creación de otras instituciones que sean necesarias para el desarrollo de la educación vocacional en el país.
7.-La Fundación también conviene en suministrar al Programa Cooperativo de Educación toda la ayuda que pueda prestar mediante su organización y personal en los Estados Unidos de América, sus vínculos con otras entidades educativas cooperadoras de los Estados Unidos , su experiencia y sus facilidades especiales las cuales, dentro de los límites que imponen los recursos disponibles, pueden proveer muchos de los servicios que se requieren en relación con las jiras y estudios de los educadores panameños que vayan a los Estados Unidos, por cuenta del Servicio .
El Gobierno también conviene en:
a) Nombrar especialistas que colaboren con el personal de la Fundación y a pagar los servicios de los mismos.
b) Facilitar local, mobiliario, útiles de oficina , materiales, equipos, transporte y otros materiales que sean necesarios para la realización del Programa, y
c) Prestar la cooperación de otros de sus departamentos y entidades.
8.- En los casos en que la compra de algunos de los materiales necesarios para la realización del programa se haga en los Estados Unidos, el Ministro de Educación y el Representante Especial de la Fundación pueden acordar que tal compra se haga por conducto de la Fundación y determinar el método de pago que ha de adoptarse.
9.-Los fondos con que contribuyen las partes contratantes a la cuenta del Servicio estarán a la disposición del Programa Cooperativo de Educación durante la vigencia de este convenio . En el caso de que la cuenta del Servicio devengue algún interés , éste será invertido en el Programa Cooperativo de Educación. El Ministro de Educación y el Representante Especial de la Fundación determinarán por mutuo acuerdo cómo debe disponerse de cualesquiera fondos no comprometidos que queden de dicha cuenta bancaria del Servicio a la terminación del presente convenio. Los gastos del Servicio , así como la cuenta del mismo estarán sujetos , en todo momento , al examen de la Contraloría General de la República.
10.-El Servicio estará exento de todo impuesto , contribución, honorarios, cargas o derechos de aduana, ya sean nacionales, provinciales o municipales y de todo requisito para permisos y licencia . El Servicio y su personal gozarán también de todos los derechos y privilegios de que gozan los funcionarios de la República de igual categoría. Tales derechos y privilegios incluirán , por ejemplo , las franquicias postal, telegráfica y telefónica y el derecho a precios especiales concedidos a los Ministerios de la República por compañías marítimas, ferrocarrileras y aéreas , de telégrafos y teléfonos internos , nacionales , etc.

62 STAT. ] PANAMA COOPERATIVE EDUCATION- SEPT. 23, 24, 1948
El Gobierno conviene en que la Fundación Educativa Interamericana , S. A. por ser , como se ha expresado al principio , una corporación de la Oficina de Asuntos Interamericanos y entidad del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, y el personal de la Fundación gozarán de las exenciones, inmunidades, derechos y privilegios anteriormente mencionados . Los funcionarios de la Fundación que son ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos de América estarán exentos de todo impuesto panameño sobre la renta y de las contribuciones de seguro social respectivas a las rentas que están obligados a pagar al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América y de todo impuesto sobre bienes de uso personal . Dichos empleados estarán también exentos de los derechos de aduana sobre sus efectos personales , abastos y equipo que importen. o exporten para su propio uso.
11. Cualquier facultad, autoridad o función que se confiera por medio de este convenio al Ministro de Educación o al Representante Especial de la Fundación , podrá ser delegada por ellos a representantes o sustitutos suyos, con tal que tales representantes satisfagan a ambos funcionarios . 12.- El Gobierno se compromete a expedir los decretos , resoluciones y resueltos que sean necesarios para el cumplimiento de los términos de este convenio y a solicitar del Poder Legislativo la legislación que se requiera para el mismo efecto . 13. - El presente convenio estará vigente hasta el 30 de Junio de 1948, y podrá ser cancelado por cualquiera de las partes en esa fecha o en cualquier momento posterior, notificando a la otra parte por escrito por lo menos con 60 días de anticipación . En testimonio de lo cual las partes contratantes del presente han hecho ejecutar este convenio en Inglés y en Español por sus representantes debidamente autorizados, en Panamá, República de Panamá, hoy 25 de febrero de 1946 .
POR LA REPUBLICA DE PANAMA,
José D. CRESPO [SEAL]
Ministro de Educación
POR LA INTER-AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION, INC .,
KENNETH HOLLAND
Presidente.

4101

4102

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

October 19, 1948 [T. I. A. S. 2150]

Agreement between the United States of America and France respecting air service facilities at Tan-Son-Nhut airport in Indochina. Signed at Saigon October 19, 1948 ; entered into force October 19, 1948.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE U. S. A. AND THE GOVERNMENT OF FRENCH REPUBLIC.

ENCLOSURE : Inventory of Radio equipment .

The Government of the United States of America, represented by

George M. ABBOTT, American Consul General, Saigon, and the Government of the French Republic, Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Tourism Secretariat General of Civil and Commercial Aviation,

represented by Colonel Charles LAFON, Director of Civil Aviation in Indochina, have on this 19th day of October 1948, entered into the

following agreement regarding the radio equipment of American lend lease origin listed in the attached annex :
The Government of the United States of America approves the

re-transfer to the Government of the French Republic of the equipment in question by the British Government and relinquishes all title to such equipment. The Government of the French Republic in turn agrees :

Operation and maintenance of instal-

1 ° - To operate and maintain without interruption all the installa-

lations.

tions in a manner satisfactory for air traffic into and away from air-

dromes at which the facilities are located and along the international

air routes converging on those airdromes .

Service of all facilities .

2° - To provide the full service of all facilities to all aircraft on a

non-discriminatory basis with charges , if any, only for non-operational

messages , until an international agreement on charges has been

promulgated by ICAO .

Transmission of weather reports.

3 ° - To transmit weather reports in accordance with the inter-

national procedures in use at the time of the transfer of the facilities

in a manner adequate to insure an integrated meteorological network for the international air routes unless changed by international agree-

ment to which the Governments of the United States of America and

French Republic are parties .

Continuation of operation.

4º - To continue the operation of all types of facilities in their

present locations or at new locations deemed preferable by the rep-

resentatives of both Governments until (a) new facilities are in-

stalled in accordance with standards promulgated by ICAO or (b) it is

determined by the Government of French Republic and the United

States that there is no longer a need for the original facilities . It is understood that the aeronautical facilities will be devoted exclusively

to aeronautical service and will not diverted to the communication service .

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-OCT. 19, 1948

4103

Provision of Eng 5° - To provide English speaking operators at air to ground and lish speaking oper
ators. Control Tower communication positions until regulations covering
such voice transmissions are promulgated by the ICAO and further until
such regulations are promulgated to grant permission to a representa-
tive of the U. S. air carriers authorized to serve an airdrome to enter

its Control Tower and when in the opinion of the representative a case

of necessity exists to talk to the pilot of any U. S. aircraft flying in the
vicinity of the airdrome. 6° - Utilization of radio To utilize for air-ground and control tower communications frequencies allotted by

the radio frequencies allotted for such purpose by ICAO on the basis ICAO.
of International Telecommunications regulations prescribing alloca-
tions of radio frequency bands. Facilitation of ad-
7° - To authorize and facilitate day-to-day adjustments in the air justments. communication service matters by direct communication between

the Department of Civil Aviation and the service agency of the United States Government , United States air carriers , or a communi-

cation organization representing one or more of them. 8° - To authorize U. S. air carriers or the Civil Aeronautics Admin-

Technical adviser.

istration of the U. S. to designate a technical adviser to advise and

assist the agency by the French Republic Government to operate the

facilities so far as they relate to the safety and efficiency of U. S. airline

operation, this designation is to continue as long as it is useful to nue as long as it is useful to U.S. air carriers ./ . [ ' ]

Attached is a copy of the letter from the American Consul General to the British Consul General approving this transfer.

For the Government of the French Republic CH LAFON

For the Government of the United States of America
GEORGE M ABBOTT

Charles Lafon Director of Civil Aviation
in Indochina .

George M. Abbott American Consul General.

[SEAL]

[SEAL]

1 Repetition in the original . The French language text of this clause reads, in translation : "this designation is to continue as long as it is useful to United States air carriers."

4104

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Articles N°

INVENTORY OF RADIO EQUIPMENT

1 Radio Receiver, BC-445-B 2 Transmitter, BC-458-A 3 Modulator Unit, BC-456-A 4 Control Box, BC-451-A 5 Transmitter, CKP 52245-A 6 Receiver, CKP 46152-A 7 Power Unit, CKP 21881 -A 8 Loud Speaker, RCA 9 Transmitter, type BC-610-E 10 Transmitter, type ET-4336 11 Control Rack, MI-11619 12 Double Throw enclosed Safety Switches 4 pole, 60 amp 230
volts. 13 Multi Breaker Switches, type M 14 Frequency Meter, SRC-211 15 Triumph Multi Range Meter 16 Receivers Type AR 88 17 Receivers Type AR 88 18 Receivers Type AR 88 19 Receivers Type AR 88 20 Receivers Type BC- 1066 -B 21 Signal Generator, L-196-B 22 Eureka Beacon, AN/TPN/1

[Attachment]

AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL Saigon, French Indochina, Sept. 1948
FRANK S. GIBBS , Esquire, H. B. M. Consul General, Saigon.

Authorization for transfer ofequipment.

Sir and dear Colleague,
You are hereby authorized to transfer to the Government of the French Republic , represented by Colonel Charles LAFON, Director of Civil Aviation in Indochina , the American radio equipment left at TAN-SON-NHUT Airport by Royal Air Force Staging Post N° 2 at the time of its withdrawal.

This equipment includes items N° 1 to 23 on Form SPB 3-1 signed by Squadron Leader Edgar Jacques WICHT on May, 1948 An inventory of this material is attached to the agreement being entered into be-

tween the Government of the French Republic and my Government concerning future use of this equipment, a copy of which is enclosed for your information./.

Signed : GEORGE M. ABBOTT American Consul General.

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES- OCT. 19, 1948

4105

CONVENTION
entre le Gouvernement des Etats -Unis d'Amérique et le Gouvernement de la République Française
P. Jointe: 1 inventaire de matériel radio
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique représenté par M. George M. ABBOTT, Consul Général Américain à SAIGON, et
le Gouvernement de la République Française, Ministère des Travaux Publics, Transports et Tourisme, Secrétariat Général à l'Aviation Civile et Commerciale, représenté par le Colonel Charles LAFON, Directeur de l'Aviation Civile et Commerciale en Indochine, ont en
ce 19ème jour du Mois d'Octobre 1948 , signé un accord concernant l'équipement radio d'origine prêt-bail américain detaillé dans l'annexe ci -joint :
Le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique approuve la remise au Gouvernement de la République Française de l'équipement en question par le Gouvernement Britannique et abandonne tout titre de propriété au sujet de cet équipement . Le Gouvernement de la République Française de son côté s'engage:
1°/ - A exploiter et entretenir sans interruption toutes les installations de manière satisfaisante pour le trafic aérien au-dessus et au delà des aérodromes sur lesquels se trouvent les installations , et le long des routes aériennes internationales convergeant sur ces aérodromes.
2°/ - A assurer le plein service de toutes les facilités à tous les appareils sans discrimination avec frais , s'il y a lieu, seulement pour les messages hors service, jusqu'à ce qu'un accord international au sujet des frais ait été promulgué par l'O.A.C.I .
3° - A transmettre les rapports météorologiques, conformément aux procédures internationales en vigueur au moment du transfert des installations , d'une manière propre à assurer l'intégration d'un réseau métérologique aux routes aériennes internationales sauf
changement suivant accord international dont les Gouvernements des Etats-Unis d'Amérique et de la République Française seront parties contractantes .
4°/ - A poursuivre l'exploitation de tous les types de facilités dans leurs positions actuelles ou à de nouveaux emplacement jugés préférables par les représentants des deux Gouvernements jusqu'à ce que (a) de nouvelles facilités soient installées conformémemt aux standards promulgués par l'O.A.C.I. ou (b ) jusqu'à ce que le Gouvernement de la République Française et le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique estiment que les facilités d'origine ne sont plus nécessaires. Il est entendu que les facilités aéronautiques seront consacrées uni-

4106

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

quement au service aéronautique et ne seront pas utilisées au profit du service de communication .

5°/ - A pourvoir d'opérateurs parlant anglais des postes de communications Air/Sol et de la Tour de Contrôle jusqu'à ce qu'une réglementation concernant ces transmissions vocales soit promulguée par l'O.A.C.I. , et de plus jusqu'à ce que des règlements soient promulgués autorisant un représentant des transporteurs aériens des Etats-Unis autorisés à desservir un aérodrome, à pénétrer dans la Tour de Con-

trôle et lorsque , de l'avis du représentant, il s'avère nécessaire , à parler au pilote de tout appareil des Etats-Unis volant à proximité de l'aé rodrome .

6°/- A utiliser pour les communications Air/Sol et Tour de Contrôle les fréquences radio attribuées dans ce but par l'O.A.C.I. sur la base des règlementations internationales des Télécommunications prescrivant les attributions de bandes de fréquences radio.
7°/ - A autoriser et faciliter les mises au point au jour le jour des questions concernant le service de communication aéronautique par contact direct entre la Direction de l'Aéronautique Civile en Indochine et l'Administration compétente du Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, Transporteurs Aériens des Etats-Unis où un organisme de communication représentant un ou plusieurs d'entre eux.
8°/ - A autorisér les transporteurs aériens des Etats-Unis ou la Direction de l'Aéronautique Civile des Etats-Unis à désigner un technicien pour conseiller et aider le service désigné par le Gouvernement de la République Française pour exploiter les facilités dans la mesure où elles concernent la sécurité et l'efficacité du fonctionnement des

lignes aériennes des Etats-Unis, cette affectation se continuera aussi longtemps qu'elle s'avèrera utile aux transporteurs aériens des EtatsUnis .

Ci-joint une copie de la lettre du Consul Général d'Amérique au Consul Général Britannique à SAIGON, approuvant ce transfert.

Pour le Gouvernement de la République Française , CH LAFON

Pour le Gouvernement des Etats-Unis d'Amérique, GEORGE M ABBOTT

Charles Lafon
Directeur de l'Aéronautique Civile en Indochine

George M. Abbott Consul Général Américain

[SEAL]

[SEAL]

62 STAT. ] FRANCE-AIR SERVICE FACILITIES-OCT. 19, 1948

Article No

INVENTAIRE DE L'EQUIPEMENT RADIO

1 Radio Receiver, BC-445-B 2 Transmitter, BC-458 -A 3 Modulator Unit, BC-456-A 4 Control Box, BC-451 -A 5 Transmitter, CKP 52245-A 6 Receiver, CKP 46152-A 7 Power Unit, CKP 21881 -A 8 Loud Speaker, RCA 9 Transmitter, type BC-610-E 10 Transmitter, type ET-4336 11 Control Rack, MI- 11619 12 Double Throw enclosed Safety Switches 4 pole, 60 amp 230
wolts. 13 Multi Breaker Switches , type M 14 Frequency Meter, SRC-211 15 Triumph Multi Range Meter 16 Receivers Type AR 88 17 Receivers Type AR 88 18 Receivers Type AR 88 19 Receivers Type AR 88 20 Receivers Type BC- 1066-B 21 Signal Generator, L-196-B 22 Eureka Beacon, AN/TPN/1

[Attachment]

CONSULAT GÉNÉRAL AMÉRICAIN

Saigon, Indochine Française, Sept. 1948

Monsieur FRANK S. GIBBS

Consul Général de Sa Majesté Britannique

Saigon.

!

MONSIEUR ET CHER COLLÈGUE,

Vous êtes par la présente, autorisé à transférer au Gouvernement de la République Française, représenté par le Colonel Charles LAFON , Directeur de l'Aéronautique Civile en Indochine, l'équipement radio que le Poste d'Escale N° 2 de la Royal Air Force a laissé au moment de son départ à l'Aéroport de TAN-Son-Nhut.
Cet équipement comprend les articles 1 à 23 figurant sur l'imprimé SPB 3-1 signé par le Squadron Leader Edger Jacques WICHT le 11 Mai 1948. Un inventaire de ce matériel est joint à l'Accord convenu entre le Gouvernement de la République Française et mon Gouvernement concernant l'utilisation future de ce matériel dont je vous joins copie pour information.
Signe: GEORGE M. ABBOTT Consul Général Américain.

4107

4108

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

April 8, 9, 11 , 23, 1946 [T. I. A. S. 2157]

Agreement between the United States of America and Uruguay respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Uruguay, modifying and extending the agreement of October 1 and November 1 , 1943. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Montevideo April 8 and 23, 1946; entered into force April 23, 1946; operative January 1 , 1947. And exchange of letters signed at Montevideo April 9 and 11 , 1946.

58 Stat. 1434.

The American Ambassador to the Uruguayan Minister ofForeign Relations

No. 38 EXCELLENCY :

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Montevideo, April 8 , 1946

I have the honor to refer to the note of the Acting Secretary of

State of the United States of America of October 1 , 1943, and to the

reply of His Excellency the Ambassador of Uruguay in Washington,

relative to the cooperative program of public health and sanitation provided for by Resolution XXX approved at the Third Meeting of

the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics held at Rio de Janeiro in January, 1942. Pursuant to this exchange of notes, the Executive Vice-President of The Institute of Inter-American

Affairs, an agency of the Government of the United States of America,

addressed under date of November 13, 1943 , a communication to His

Excellency the Minister of Public Health, ['] in which he outlined the terms and conditions under which The Institute of Inter-American

Affairs would be prepared to carry out a cooperative program of

public health and sanitation in the Republic of Uruguay. This proposal was accepted by the Minister of Public Health on November 17, 1943 ,[ ] and under these arrangements the health and sanitation program has been successfully carried out in Uruguay.

More recently there have been conversations between the Chief of

Field Party of The Institute and His Excellency the Minister of

Public Health with a view to examining the possibilities of extending the period and scope of the program . Under date of August 29, 1945, the Minister of Public Health addressed the President of The Insti-

tute of Inter-American Affairs [' ] expressing the belief that the

program should be continued through the calendar year 1947. My Government has given most sympathetic consideration to this
matter and I am pleased to be able to inform Your Excellency that it is prepared to cooperate with Your Excellency's Government in extending the program in Uruguay and to make available additional funds

for that purpose . The period of extension , the sums to be made

available by both Governments, and any additional details with regard to the continuance and scope of the program would be worked out by mutual agreement between the Minister of Public Health and

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] URUGUAY-HEALTH AND SANITATION--APR. 8, 9, 11, 23, 1946

Mr. Clarence I. Sterling, Jr. , representing The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, and would be incorporated, as in the previous

instance, in a written agreement between the Ministry and the Institute .

Accept, Excellency , the renewed assurances of my highest con-

sideration .

WILLIAM DAWSON

To His Excellency Sr. Dr. don EDUARDO RODRÍGUEZ LARRETA, Minister of Foreign Relations, Montevideo .

The Uruguayan Minister of Foreign Relations to the American Ambassador

D.I.I.C.C. 910/943-316SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

MINISTERIO DE
RELACIONES EXTERIORES
MONTEVIDEO, abril 23 de 1946.

Tengo el agrado de acusar recibo de la nota Nº 38 , de fecha 8 del mes en curso, por la que tuvo a bien hacerme saber que el Gobierno de Vuestra Excelencia está dispuesto a cooperar con el del Uruguay para extender el programa cooperativo de salud pública y sanidad previsto por la Resolución XXX aprobada en la Tercera Reunión de los Ministros de Relaciones Exteriores de las Repúblicas Americanas y proporcionar fondos adicionales con ese fin.
Al agradecer a V. E. los buenos propósitos que animan al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos , cúmpleme expresarle que en esta fecha trasmito copia de la nota que contesto al Ministerio de Salud Pública.
Reitero al señor Embajador las seguridades de mi muy alta consideración.
Por el Ministro ALFREDO PACHECO Alfredo Pacheco Director de Secciones
en ejercicio de la Dirección General

Al Excelentísimo Señor WILLIAM DAWSON,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de América.

4109

4110 Ante, p. 4108.

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Translation

MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN RELATIONS

D.I.I.C.C. 910/943-316MR. AMBASSADOR :

MONTEVIDEO, April 23, 1946.

I take pleasure in acknowledging receipt of note No. 38 of the 8th of the current month, in which you were good enough to inform me that Your Excellency's Government is prepared to cooperate with

Uruguay in extending the public health and sanitation program contemplated by Resolution XXX adopted at the Third Meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics and in allocating additional funds for that purpose.
Thanking Your Excellency for the good intentions shown by the Government of the United States , I am to inform you that I am today transmitting to the Ministry of Public Health a copy of the note to which this is the reply.
I renew to the Ambassador the assurances of my highest consideration .
For the Minister ALFREDO PACHECO Alfredo Pacheco Division Director
Acting Director General His Excellency
WILLIAM DAWSON, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America.

58 Stat. 1434.

The Representative of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs to the Uruguayan Minister of Public Health

THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS DIVISION OF HEALTH AND SANITATION

18 DE JULIO 2083 MONTEVIDEO-URUGUAY

MONTEVIDEO, April 9, 1946

Dr. FRANCISCO FORTEZA Minister of Public Health Oriental Republic of Uruguay Montevideo .

DEAR MR. MINISTER : I have the honor to refer to the agreement concluded in November
1943 between the Oriental Republic of Uruguay, acting through the Minister of Public Health of the Government of Uruguay, and the United States of America, represented by The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, a corporation of the Office of Inter-American Affairs and an agency of the Government of the United States of America, acting through the Executive Vice President of the Institute of InterAmerican Affairs . The agreement referred to provided for the in-

62 STAT. ] URUGUAY-HEALTH AND SANITATION-APR. 8, 9, 11, 23, 1946

4111

auguration and execution of a cooperative health and sanitation program in Uruguay in conformity with Resolution XXX, approved at the Third Meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American Republics held in Rio de Janeiro in January 1942 .
The agreement of November 1943 arose out of correspondence on November 13 , 17 , and 18 , 1943, [ '] between General Goerge C. Dunham, as Executive Vice President of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs and Sr. Dr. don Luis Mattiauda, as Uruguayan Minister of Public Health, which exchange of correspondence was based upon an exchange of diplomatic notes under dates of October 1 , 1943 and November 1 , 1943 , between the Honorable A. A. Berle, Jr. , as Acting Secretary of State, on behalf of the United States of America, and Sr. Dr. don Juan Carlos Blanco , Ambassador of Uruguay to the United States of America, on behalf of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.
I have the further honor to refer to the letter dated August 29 , 1945 from Sr. Dr. don Luis Mattiauda, the Uruguayan Minister of Public Health, to General George C. Dunham , President of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, proposing the extension of the health and sanitation program , and to recent conversations which have taken place between you , as Minister of Public Health of the Government of Uruguay, and Dr. H. Jackson Davis , as the Chief of Field Party in Uruguay of the Health and Sanitation Division of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , concerning the possibility of extending such program .
As the duly authorized representative of The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs, I have the honor of informing you , Mr. Minister, that the Government of the United States of America, as represented by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , is in agreement with the proposal that the cooperative program of health and sanitation be extended, and I therefore have the pleasure officially to propose to you, Mr. Minister, the continuation of the mentioned cooperative health and sanitation program being carried out in Uruguay, upon the following terms and conditions :

58 Stat. 1434.

1. The contribution of the parties called for in the agreement of November 1943 , which may not yet have been made upon the effective date of this proposed extension agreement , shall be paid over in accordance with the provisions of the agreement of November 1943 , to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública (hereinafter called the "S.C.I.S.P. " ) , which is the special entity within and subordinated to the Ministry of Public Health of the Uruguayan Government and through which the cooperative program of health and sanitation is being carried out.
2. In addition to the contribution of One Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($ 100,000) U. S. currency on the part of the Government of Uruguay and the contribution of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) U. S. currency on the part of The Institute of InterAmerican Affairs required to be made to the cooperative health and sanitation program by the parties to the agreement of November

S. C. I. S. P. Additional funds.

1 Not printed.

4112

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

58 Stat. 1434. Installments.

1943, there shall be deposited to the order of the S.C.I.S.P. in its bank account in Montevideo, Uruguay, the sum of One Hundred and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($ 150,000) U. S. currency by the Oriental Republic of Uruguay and the sum of Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ($75,000) U. S. currency by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
3. The additional funds mentioned in the preceding clause 2 shall

be deposited as aforesaid to the order of the S.C.I.S.P. by installments at such times and in such amounts as shall be mutually agreed upon by the Minister of Public Health and the Chief of Field Party

in Uruguay of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, each install-

ment to be paid in the proportion of the equivalent of $2.00 U. S.

currency on the part of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay for every

$1.00 U. S. currency on the part of The Institute of Inter-American

Purchases in the U.S.

Affairs . 4. In view of the fact that many purchases of materials and supplies
for the cooperative health and sanitation program must necessarily be

made in the United States by The Institute of Inter-American Affairs,

the contributions of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs to the

S. C. I. S. P. pursuant to the agreement of November 1943, and this proposed extension agreement, shall include the cost of acquiring and

transporting such materials and supplies to Uruguay for use in carrying out projects approved by the Minister of Public Health and the Chief

of Party of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs.

5. Apart from the modifications in the amount and proportion of the contribution of funds as required by clause 2 and the designation of the termination date as provided by clause 7, the aforesaid coopera-

tive health and sanitation program in Uruguay shall continue to be carried out in conformity with the mentioned agreement of November 1943 as well as Executive Decree No. 9266 dated November 14, 1944

specifically issued with respect to such agreement and such program shall also continue to be carried out in accordance with all the rules,

regulations and policies established and to be established pursuant to said agreement of November 1943. All provisions of the agreement of November 1943 shall be continued during the existence of the proposed extension agreement in so far as they are not inconsistent with or have

Exemptions and privileges .

not been specifically modified by the terms hereof. 6. Continuance is provided , likewise, for the duration of the ex-
tended agreement , of all exemptions and privileges granted to officials

of The Institute of Inter-American Affairs appointed for the coopera-

tive health and sanitation program and who will carry out their

functions in Uruguay, temporarily or permanently, who will enjoy the benefits granted to the S. C. I. S. P. and its officials and the exemption

58 Stat. 1434. Effective date.

of customs and import duties on personal effects, equipment and provisions which they import or cause to be imported for their ownfuse, in accordance with what was established in said agreement of November 1943 .
7. The agreement to extend the cooperative health and sanitation program as herein proposed , shall become effective after the terms hereof have been accepted in writing by you, as Minister of Public Health of Uruguay, and after the legislation, decrees and resolutions

62 STAT. ] URUGUAY- HEALTH AND SANITATION- APR. 8, 9, 11, 23, 1946

4113

which may be necessary from the constitutional , legal and administrative viewpoint for the fulfillment of the extended agreement have been issued by the competent authorities of the Republic .
The extended agreement shall remain in force until December 31 , 1947 .

Duration.

If this proposal is acceptable to the Government of Uruguay, this letter and the acceptance thereof by the Government of Uruguay will constitute a binding and effective agreement between the Oriental Republic of Uruguay and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs , an agency of the Government of the United States of America , in accordance with the terms thereof.
I take this opportunity to extend to you, Mr. Minister, the assurances of my highest consideration.
The Institute of Inter-American Affairs

By : CLARENCE I. STERLING, Jr. Representative
Certified True Copy H JACKSON DAVIS Chief of Field Party

The Uruguayan Minister of Public Health to the Representative of The
Institute of Inter-American Affairs Q N 289630 REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
MINISTERIO DE
SALUD PUBLICA

Nota. 5687

MONTEVIDEO abril 11 de 1946

Señor Delegado del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos Ingeniero CLARENCE STERLING
DE MI CONSIDERACIÓN :
Tengo el agrado de llevar a su conocimiento que el Poder Ejecutivo de la Nación en la sesión del Consejo de Ministros realizada el 10 del corriente tomando en consideración la nota del Instituto de Asuntos
Interamericanos de los Estados Unidos de Norte América que usted representa, resolvió aceptar la extensión hasta el 31 de diciembre de 1947 del convenio celebrado en noviembre de 1943 , relacionado con el programa de salud y sanidad a desarrollarse en el Uruguay.-
El Consejo de Ministros impuesto de los términos de su nota, asi como de la obra realizada con la colaboración del Instituto Interamericano, acordó, por unanimidad de votos , dejar expresa constancia de los resultados alcanzados en esa materia y expresar a la vez que desea seguir manteniendo ese nexo con el Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano con lo cual quedó aprobada la prórroga del convenio , autorizando a esta Secretaría de Estado para suscribir el nuevo compromiso en representación del Poder Ejecutivo.-

4114

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Me complazco en acompañar testimonio del acta correspondiente del Consejo de Ministros y expresarle en consecuencia, que el Ministerio de Salud Pública a mi cargo presta su aprobación a los términos de la proposición contenida en su referida carta del 9 del corriente.-
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterar al señor Delegado las expresiones de mi particular consideración.-
FS FORTEZA Dr Francisco S. Forteza Ministro de Salud Publica.-
N No 240207 PRESIDENCIA DE LA REPUBLICA
SECRETARIA
TESTIMONIO:- Copia del Acta N° 433 correspondiente a la Sesión celebrada por el Consejo de Ministros el 10 de abril de 1946: "Poco después , el señor Ministro de Salud Pública dió cuenta que se encontraba en nuestra capital el señor Clarence I. Sterling, representante del Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos de Estados Unidos, quien, de acuerdo con las gestiones iniciadas oportunamente por el ex Ministro doctor Mattiauda , y proseguidas por la Secretaría de Estado actualmente a su cargo, proponía la continuación, por un año más, en el Uruguay, del programa de medicina preventiva que se realiza con la colaboración de ese Instituto y que vence el 31 de diciembre próximo.- Agregó el doctor Forteza que, si bien con anterioridad a la firma de dicho convenio , ya se había iniciado esa lucha en nuestro
país , sus resultados han sido mucho mas positivos , desde que se cuenta con la colaboración de la mencionada entidad, no porque se carezca aquí de técnicos , desde que existen profesionales muy capacitados en la materia , sino por la orientación de los métodos que lleva a la práctica.- Prosiguió diciendo que el convenio , aparte de su carácter científico , encierra una finalidad simbólica , como tuvo oportunidad de ponerlo de manifiesto en el Senado cuando se aprobó el proyecto primitivo , pues viene a constituir un exponente más de la política de buena vecindad iniciada por el Presidente Roosevelt.Por lo tanto , el doctor Forteza propuso que el Consejo declarase que la obra realizada con motivo de este convenio ha sido beneficiosa
para el país y que se desea seguir manteniendo este nexo con el Servicio Cooperativo Americano , lo que fué compartido por unanimidad, quedando , en consecuencia aprobada dicha prórroga y autorizado el señor Ministro para firmar con el Sr. Sterling el documento respectivo .-"-
Concuerda fielmente lo testimoniado con el original de su tenor obrante en el Libro de Actas del Consejo de Ministros de la República Oriental del Uruguay.-
JULIAN F ALVAREZ C Dr. Julian F. Alvarez Cortés Secretario del Consejo de Ministros

62 STAT. ] URUGUAY-HEALTH AND SANITATION- APR. 8, 9, 11, 23, 1946

4115

Q No. 289630 REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
MINISTRY OF
PUBLIC HEALTH
Note 5687

Translation MONTEVIDEO April 11 , 1946

Mr. CLARENce Sterling Representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs

DEAR SIR :
I have the honor to inform you that at the meeting of the Council of Ministers held on the 10th of this month to consider the note of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the United States of America, which you represent, the Executive Power of the Nation resolved to accept the extension to December 31 , 1947 of the agreement concluded in November 1943 concerning the health and sanitation program to be carried out in Uruguay.
Being informed of the terms of your note, as well as of the work accomplished with the collaboration of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs , the Council of Ministers unanimously agreed especially to note in the records the results achieved in that field and at the same time to express their desire to continue maintaining that bond with the Inter-American Cooperative Service, and the extension of the agreement was thus approved and this Ministry of State was authorized to sign the new agreement in representation of the Executive Power.
I am pleased to transmit herewith a certified copy of the respective act of the Council of Ministers and to state to you that the Ministry of Public Health under my direction gives its approval to the terms of the proposal contained in your letter of the 9th of this month , referred to above.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to you the assurances of my special consideration.

58 Stat. 1434.

FS FORTEZA

Dr Francisco S. Forteza Minister of Public Health.-

[Enclosure]

=

N No. 240207 OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE REPUBLIC
SECRETARIAT

Translation

CERTIFIED COPY : -Copy of Act No. 433 , corresponding to the meeting held by the Council of Ministers on April 10 , 1946 : "A little later , the Minister of Public Health stated that Mr. Clarence I.
68706-52- PT. III- 95

4116

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
Sterling, representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs of the United States , was in our capital city and that in accordance with steps initiated at the opportune time by Dr. Mattiauda, the former Minister, and continued by the Ministry at present under his direction , he was proposing the continuation for another year of the program of preventive medicine which is being carried out in Uruguay in collaboration with that Institute and which will expire December 31 next. Dr. Forteza added that although even before the said agree-
ment was signed that campaign had been started in our country, its results have been much more positive since we had the cooperation of the aforementioned agency, not because there is a lack of technicians here, for we have very able professionals in this field, but because of the orientation of methods that is being put into practice. He continued saying that the agreement, aside from its scientific character, embodies a symbolic aim, as he had opportunity to point out in the Senate when the original project was approved, because it constitutes
another manifestation of the Good Neighbor Policy initiated by President Roosevelt . Therefore Dr. Forteza proposed that the Council declare that the work accomplished through this agreement has been beneficial to the country and that it is desired to continue to maintain this link with the Inter-American Cooperative Service; this proposal was unanimously accepted and consequently the said extension was approved and the Minister was authorized to sign the respective document with Mr. Sterling ."
The foregoing is a true and faithful copy of the original that appears in the Minutes of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Uruguay.
JULIÁN F ALVAREZ C
Dr. Julian F. Alvarez Cortés Secretary of the Council of Ministers

Nov. 10, 1947 62 STAT. ] URUGUAY- HEALTH AND SANITATION- Jan. 3, 1948

4117

Agreement between the United States of America and Uruguay respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Uruguay, supplementing and extending the agreement of October 1 and November 1 , 1943, as modified and extended. Effected by exchange of notes signed at Montevideo November 10, 1947, and January 3, 1948; entered into force January 3, 1948; operative retroactively January 1 , 1948. And agreement between the Government of Uruguay and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs signed at Montevideo January 3, 1948.

November 10, 1947, and January 3, 1948
[T. I. A. S. 2158]

The American Ambassador to the Uruguayan Minister for Foreign Affairs

No. 194

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Montevideo, Uruguay, November 10, 1947

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the exchange of notes between the

Honorable A. A. Berle, Jr. , Acting Secretary of State of the United States of America, and His Excellency Dr. Juan Carlos Blanco,

Ambassador of Uruguay to the Government of the United States of America, on October 1 , and November 1 , 1943 , respectively, con-

cerning the establishment of a cooperative program of health and sanitation in Uruguay. It will be recalled that my Government

agreed to send a small staff of experts and technicians to Uruguay to cooperate with officials of the Uruguayan Government in the execu-

tion of the proposed program in conformity with detailed arrangements subsequently to be effected by agreement between the Government of Uruguay and the Institute .

Following the exchange of the above communications , details with

regard to the execution of the program were agreed to by the Minister of Public Health of Uruguay and the Executive Vice President of the Institute, in accordance with which there was established within the

Ministry of Public Health the Servicio Cooperativo Inter-Americano de Salud Pública through which the cooperative program has been

administered . These arrangements subsequently were modified to provide, among other things, for additional contributions to the co-

operative program by the parties and for the extension of the program until December 31 , 1947.

It has been suggested that the cooperative program of health and

sanitation in Uruguay be extended and I now have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that The Institute of Inter-

American Affairs is agreeable to the extension of the program for a

period from the expiration date of the present agreement, which is December 31 , 1947, through June 30, 1948 , with the understanding that the unexpended portion of funds heretofore contributed and those to be contributed by the two parties for the execution of the
68706-52---PT. III- 96

58 Stat. 1434.

4118

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.
program will continue to be available therefor and will be sufficient to permit the continuation of the program until June 30, 1948, without further contribution of project funds by the Institute.
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed arrangement as outlined above is acceptable to your Government , I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as possible in order that final arrangements for signing the Extension Agreement may be made by officials of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurance of my highest and most distinguished consideration.
ELLIS O. BRIGGS
To His Excellency Señor Don MATEO MARQUES CASTRO, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Montevideo.

The Uruguayan Minister for Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador MINISTERIO DE
RELACIONES EXTERIORES

D.I.I.C.C. 910/943-5-

MONTEVIDEO, enero 8 de 1948.

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Con referencia a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia N° 194 , de fecha 10

de noviembre próximo pasado , relacionada con el establecimiento de un programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay, tengo el

honor de remitirle adjunto a la presente, copia de la Resolución presidencial de fecha 30 de diciembre de 1947, por la cual se autoriza al Ministerio de Salud Pública a prestar aprobación, en nombre del

Gobierno de la República, a la propuesta formulada por el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos para prorrogar hasta el 30 de junio de 1948

el Convenio existente entre el Gobierno de la República y ese Instituto.

Aprovecho esta oportunidad para reiterar a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi muy alta consideración.

Por el Ministro ALFREDO PACHECO
Alfredo Pacheco

Director General

Al Excelentísimo Señor ELLIS O. BRIGGS, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de America. Presente.

62 STAT. ]

URUGUAY- HEALTH AND SANITATION- Nov. 10, 1947 Jan. 3, 1948

4119

Translation

D.I.I.C.C. 910/943-5-

MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
MONTEVIDEO, January 3, 1948.

MR. AMBASSADOR :

With reference to Your Excellency's note No. 194 of November 10 last concerning the preparation of a cooperative health and sanitation program in Uruguay, I have the honor to transmit to you herewith a copy of the Presidential Decree of December 30 , 1947 , [' ] authorizing the Ministry of Public Health to approve, in the name of the Government of the Republic, the proposal made by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs to extend to June 30 , 1948 the present Agreement between the Government of the Republic and that Institute .

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my very high consideration .

For the Minister ALFREDO PACHECO
Alfredo Pacheco Director General

Ante, p. 4117.

His Excellency ELLIS O. BRIGGS, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. City.
I Not printed.

4120

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

JANUARY 3, 1948 EXTENSION AGREEMENT

This EXTENSION AGREEMENT between the República Oriental del

Uruguay (hereinafter called the "Republic") represented by the Minister of Public Health of the Republic (hereinafter referred to as the "Minister") , and The Institute of Inter-American Affairs, a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States of

America (hereinafter called the "Institute") represented by Dr. H. Jackson Davis, Chief of Field Party, Health and Sanitation Divi-

sion of the Institute in Uruguay (hereinafter called the "Chief of Field Party") , is entered into for, the purpose of extending and modifying the cooperative health and sanitation program which was jointly undertaken by the Republic and the Institute pursuant to the agreement entered into between the Republic and the Institute, as embodied in the exchange of correspondence between the Executive Vice President of the Institute and the Minister of Public Health of

the Republic on November 13, 17 and 18, 1943, [ ] respectively, as supplemented and modified by the agreement contained in the exchange of correspondence dated April 9 and 11, 1946 between the

Basic Agreement. Ante, p. 4108.

Institute, represented by Mr. Clarence I. Sterling Jr., and the Republic, represented by the Minister of Public Health, which agreement was accepted pursuant to Decree No. 12389 of the Executive Branch dated April 25, 1946 (all of such correspondence being here-

inafter collectively referred to as the Basic Agreement) .

Extension.

CLAUSE I
The parties hereto mutually intend, agree and declare that the term of the Basic Agreement be and hereby is extended for an additional period of six months beginning the first day of January, 1948 and terminating the thirtieth day of June, 1948.

Chief of Field Party.

CLAUSE II The Institute shall continue to maintain in the Republic of Uruguay

during the term of this Extension Agreement, a group of its officials and technicians which shall continue to be under the direction ofthe

Chief of Field Party who shall be acceptable to the Republic and who shall be the representative of the Institute in Uruguay in connection with the cooperative program of health and sanitation to be carried out in accordance with this Extension Agreement.

S. C. I. S. P. Ante, p . 4108.

CLAUSE III
The special service created in the Ministry of Public Health of Uruguay, pursuant to the Basic Agreement, under the name of "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública" (hereinafter called "S.C.I.S.P. " ) , shall continue to act as an intermediary between the Government of the Republic and the Institute, and shall continue to be charged with the execution of the cooperative program of health and sanitation in Uruguay in accordance with the Basic Agreement
and this Extension Agreement. The Chief of Field Party of the

1 Not printed.

62 STAT. ] URUGUAY- HEALTH AND SANITATION-- Nov. 10, 1947 Jan. 3, 1948

4121

Institute shall continue to serve as director of the S.C.I.S.P. for the period comprehended by the Extension Agreement .
CLAUSE IV
The cooperative program of health and sanitation in Uruguay shall continue to consist of individual projects . The nature and extent of each project and the distribution of the funds for the execution thereof shall be determined and agreed upon in writing by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party , and shall be carried out by the Director of S.C.I.S.P. in conformity with policies prescribed jointly by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party.

Projects.

CLAUSE V

Obligation ofthe The parties hereto acknowledge that the obligation of the Republic Republic.
under the Basic Agreement for the cooperative program of health Ante, p. 4108.

and sanitation in Uruguay is $250,000 U. S. , and that the obligation

of the Institute under the Basic Agreement for the same program is

Obligation ofthe Institute.

$ 575,000 U. S. , and agree that the contributions of the parties called for in the Basic Agreement which may not have been made upon the effective date of this Extension Agreement shall be paid over in accordance with the Basic Agreement. The parties further agree that the unexpended portion of the funds contributed or to be contributed pursuant to the Basic Agreement will continue to remain available

Unexpended funds.

to further finance the cooperative program of health and sanitation in

Uruguay during the period established by this Extension Agreement . It is further understood and agreed that no contribution by the Insti-

tute to the cooperative program of health and sanitation in Uruguay in addition to those required to be made in accordance with the

Basic Agreement are contemplated by this Extension Agreement.

CLAUSE VI
Salaries and exThe salaries, living allowances, travel expenses and any other penses. amounts payable directly to , or on account of, the members of the

field party of the Institute shall continue to be paid by the Institute from funds of the Institute other than those referred to in Clause V

of this Extension Agreement which are required to be deposited to the account of the S.C.I.S.P. in accordance with the Basic Agreement.

Ante, p. 4108,

CLAUSE VII
Rights and privileges All rights and privileges enjoyed by official government departments granted S. C. I. S. P.
and others of the Government of the Republic of Uruguay and by the
personnel and employees of the same, shall continue to be granted to the S.C.I.S.P. and to its personnel and employees for the duration of this Extension Agreement . Such rights and privileges shall include for
example and not exclusively, free mailing privileges , telephone and telegraph services , free transportation on railways administered by the Uruguayan Government, and the right to such reductions or
Tax, etc., exemppreferential rates as are granted to Uruguayan Government. depart- ti ments by national marine or river navigation companies, air transportation, telegraph and telephone rates . etc.. and also freedom and ex-

4122

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.

emption from excise, stamp , consular fees, property, and any all other taxes.

Privileges and im-
munities granted the Institute .

CLAUSE VIII
The Republic of Uruguay recognizes and accepts the Institute as a corporate instrumentality of the Government of the United States

of America and, accordingly, agrees that the Institute will enjoy the same rights , privileges and immunities as are accorded to official government departments of the Government of the Republic of Uruguay with respect to operations of the Institute which are related

to , or property which is to be used for, the cooperative program of health and sanitation in Uruguay. Continuance is provided, like-

wise, during the term of this Extension Agreement of the exemption of all employees of the Institute who are citizens of the United States

of America and who are engaged in carrying out the objectives of the cooperative program of health and sanitation in Uruguay from all

income taxes and social security taxes with respect to income on

which they are obliged to pay income or social security taxes to the Government of the United States, of America and from property

taxes on personal property intended for their own use. Employees of the Institute and members of their families with them in Uruguay

also shall be exempt from the payment of customs and import duties on their personal effects and supplies imported for their own use.

Administration. Ante, p . 4108 .

CLAUSE IX
The general policies inaugurated pursuant to the Basic Agreement, or to be inaugurated pursuant to the Extension Agreement, for the execution of the cooperative program of health and sanitation in Uruguay, including, but not limited to, the making of contracts, disbursement and accounting of funds deposited to the account of S.C.I.S.P. employment and payment of salaries of personnel of S.C.I.S.P. , the purchase, use, inventory, control and disposition of property, and any other administrative matters , shall , during the term of this Extension Agreement , be continued , determined or
established subject to mutual agreement between the Minister and the Director of S.C.I.S.P.
CLAUSE X

Disposition of property , etc. , at termina-
tAigorneemoefntE.xtension

All materials, equipment and supplies purchased with funds of the S.C.I.S.P. shall become the property of the Republic and any property acquired by S.C.I.S.P. which is not expended , used or obligated at

the termination of the period fixed by this Extension Agreement shall

remain the property of the Republic and shall be devoted to the

cooperative program of health and sanitation in Uruguay in such manner as may be agreed upon in writing by the Minister and the Chief of Field Party. Any funds of S.C.I.S.P. remaining at the close of the cooperative program of health and sanitation in Uruguay shall be disposed of in such manner and for such purposes as may be mutually agreed upon by the Minister and The Chief of Field Party.

Nov. 10, 1947 62 STAT.] URUGUAY-HEALTH AND SANITATION-
Jan. 3, 1948

4123

CLAUSE XI

Any rights, powers, or duties conferred by this Extension Agreement

Delegation of powers.

upon either the Minister, the Chief of Field Party, or the Director of

the S.C.I.S.P. , may be delegated in writing by the recipient thereof

to their respective representatives , provided that such representatives

are satisfactory to the other parties.

CLAUSE XII

The books and accounts of the S.C.I.S.P. shall be available at any

Availability of accounts for inspection,

time for inspection or audit by any appropriate agency of the Govern- etc.

ment of the Republic of Uruguay and by the Institute. The Director of S.C.I.S.P. shall continue to furnish to the Minister and to the

Chief of Field Party any information which may be desired concerning the S.C.I.S.P. or its activities, and shall render reports to the Government of Uruguay and to the Institute at such intervals as may be agreed upon between the Minister and the Chief of Field Party.

Reports.

CLAUSE XIII

The Government of Uruguay will obtain the necessary legislation, decrees , orders or resolutions necessary to carry out the terms of this Extension Agreement.
CLAUSE XIV
This Extension Agreement shall supplement the provisions of the Basic Agreement, the terms and provisions of which, insofar as they are not contrary to or inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Extension Agreement shall continue in full force and effect during the term covered by this Extension Agreement.

Legislation.
Force and effect. Ante, p. 4108.

CLAUSE XV

This Extension Agreement shall become effective as soon as diplomatic notes confirming and accepting this Extension Agreement have been exchanged by the Minister of Foreign Relations of the Republic and the Ambassador of the United States of America to Uruguay or upon the date of execution hereof in the event that

diplomatic notes approving the extension of the cooperative program

of health and sanitation in Uruguay, as herein provided , have been exchanged prior to the date of execution of this Extension Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Extension Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives, in duplicate in the English and Spanish language, at Montevideo , Uruguay, this third day of January, 1948

FOR THE REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY

FOR THE INSTITUTE OF INTERAMERICAN AFFAIRS

Effective date.

ENRIQUE M. CLAVEAUX Enrique M. Claveaux Minister ofPublic Health

H. JACKSON DAVIS H. Jackson Davis Chief ofField Party

4124

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.
PRORROGA DE CONVENIO ENERO 3 , 1948
La presente PRORROGA DE CONVENIO entre la República Oriental del Uruguay (en adelante llamada " República" ) representada por su Ministro de Salud Pública (en adelante citado como el "Ministro " ), y el Instituto de Asuntos Interamericanos (en adelante llamado el "Instituto") , una corporación del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, representado por el Dr. H. Jackson Davis, Jefe de Misión, División de Salud y Sanidad del Instituto en el Uruguay (en adelante llamado el "Jefe de Misión" ) , es celebrada con el objeto de extender y modificar el programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad que fué emprendido conjuntamente por la República y el Instituto en el intercambio
de notas entre el Vice Presidente Ejecutivo del Instituto y el Ministro de Salud Pública de la República en Noviembre 13, 17 y 18 de 1943, respectivamente, y de acuerdo a la suplementación y modificación por el convenio contenidoenel intercambio de notas fechadas Abril 9 y 11 , 1946 entre el Instituto , representado por el Sr. Clarence I. Sterling (hijo) y la República representada por el Ministro de Salud Pública, cuyo convenio fué aceptado de conformidad con el Decreto No. 12389 del Poder Ejecutivo de la República, de fecha Abril 25 de 1946 (toda dicha correspondencia siendo en adelante globalmente designada como el "Convenio Básico") .
Cláusula I
Las partes tienen la intención , acuerdan y declaran reciprocamente que el término del Convenio Básico sea y por el presente quede extendido por un período adicional de seis meses comenzando el primer día de Enero de 1948 y finalizando el trigésimo día de Junio de 1948.
Cláusula II
El Instituto seguirá manteniendo en la República del Uruguay durante el término de esta Prorroga de Convenio, un grupo de sus funcionarios y técnicos, el que continuará bajo la dirección de un Jefe de Misión, que deberá ser aceptable a la República y quien será el representante del Instituto en el Uruguay en relación con el programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad a llevarse a cabo de acuerdo con esta Prorroga de Convenio.
Cláusula III
El servicio especial creado en el Ministerio de Salud Pública del Uruguay, de conformidad con el Covenio Básico , bajo el nombre del "Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Pública" (en adelante llamado S.C.I.S.P. ) , seguirá actuando como intermedario entre el Gobierno de la República y el Instituto, y continuará encargandose de la ejecución del programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay de acuerdo con el Convenio Básico y esta Prorroga de Convenio . El Jefe de Misión del Instituto continuará sirviendo como Director del S.C.I.S.P. durante el período comprendido por esta Prorroga de Convenio .

62 STAT. ]

Nov. 10, 1947 URUGUAY- HEALTH AND SANITATION-
Jan. 3, 1948
Clausula IV

El programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay continuará consistiendo en proyectos individuales . La naturaleza y
alcance de cada proyecto y la distribución de los fondos para la ejecución del mismo serán determinados y convenidos por escrito por el Ministro y el Jefe de Misión, y serán llevados a cabo por el Director del S.C.I.S.P. de conformidad con las reglas prescriptas conjuntamente por el Ministro y el Jefe de Misión.

Clausula V

Las partes reconocen que la obligación de la República bajo el Convenio Básico para el programa de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay es de $ 250.000 dólares , y que la obligación del Instituto bajo el Convenio Básico para el mismo programa es de $ 575.000 dólares, y están de acuerdo que las contribuciones de las partes exigidas en el Convenio Básico y que no hubieren sido efectuadas en la fecha en que entra en vigencia esta Prorroga de Convenio serán pagadas de acuerdo con el Convenio Básico . Las partes además convienen que la porción no gastada de los fondos contribuídos o a ser contribuídos de conformidad con el Convenio Básico continuará disponible para tambien financiar el programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay durante el período establecido por esta Prorroga de Convenio . Queda además entendido y convenido que por esta Prorroga de Convenio no se contempla ninguna contribución por el Instituto al programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay fuera de aquellas requeridas de acuerdo con el Convenio Básico .

Cláusula VI

Los sueldos , asignaciones para subsistencias, viáticos y cualesquiera otras sumas pagas directamente a, o por cuenta de, miembros de la misión del Instituto , continuarán siendo pagadas por el Instituto con fondos del Instituto , distintos de los referidos en la Clausula V de esta Prorroga de Convenio , debiendo estos ultimos ser depositados a la cuenta del S.C.I.S.P. de acuerdo con el Convenio Básico .
Clausula VII

Todos los derechos y privilegios que beneficien a las reparticiones oficiales del gobierno y otros del Gobierno de la República Oriental del Uruguay y el personal y empleados de las mismas, continuarán siendo reconocidos al S.C.I.S.P. y a su personal y empleados para la duración de esta Prorroga de Convenio. Tales derechos y privilegios incluirán, por ejemplo y no exclusivamente, franquicia postal, servicios telefónicos y telegráficos , transporte gratuito en los ferrocarriles administrados por el Gobierno Uruguayo , y el derecho a tales reducciones o tarifas preferenciales como fueren concedidas a reparticiones del Gobierno Uruguayo por la marina nacional o las compañías de navegación en los ríos, transportes aéreos, tarifas telegráficas y telefónicas, etc. , y tambien franquicia y exención de los impuestos sobre consumos, timbres, honorarios consulares, bienes, y cualquier otro impuesto .

68706-52 -PT. III- -97

4125

4126

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 STAT.

Clausula VIII

La República Oriental del Uruguay reconoce y acepta al Instituto

como una corporación del Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América,

y por consiguiente, está de acuerdo en que el Instituto goce de los mismos derechos , privilegios e inmunidades como las condedidas a las

reparticiones gubernamentales oficiales del Gobierno de la República

Oriental del Uruguay con respecto a operaciones del Instituto que estén relacionadas con, o la propiedad que se utilice para, el programa

cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay. Asimismo, se establece

la continuación durante el término de esta Prorroga de Convenio de la

exención de todos los empleados del Instituto que fueren ciudadanos

de los Estados Unidos de América y estuvieren empeñados en el desarrollo de los objetivos del programa cooperativo de salud y

sanidad en el Uruguay, de todos los impuestos sobre rentas e impuestos

de previsión social que gravaren a la renta sobre la cual estén obliga-

dos a pagar impuesto sobre la renta o impuesto de previsión social al Gobierno de los Estados Unidos de América, y de los impuestos sobre

los bienes personales destinados a su propio uso . Los empleados del

Instituto y miembros de sus familias que se encuentren con ellos en

el Uruguay, también estarán exonerados del pago de derechos de

aduana o importación sobre sus efectos personales y provisiones para

su propio uso .

Clausula IX

Las normas generales aplicadas de conformidad al Convenio Básico, o a aplicar de conformidad a la Prorroga de Acuerdo , para la ejecución del programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay, incluyendo, pero no estando limitadas a, la estructuración de contratos, desembolso y contabilización de fondos depositados en la cuenta del S.C.I.S.P. empleo y pago de personal del S.C.I.S.P. , la compra , uso, inventario , contralor y disposición de propiedad , y cualquier otro asunto administrativo , serán durante el término de esta Prorroga de
Convenio, continuadas , determinadas o establecidas a mutuo acuerdo entre el Ministro y el Director del S.C.I.S.P.

Clausula X

Todos los materiales, equipos y provisiones comprados con fondos del S.C.I.S.P. se convertirán en propiedad de la República y cualquier bien adquirido por el S.C.I.S.P. que no hubiere sido gastado, usado o comprometido a la terminación del período fijado por esta Prorroga de Convenio permanecerá como propiedad de la República y será destinado al programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay en forma y condiciones a convenir por escrito por el Ministro y el Jefe de Misión. Cualquier fondo del S.C.I.S.P. que quedare al cierre del programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay será destinado
de un modo tal y para tales fines como fueren mutuamente acordados por el Ministro y el Jefe de Misión .

Nov. 10, 1947 62 STAT. ] URUGUAY-HEALTH AND SANITATION- Jan. 3, 1948

Clausula XI

Cualquier derecho , poder, o deber acordados por esta Prorroga de Convenio al Ministro , o al Jefe de Misión, o al Director del SCISP podrá ser delegado por escrito por el recibidor del mismo a sus representantes respectivos , siempre que tales representantes fueren aceptables para las demás partes .
Cláusula XII

Los libros y cuentas del SCISP estarán disponibles en cualquier momento para inspección o intervención por cualquier repartición competente del Gobierno de la República Oriental del Uruguay y por el Instituto . El Director del SCISP continuará proporcionando al Ministro y al Jefe de Misión cualquier información que se deseare referente al SCISP o sus actividades, y suministrará informes al Gobierno del Uruguay y al Instituto en tales plazos como hubieren sido convenidos entre el Ministro y el Jefe de Misión.
Cláusula XIII

El Gobierno del Uruguay promoverá la legislación, decretos , órdenes o resoluciones necesarias para llevar a cabo los términos de esta Prórroga de Convenio.
Cláusula XIV

Esta Prórroga de Convenio será complementaria a las disposiciones del Convenio Básico, los términos y estipulaciones del cual , en cuanto no fueren contrarios o incompatibles con los términos y disposiciones de esta Prórroga de Convenio continuarán en completa vigencia y efecto durante el término cubierto por esta Prórroga de Convenio .
Cláusula XV

Esta Prórroga de Convenio entrará en vigencia tan pronto como se haya efectuado un intercambio de notas diplomáticas entre el Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores de la República y el Embajador de los Estados Unidos de América, o en la fecha de la ejecución del presente convenio en el caso que las notas diplomáticas aprobando la extensión del programa cooperativo de salud y sanidad en el Uruguay, de acuerdo a las previsiones aquí incluídas , hubieren sido intercambiadas antes de la fecha de ejecución de esta Prórroga de Convenio.
EN FE DE LO CUAL, las partes han dispuesto la celebración de esta Prórroga de Convenio por sus representantes debidamente autorizados, por duplicado en los idiomas Inglés y Español , en Montevideo, Uruguay, a los tres días de Enero de 1948.

POR LA REPUBLICA ORIENTAL POR EL INSTITUTO DE ASUNTOS

DEL URUGUAY

INTERAMERICANOS

ENRIQUE M. CLAVEAUX Enrique M. Claveaux Ministro de Salud Pública

H. JACKSON DAVIS J. Jackson Davis Jefe de Misión

4127

4128

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [ 62 Stat.

June 25 a19n4d8 July 20, [T. I. A. S. 2159]

Agreement between the United States of America and Uruguay respecting a cooperative health and sanitation program in Uruguay, modifying and extending the agreement of October 1 and November 1 , 1943, as modified and extended . Effected by exchange of notes signed at Montevideo June 25 and July 20, 1948 ; entered into force October 7, 1948; operative retroactively July 1 , 1948.

The American Ambassador to the Uruguayan Minister of Foreign Affairs

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 88

Montevideo, June 25, 1948

EXCELLENCY :

I have the honor to refer to the Basic Agreement, as amended,

between the Oriental Republic of Uruguay and The Institute of

Inter-American Affairs, arising out of the exchange of notes between

His Excellency Juan Carlos Blanco, Ambassador of Uruguay to the United States of America and His Excellency A. A. Berle, Jr., Acting

58 Stat. 1434, Ante, pp. 4108, 4117;

Secretary of State of the United States of America, dated October 1, 1943 and November 1 , 1943, as later modified and extended, which provided for the initiation and execution of the existing co-

operative health and sanitation program in Uruguay. I also refer to Your Excellency's note of May 26, 1948, [1] suggesting the con-

sideration by our respective Governments of a further extension of that Agreement.

As Your Excellency knows, the above referred to Basic Agreement

provides that the cooperative health and sanitation program will

terminate on June 30, 1948. However, considering the mutual benefits which both governments are deriving from the program, my

Government agrees with the Government of Uruguay that an extension of such program would be desirable. I have been advised by the Department of State in Washington that arrangements may now be made for the Institute to continue its participation in the coopera-

tive program for a period of one year, from June 30, 1948, through June 30, 1949. It would be understood that, during such period of extension, the Institute would make a contribution of $50,000 U. S. Cy. to the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Salud Publica for use

in carrying out project activities of the program on condition that your Government would contribute to the Servicio for the same purpose the sum of not less than $250,000 U. S. cy. The Institute would also be willing during the same extension period to make available funds to be retained by the Institute, and not deposited to the ac-

'1 Not printed.

June 25, 1948 62 STAT . ] URUGUAY- HEALTH AND SANITATION--
July 20, 1948

count of the Servicio, for payment of salaries and other expenses of the members of the Institute Health and Sanitation Division Field
Staff, who are maintained by the Institute in Uruguay. The amounts referred to would be in addition to the sums already required under the present Basic Agreement to be contributed and made available by the parties in furtherance of the program .
If Your Excellency agrees that the proposed extension on the above basis is acceptable to your Government, I would appreciate receiving an expression of Your Excellency's opinion and agreement thereto as soon as may be possible in order that the technical details of the extension may be worked out by officials of the Ministry of Public Health and The Institute of Inter- American Affairs.
The Government of the United States of America will consider the

present note and your reply note concurring therein as constituting an agreement between our two Governments, which shall come into force on the date of signature of an agreement by the Minister of Public Health of Uruguay and by a representative of the Institute of Inter-American Affairs [ 1 ] embodying the above mentioned technical details.

I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my highest and most distinguished consideration.

To His Excellency Sr. Dr. Don DANIEL CASTELLANOS,
Minister ofForeign Affairs, Montevideo .

ELLIS O. BRIGGS

The Uruguayan Minister of Foreign Affairs to the American Ambassador

MINISTERIO DE
RELACIONES EXTERIORES

D.I.I.C.C. 910/943-713.-

MONTEVIDEO, 20 de julio de 1948.-

SEÑOR EMBAJADOR :

Con referencia a la nota de Vuestra Excelencia, N° 88, de fecha 25 de

junio ppdo., relativa a la ampliación del Convenio sobre Programa Cooperativo de Salud y Sanidad en el Uruguay, tengo el honor de expresar a Vuestra Excelencia que el Ministerio de Salud Pública

ha hecho saber a esta Secretaría de Estado, de acuerdo con la resolución

del Consejo de Ministros de 21 de abril ppdo. su opinión favorable a dicha prórroga hasta el 30 de junio de 1949 y, a tal efecto , se adoptarán las medidas correspondientes.

1¹ Oct. 7, 1948.

4129

4130

INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS OTHER THAN TREATIES [62 STAT.
Reitero a Vuestra Excelencia las seguridades de mi alta consideración .
Por el Ministro J CARRERE S
Justino Carrere Sapriza Subsecretario
Al Excelentísimo Señor ELLIS O. BRIGGS, Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario de los Estados Unidos de America.-

Ante, p . 4128.

Translation

MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS

D.I.I.C.C. 910 /943-713.-
MR. AMBASSADOR :

MONTEVIDEO, July 20, 1948.-

Referring to Your Excellency's Note No. 88, dated June 25, last,

relating to the extension of the Agreement on the Cooperative Health

and Sanitation Program in Uruguay, I have the honor to notify Your Excellency that the Ministry of Public Health has informed this

Department of State, in accordance with the resolution of the Council

of Ministers of April 21 , last, of its approval of the said extension to

June 30, 1949 , and the appropriate measures will be adopted to that effect.

I renew to Your Excellency the assurances of my high consideration.

For the Minister

J CARRERE S Justino Carrere Sapriza

Under Secretary His Excellency
ELLIS O. BRIGGS, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the United States of America.-

INDEX

A

Page Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, to Fairbanks,

Alaska, land line communication sys-

Advisers, Military, U. S., agreement with

tem ....

Argentina respecting ... Afghanistan :

2808 Algeria, Universal Postal Union____. Allied Commission for Austria, machinery

International Labor Organization , con-

of control.__

stitution, instrument of amend-

American Commission for Cultural Ex-

ment, 1946_.

3485

change With Italy....

Postal Union , Universal ..

3157 Arabia. See Saudi Arabia.

Agricultural Station Commission, U. S.

Argentina :

and Ecuador .............

3609 Military advisory mission ...

Agricultural Workers, Mexican, migra-

tion to U. S.__

3887

Postal Union, Universal .. World Health Organization , constitu-

Agriculture :

tion_____

Cooperative program of, Costa Rica. 3916 Assistance, Economic. See China Aid Act

U. S. Department of, experiment sta-

of 1948 ; Economic Cooperation ; For-

tionsEcuador ....

3605

eign Aid ; Foreign Assistance ; Mutual Aid Settlement Agreements .

Tingo María, Peru ....

3474 Assistance, Military. See Military As-

Aid, Economic. See China Aid Act of 1948 ; Economic Cooperation ; Foreign

sistance ; Military Relief Program . Australia :

Aid; Foreign Assistance ; Mutual Aid

Claims, Marechal Joffre ......

Settlement Agreements.

General Agreement on Tariffs and

Aid, Military. See Military Assistance ;

Military Relief Program.

Air Service Facilities :

France , Tan-Son-Nhut airport in Indo-

china..

4102

Italy ...

4074

Air Transport Services : Chile . Italy ..... Philippines .. Spain_ - _-

3755 3729 3023 4078, 4081

Airline Operations, Commercial :

Pan American Grace Airways , air transport service agreement with Chile

respecting ...

3769

Routing of air transport service, agree-

ment with Spain..........

4078, 4081

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947---- Final Act, accession of signatories,
protocol . Protocol modifying part II and article
XXVI .... Rectifications, second protocol of... International Labor Organization, con-
stitution, instrument of amendment, 1946 . International Refugee Organization, constitution .... Postal Union, Universal___. Reparations from Germany, apportionment of shares between India and Pakistan .. World Health Organization, constitution .... Austria :

Alaska, Fairbanks, land line communica-

Allied Commission for, machinery of

tion system with Edmonton, Alberta,

Canada ...

3883

control... International Labor Organization, con-

Pago 3883 3157 4036 3465
2808 3157 2679
2841
3663 3679 3671 3485 3037 3157 2613 2679 4036

Albania :
Postal Union, Universal.... Reparations from Germany, apportion-
ment of shares between India and Pakistan ...
World Health Organization, constitution .----

3157 2613 2679

stitution, instrument of amendment, 1946Postal Union, Universal.. Trade, application of most-favorednation treatment to occupied areas . World Health Organization, constitution ...

3485 3157
2876
2679

CCIII

CCIV

INDEX

Aviation. See also Air Service Facilities ; Page Bolivia- Continued

Page

Air Transport Services ; Airline Oper-

International Labor Organization, con-

ations. Aviation Mission, Civil, Venezuela......

2666

stitution, instrument of amend-

ment, 1946. ..........

3485

Postal Union, Universal..

3157

B

World Health Organization, constitu-

tion ...

2679

Bank for International Settlements, gold

Boyd-Roosevelt Highway, Canal Zone,

transferred by Germany, delivery to

U. S. , U. K. , and France__

2672

agreement with Panama respecting

Colón Corridor ...

3935

Barajas Airport, use of, for transport

Boykin Act, application to citizens of

service through Madrid, agreement with Spain . Belgian Congo : Educational Foundation, U. S. , partici-
pation in_____ Mutual aid settlement, agreement with

Philippines . --

3461

4078 Brazil :

3451

Cooperative programs--

Health and sanitation ....

3831

Mineral resources survey ..

3636

International Labor Organization, con-

BelgiumClaims against U. S____

3985

stitution, instrument of amend-

ment, 1946 ....

3485

U. S. expenditures, payment of....

3987

U. S. property in ... Postal Union, Universal ..

3985, 3997 3157

Postal Union, Universal..

3157

Trade-

General Agreement on Tariffs and

Belgian Francs, purchase of, for use by

U. S. armed forces ..

3998

Trade, Oct. 30 , 1947-- Final Act, accession of signatories,

Belgium :

protocol ...

3663

Economic cooperation, agreement of July 2, 1948, amendment..
Educational Foundation, U. S. , estab-
lishment ... General Agreement on Tariffs and

3776 3451

Protocol modifying part II and arti-

cle XXVI.....

3679

Rectifications, second protocol of.. 3671

Supplementation respecting Brazil. 2799

Most-favored-nation treatment to oc-

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947-

cupied areas of Western Ger-

Final Act, accession of signatories, protocol..
Protocol modifying part II and article XXVI ...
Rectifications, second protocol of... International Labor Organization, con-
stitution, instrument of amend-
ment, 1946 International Refugee Organization,
constitution ... Mutual aid settlement .
Passport visas_ _ _ Postal Union , Universal ..

3663

many, application of

3653

Reciprocal agreement rendering in-

3679 3671

operative agreements of Feb. 2,

1935, Apr. 17, 1935 .

2799

World Health Organization, constitu-

tion _...

2679

Bretton Woods Resolution, implementa-

3485

tion of, restitution of monetary gold,

agreement with Spain__

4071

3037 Broadcasting Stations, engineering stand-

3984

ards applicable to allocation of, Can-

3707

ada...

2652

3157 Bulgaria:

Reparations from Germany, apportionment of shares between India and
Pakistan --Trade, application of most-favored-

Postal Union, Universal..

3157

World Health Organization, constitu-

2613

tion-----

2679

Burma:

nation treatment to occupied areas 2880, 3653

World Health Organization, constitution _...
Bizonal Area of Germany, Agreements

2679

Respecting : Ferrous scrap for export. Fusion, economic , American and British

3598

General Agreement on Tariffs and

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947-

Final Act, accession of signatories ,

protocol ....

3663

Rectifications, second protocol of.... 3671

Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council, establish-

ment ....

3711

International Labor Organization, con-

Zones of Occupation --Bolivia:

3645

stitution, instrument of amend-

ment, 1946 .

3485

Health and sanitation program, coop-

Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic:

erative..

3920 Postal Union, Universal..

3157

INDEX

CCV

Byelorussian Soviet Socialist RepublicContinued
World Health Organization , constitution _...

Page Ceylon:

General Agreement on Tariffs and

2679

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947Final Act, accession of signatories,

Page

C
CAB. See Civil Aeronautics Board . Canada :

protocol___ Protocol modifying part II and article
XXVI ....
Rectifications , second protocol of... International Labor Organization, con-

3663
3679 3671

Broadcasting stations, engineeringstandards .....
Communication system, land line, be-

2652

stitution, instrument of amendment, 1946 Trade, application of most-favored-na-

3485

tween Edmonton, Canada, and

tion treatment to occupied areas of

Fairbanks, Alaska___ Defense installations and equipment,
transfer of General Agreement on Tariffs and

3883

Western Germany__

Charter, Naval, for lease of vessels, agree-

3912

ment with Philippines..

Chile :

3653 3870

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947Final Act, accession of signatories ,
protocol.. Protocol modifying part II and article
XXVI ..... Rectifications , second protocol of ____ International Labor Organization, con-
stitution, instrument of amendment, 1946. ......... International Refugee Organization , constitution___
Military aircraft, flights of.... Postal Union, Universal ... Potatoes, control of exports .. Reparations from Germany, apportion-
ment of shares between India and Pakistan ....

3663
3679 3671

Air transport services . General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, Oct. 30, 1947, rectifications, second protocol of__ Postal Union, Universal_ World Health Organization, constitution .

China : 3485 Economic cooperation..

3037 3943 3157 3717

General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Oct. 30, 1947-
Final Act, accession of signatories, protocol .
Protocol modifying part II and article XXVI.

2613

Rectifications , second protocol of Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council, estab-

3755
3671 3157 2679 2945
3663 3679 3671

Trade, application of most-favored-nation treatment to occupied areas of Western Germany....

3653

lishment ... International Labor Organization, con-
stitution, instrument of amend-

3711

World Health Organization , constitu-

tion _...

2679

ment, 1946___

3485

International Refugee Organization,

Canal Zone. See Panama Canal Zone.

constitution___.

3037

CARE . See Cooperative for American Remittances to Europe.
Caribbean Commission, establishment ,

Postal Union, Universal_
Rural Reconstruction, Joint Commission on---.

3157 3139

multilateral .... Central Secretariat

2618 2621

Trade, application of most-favorednation treatment to occupied areas . 2982

Finances _.--

2622 World Health Organization, constitu-

Non-member governments, relationship

tion__

2679

with..

2623 China Aid Act of 1948 , Agreements Under :

Powers, functions , etc ... Research Council-
Composition, functions ... Establishment ....

2619 Economic cooperation, China___.

Rural Reconstruction, Joint Commis-

2620

sion on, agreement with China...

2618 Civil Aeronautics Board :

2945 3139

United Nations, relationship with .... West Indian Conference-
Composition, functions, meetings . Establishment ... Caribbean Research Council. See under Caribbean Commission.

2623

Authorization, air transport service to Spain ---

2621 2618

Rate agreements , approvalChile

Italy ..

Civil Aviation Mission, Venezuela....

4078
3760 3744 2666

INDEX

CCVI
Civil Aviation Organization , International. See International Civil Aviation Or-

Page Cuba- Continued

Pago

Weather stations , cooperative program . 3134

World Health Organization, constitu-

2679

CivilgiaannizSautpipolni.es Furnished Under Mili-

CulturatlioEnx_c_hange With Italy, American

tary Relief Program.
Relief Program . Claims, Settlement of:
Agreements withBelgium...

See Military

3465

Commission for .......

Curaçao, Universal Postal Union _...

3157

Czechoslovakia : General Agreement on Tariffs and

3984 2952

ProTtroacdoel, mOocdti.f3y0in, g19pa4r7t--II and article

China --Czechoslovakia ..
France ...
Italy.. Korea____ Luxembourg-.

2850 3826 3853 3422 4003, 4006 2819

3679

RectiXfiXcVatIio.n.s., second protocol of.... 3671

2850

Mutual aid, settlement---.

3157

Postal Union, Universal...

Reparations from Germany, apportion-

ment of shares between India and

Philippines .
Portugal. United Kingdom ...

2861 3577 2658

2613

Pakistan .. World Health

Organization,

constitu-

2679

Yugoslavia .. Marechal Joffre, multilateral agreement

tion__

Coal ErxepsopretcstinFgr-o-.m Western Zones of Germany, agreement with France___
Colombia: Health and sanitation program, coop-
erative .__ International Labor Organization ,
constitution, instrument of amend-
ment, 1946___ Postal Union, Universal . World Health Organization, constitu-
tion__. Colón Corridor , location of, agreement

2841

D

4064 Defense Installations and Equipment, Transfer, agreement with Canada re-

specting-3880 DeEncmoanrokm:ic cooperation, agreement of

3485 3157

June 29, 1948, amendment---International Labor Organization, con-
stitution, instrument of amend-

2679

Intermneantito,n1a9l46 .R.e.fugee constitution ..

Organization ,

3912
3753
3485 3037 4068

3933 Passport visa fees..

3157

with Panama_. Colony of the Belgian Congo . See Belgian

Postal ReparatUinoinosn, Universal .. from Germany, apportion-

ment of shares between India and

4

CommCuonnigcoat. ion System, war-built land

2613

line, between Edmonton , Alberta, and Fairbanks , Alaska , agreement with
CoopeCraantaidvae_f_o_r American Remittances to

3883

TradPea,kaipsptlainc.a.tion of most-favored-na2883
tion treatment to occupied areas... World Health Organization, constitution. 2679

Europe, relief parcels supplied to CopyrItiaglhyt.,..Reciprocal Relations , Philip-

DoImnitneircnaatnioRneaplubLlaibco:r Organization, con-

3809

stitution, instrument of amend-

3485

pines__
Costa Rica: Food production program , cooperative . World Health Organization , constitu-

tion ... Court of Justice , International.
national Court of Justice .

See Inter-

2996
3916 2679

ment, 1946 R.efugee Organization,

International

3037

constitution__ .

3157

Postal World

Union Health

, U Orgnainviezrastailo.n,

constitution.

2679

Dual Nationality, Military Obligations of

Persons Having, agreement with 3621

Cuba:

Tariffs and

General Agreement on

France__ E

Trade , Oct. 30, 1947--

3663 ECA. See Economic Cooperation Ad-

Final Act, accession of signatories ,

protocol... Protocol modifying part II and article
XXVI ... Rectifications , second protocol of ... ---
Postal Union, Universal ...

3679 ECOm. iniSseteraEtuiroonp. ean Coal Organization. 3671 Economic Cooperation, agreement under 2945

3157

China Aid Act, 1948--

INDEX

CCVII

Economic Cooperation Act, 1948 : Agreements underKorea... Portugal. Trieste, Free Territory of, British/ U. S. Zone____ . Amended agreements-

Page Eire. See Ireland .

El Salvador :

3780 2856

International Labor Organization, constitution, instrument of amend-

ment, 1946.............

3026 Postal Union, Universal..

World Health Organization , constitution.

Page
3485 3157 2679

Belgium, July 2 , 1948 .. Denmark, June 29, 1948.. France, June 28, 1948 ..

3776 Employment Service, U. S. Department of

3753

Labor, migration of Mexican agricul-

3720

tural workers to U. S .___.

3887

Italy, June 28, 1948 ... Luxembourg, July 3, 1948 ---

3815 ENDSI , receipt of relief supplies and pack-

3750

ages for Italy .

3809

Economic Cooperation Administration, Qualified Agencies Under, Shipment of Relief Supplies and Packages to :
France ...

England. See United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland .
Ethiopia : 3587 International Labor Organization, con-

Germany, United States/United Kingdom occupied areas ..
Italy.... United Kingdom ..

3860 3809 3798

stitution , instrument of amendment, 1946____ Postal Union, Universal___. World Health Organization , constitution.

3485 3157 2679

Economic Cooperation Agreement, France, June 28, 1948, Effectuation. See Relief supplies , etc. , under France.
Ecuador :

European Coal Organization, countries represented in, coal exports from Western Zones of Germany, agreement with France ...

4064

Agricultural experiment station , establishment . -
Health and sanitation program , cooperative .....
International Labor Organization , constitution, instrument of amend-

European Economic Cooperation, Organi-

3605

zation of, distribution of ferrous scrap

3927

exports, agreement with United Kingdom ...

Experiment Stations, Agricultural. See under Agriculture.

3598

ment, 1946 ... Military mission___ Postal Union, Universal..-.

3485 3018 3157

World Health Organization , constitution. 2679

Edmonton, Canada, to Fairbanks, Alaska, land line communication system ..-- 3883

Education, Cooperative Program of: Guatemala . Panama ..
Paraguay Peru...

4008, 4032 4084
2824, 3447 3866

Educational Commission, U. S., Establishment :

France _- _United Kingdom ....

3625 3577

Export and Import Permits Act, potatoes, control of exports from Canada ...
F
Fairbanks , Alaska, land line communication system with Edmonton , Canada_
Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia. See Yugoslavia.
Federal Works Agency, U. S., allotment of funds for improvement of InterAmerican Highway, Guatemala ...............
Ferrous Scrap for Export, allocation of, agreement with United Kingdom ...
Films, Motion Picture, American, distribution and exhibition in French

3717 3883
3923 3598

Educational Exchange Program, financing

Union____

3001

of, agreement with Italy .... Educational Foundation, U. S. , Establish-
ment :

3465 Financial and Property Settlement, Korea Finland : International Labor Organization, con-

3422

Belgium ... LuxembourgNew Zealand .
Philippines, agreement of Mar. 23 , 1948, amendment ...
Egypt : Postal Union, Universal___ Reparations from Germany, apportionment of shares between India and Pakistan ....

3451 3451 2802

stitution, instrument of amendment, 1946 ... Postal Union, Universal .......

3805

World Health Organization, constitution _...

Fisheries Council, Indo- Pacific, establish-

3157

ment, multilateral____.

Fisheries Mission, Mexico_..

Food and Agriculture Organization, es-

2613

tablishment of Indo-Pacific Fisheries

3485 3157
2679
3711 3575

World Health Organization , constitution. 2679

Council

3711

INDEX

CCVIII

Page Free Territory of Trieste. See Trieste, Page

Food Production Program, Cooperative : 3916

Free Territory of.

Costa Rica..

French Republic . See France.

3950, 4029

Haiti ...

3584 French Union , Territories of:

FoPreeirgun...Aid Act, 1947 , assistance to 3650

American motion picture films , distribu-

tion and exhibition in ..

3001

people of Italy .. Foreign Assistance Act , 1948, agreement

Educational Commission , U. S., partici3626

with China under__

2948, 2950

Foreign Economic Administration , claims

pation in program_ U. S. armed forces in, expenditures of 3826

by Belgian Government, settlement

French Zone of Occupation, Germany,

3988

reciprocal application of most-favor-

of..

ed-nation treatment..

2891

FraAnicre :service facilities, Tan- Son- Nhut

Fulbright Act. See Surplus Property Act

airport in Indochina .. Inventory of radio equipment_--

4102

4104

of Fusion

1A9g44re. ement

(U. S./U. K. Zones in

Allied Commission for Austria, ma-

Germany) , as Amended Dec. 17 ,

chinery of control__ Caribbean Commission , establishment ..
Claims, Marechal Joffre -Coal, exports from Western Zones of

4036 2618 2841

1947 :

3645

ERxetseenrsviaotnio..n., ferrous scrap for export ... 3600

Germany .

4064 G

Dual nationality , military obligations

of persons having ....

3621 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,

Economic cooperation , agreement of
June 28, 1948 , amendment .. Educational Commission, U. S. , es-
tablishment ... --General Agreement on Tariffs and

3720 3625

FinOaclt.A3c0t,, 1a9c4ce7s:sion of signatories, pro3663
Mostt-ofcaovlo..r.e.d-nation treatment to oc-
cupied areas, agreements with-- 2876

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947-- Final Act , accession of signatories ,
protocol... Protocol modifying part II and
article XXVI ....... Rectifications , second protocol of___

3663
3679 3671

Gold transferred by Germany to Bank

for International Settlements,
delivery. Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council, estab-
lishment --International Labor Organization, con-
stitution , instrument of amend-
ment, 1946 International Refugee Organization,
constitution . Motion picture films, American, distri-
bution and exhibition in French

2672 3711
3485 3037

Union____ Mutual aid settlement .
Postal Union, Universal__ Relief supplies and packages , duty-free

3001 3826 3157

entry, payment of transportation
charges on. Reparations from Germany, apportion-
ment of shares between India and

3587

Pakistan ..-

2613

Trade, application of most-favored-na-

tion treatment to occupied areas . 2887, 3653

Austria .

2880

Belgium .

2982

China ...

2883

Denmark .

2887

France ..

Germany-

2891

French Zone of Occupation -----

U.S./U. K. Zone of Occupation ... 2895 2899

Greece..

2903

Iceland

2910

Ireland.

2913

Italy..

3790

Korea ..

2917

LMuulxteimlbatoeurragl,-respecting Western Ger3653

many-

2921

Netherlands ..

2924

Norway-

2845

Portugal.

2930

Sweden .

2934

2941 Turkey-

MoUtniiotnedpiKcitunrgedfoimlm.s.., American, distri-

bution and exhibition in French 3001

ProtoUcnoilonmo..d.ifying part II and article 3679

3689 XXVI ..

Annex I...

3689

ADruttiicelse, XaXnVtiI-d..umping and counter- 3682

World Health Organization, constitu-

tion__

2679

vailing--

INDEX

CCIX

General Agreement on Tariffs and TradeContinued
Protocol modifying part II and article XXVI- Continued
Economic development and reconstruction, governmental assistance to ...
Internal taxation and regulation , national treatment on----
Rectifications , second protocol of.. Supplementation, agreement with Bra-
zil..
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior, cooperation with Brazil in mineral resources survey program _--
Germany : ReparationsApportionment of shares between India and Pakistan , multilateral__ Gold transferred to Bank for International Settlements, delivery to U. S. , U. K. , and France, multilateral.. Western Zones, agreements respectingCoal exports from, agreement with France ...
Economic fusion , U. S./U. K. Zones of Occupation .
Ferrous scrap exports, allocation of, decisions by United States and United Kingdom Military Governors __- .
Relief supplies and packages, agreement with U. S./U. K. Zones of Occupation ...
Trade, most-favored-nation treatment, agreements with-
Austria ...
Belgium . China .. Denmark.. France... French Zone of Occupation , recipro-
cal application.. Greece ... Iceland . Ireland . Italy . Korea ... LuxembourgMultilateral . Netherlands . NorwayPortugal.. Sweden.. Turkey . United Kingdom... United States /United Kingdom
Zones of Occupation , reciprocal application...

Page
3684 3680 3671 2799
3636
2613
2672
4064 3645
3598
3860
2876 2880 2982 2883 2887 2891 2899 2903 2910 2913 3792 2917 3653 2921 2924 2845 2930 2934 2941
2895

Gold, Monetary, Restitution :

Page

Bank for International Settlements,

gold transferred by Germany, delivery to U. S. , U. K. , and France__ India and Pakistan, apportionment of shares between, multilateral_ _ _ _ _ Spain, implementation of Gold Declaration of 1944 ...

2672 2613 4071

Great Britain . See United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Greece : International Labor Organization , constitution, instrument of amendment, 1946 .. Postal Union, Universal..

3485 3157

Reparations from Germany, apportionment of shares between India and Pakistan ...

2613

Trade, application of most-favored- nation treatment to occupied areas .. 2899

World Health Organization, constitution_..
Guatemala :

2679

Educational program , cooperative . 4008 , 4032

Inter-American Highway, improvement

3923

International Labor Organization , con-

stitution, instrument of amend-

ment, 1946 .......

3485

International Refugee Organization , con-

stitution_____

3037

Postal Union, Universal ..

3157

World Health Organization , constitu-

tion _...

2679

H

Haiti :

Food production program, cooperative. 3950, 4029

Agreement, memorandum of, Aug. 28,

1944 .

3953

Amendment, Oct. 16, 1945 . Extension agreement, June 25, 1945.Second extension agreement , Dec. 27,
1946__

3964 3961
3965

Supplemental agreement, Jan. 8, 1948 ....
Health and sanitation program, cooperative ...
Postal Union, Universal_World Health Organization , constitu-
tion _...

3973
2649 3157
2679

Headquarters of United Nations, loan for construction and furnishing of..
Health and Sanitation : Cooperative programs Bolivia .. Brazil.. Colombia.. Ecuador..

3725
3920 3831 3880 3927

INDEX

CCX
Health and Sanitation- Continued Cooperative programs -Continued

Page India- Continued

Page

World Health Organization , constitution. 2679

2649 Indo -Pacific Fisheries Council, establish-

Haiti ...

ment, multilateral__

3711

3904

Honduras ..

3978 Indochina :

Mexico ..

Postal Union , Universal___

3157

Uruguay.

4108, 4117, 4128 Tan-Son-Nhut airport, facilities at,

World Health Organization , constitution. 2679

agreement with France....

4102

Honduras : Health and sanitation program , coopera-
tive _-__ Postal Union, Universal_ - _World Health Organization , constitution .

Hungary : National

Bank

of,

gold

transferred

to

ac-

count of, inclusion in delivery by Bank for International Settlements

to U. S. , U. K. , and France ... ___

Postal Union, Universal__

Institute of Inter-American Affairs :

3904 3157 2679
2673 3157

Educational program, cooperative-- Guatemala (see also Inter-American

Educational Foundation, Inc.) .. 4032

4084

Panama....

2824, 3447

Paraguay.

3866

Peru ...

Food production program, cooperative--

3916

Costa Rica_

3950, 4029

Haiti..

3584

Peru.. Health and sanitation program, coopera-

I

tion with-

3920

ICAO . See International Civil Aviation
Organization . Iceland :
International Labor Organization, constitution , instrument of amend-
ment, 1946-International Refugee Organization,
constitution ............
Passport visas ... Postal Union, Universal____. Trade, application of most-favored-na-
tion treatment to occupied areas... ILO. See International Labor Organiza-
tion . Immigration and Naturalization Service,
U. S., migration of Mexican agricultural workers to U. S ....

Bolivia ....

3831

Brazil.

3880

Colombia ...

3927

Ecuador.

2649

Haiti ....

3904

3485

Honduras ..

3978

Mexico ...

4108, 4117, 4128

3037 InterU-rAlulgiuedayC.o..mmand in Vienna, civil ad-

3941

4041

3157 ministration . Inter-Allied Reparation Agency, appor-

tionment of shares between India and

2903

Pakistan under Paris Agreement of 2613

3887

InterJ-aAnm.er14i,ca1n946Af.f.airs, Institute of. See Institute of Inter-American Affairs.
Inter-American Educational Foundation, Inc. (See also Institute of Inter-

Import Restrictions , Quantitative, and Deferment of Payments , extension of agreement of June 24, 1947 , Sweden .
India : General Agreement on Tariffs and

2647

American Affairs) , cooperative edu- 4008 cational program, Guatemala ------
Inter-American Highway, improvement of, 3923 agreement with Guatemala ..
Interior, Department of the, Bureau of

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947-- Final Act, accession of signatories,
protocol... Protocol modifying part II and article

Mines and Geological Survey, coop-
eration with Brazil in mineral re3636
3663 3679 IntersnoautricoensalsuCrivvielyApvrioatgiroanmO-r-g-anization :

XXVI ... Rectifications, second protocol of____ 3671

Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council, estab-

lishment...-- .

3711

International Labor Organization, constitution , instrument of amend-

ment, 1946 ..... Postal Union, Universal..

3485 3157

Reparations from Germany, apportionment of shares with Pakistan___. 2613

Trade, application of most-favored-na-

tion treatment to occupied areas of

Western Germany .......

3653

Agreements, registration-

3757

Chile ...

3734

AirItsaelryv.ice facilities in Italy, operation of. 4074 Council, settlement of disputes, ad-

visory report-

3758

Chile..

3736

RaItteasl,y.failure of agreement on, reference

for advisory report-

3760

3746 Chile ...

Italy.

INDEX

CCXI

International Court of Justice, Referral of Page |International Labor Organization- Con. Page

Disputes :

Organization- Continued

Labor Organization, International ... 3540,

Privileges and immunities of ILO... 3552

3542 , 3544, 3550, 3552 Ratifications-

Refugee Organization, International . 3047 World Health Organization .------ 2693, 2694 International Labor Organization, con-
stitution, instrument of amendment,

List of ... Notifications___ United Nations, registry with__ Voting privileges , suspension ..

3573 3486 3486 3512

1946-

3485 International Refugee Organization , con-

Acceptance by U. S. , receipt by ILO ... 3572 Annex-Constitution and instrument of

stitution of.... Acceptance by U. S..

3037 3132

amendment -----

3490 Administration____

3043

Organization_____ Cooperation with other organizations_____

3492 3510

Amendment, provision concerning ---- . Displaced persons , definition of... Disputes, questions.

3047 3050 3047

Declaration concerning aims and

purposes of ILO .............

3554

Entry into force .... Executive Committee_

3047 3042

Financial and budgetary arrange-

ments ...

3510

Finance__ Functions and powers--.

3044, 3052 3038

International Labor Office .--- 3496, 3506 General Council___

3041

Deposit of instrument of amend-

ment__

3486

General principles, definitions__ Headquarters , other offices...

3048 3045

Functions ..

3506 Mandate..

3038

Seat .

3500 Membership .

3040

Juridical personality of ILO .-- . 3552

Procedure ..

3514-3544

Persons excluded from care of organiza-

tion___.

3051

Agenda

3514 Procedure

3046

Amendment of constitution ..

3550 Refugees, definition of ...

3049

Complaints.. Conferences-

3536

Relations with other organizations,

countries .

3046, 3047

General .. Regional

3496, 3514 3552

Resolution adopted by General Assem-

bly, Feb. 12, 1946- ..

3054

Conventions, application to terri-

tories .

3544

Signatures. Staff...

3123-3131 3044

Dispute or question ... ----

3550

International Court of Justice ,

Status, immunities, privileges___ United Nations-

3046

referral to _ - _.

3540,

Registry with_

3047

3542, 3544, 3550, 3552

Relationship to --- .

3040

Proposals, adoption of.. Convention____. Recommendation__
Reports, annual_. Commission of Enquiry-

3518 International Settlements, Bank for, gold

3518, 3520-3532

transferred by Germany, delivery to

3518, 3524

U. S. , U. K., and France _ - _

3532 Iran:

3536-3544 International Labor Organization , con-

2672

Director-General . --

3504,

stitution, instrument of amend-

---

3512, 3514, 3534 , 3540, 3546

ment, 1946__

3485

Entry into force ... General Conference..

3486, 3488n 3496

Military mission with Imperial Iranian

Gendarmerie_...

3843

Agenda ...

3514 Postal Union, Universal..

3157

Composition .. Meetings.Procedure

3496 World Health Organization, constitu-

3496, 3500

tion___

3516 Iraq :

2679

Voting ...

3500, 3518 International Labor Organization, con-

Governing Body ..

3496

stitution, instrument of amend-

Composition ....

3500

Functions__ 3514, 3534, 3542, 3550, 3552

ment, 1946___ . Postal Union, Universal....

3485 3157

Organization ... Composition .

3492 World Health Organization, constitution. 2679 3494-3496 Ireland :

Meetings..

3496 International Labor Organization, con-

Membership ....... Withdrawal...

3492 3494

stitution, instrument of amend-

ment, 1946...

3485

INDEX

CCXII

Page Joint Foreign Exchange Agency (United Page

Ireland-Continued
Postal Union, Universal... Trade, application of most-favored-

3157

States-United Kingdom) , functions,
etc. , under agreement respecting fusion of American and British Zones

nation treatment to occupied areas. 2910

of Occupation in Germany..

3646

World Health Organization, constitu- 2679 Jordan. See Transjordan.

tion ...

Jugoslavia. See Yugoslavia.

Italy: Air service facilities .. Air transport services .. Assistance to people of Italy .. Claims of Italian prisoners-of-war- Cultural Exchange, American Commis-
sion for .. Economic cooperation, agreement of
June 28 , 1948 , amendment ... International Labor Organization , con-
stitution, instrument of amend-
ment, 1946 . Passport visas Postal Union , Universal..

4074

K

3729

Korea :

3780

3650 Economic cooperation .......

3853 Financial and property settlement .. 3422

German-owned property-

3427

3465

Japanese property-

3429

3433

Occupation, U. S. troops-

3815

Power furnished by Soviet authorities, liquidation of debt for... 3432

Trade, application of most-favored-na-

3485 3480

3790 tion treatment .. U. S. Occupied Areas in, most-favored-

3157

nation treatment to, agreements

Relief supplies and packages, duty-free entry, payment of transportation
charges . Trade, application of most-favored-
nation treatment to occupied areas .

3809 2913

with-

2876

AGuesrtmriaany, French Zone of Occupa2891

tion____

2899

Greece

2903

World Health Organization , constitu-

Iceland .

2910

tion_ .

2679

Ireland

2913

Italy ..

2924

J

Norway-

2934

Jan Mayen, waiver of passport visas for American citizens traveling to Nor-
wayJapan, U. S. Occupied Areas, Most-

3649

WiTtuhrdrkaewya..l of U. S. forces, interim 3817
military and security measures.___
L

Favored-Nation Treatment to, Agree-
ments With: Austria ... Germany, French Zone of Occupation .

Labor, Department of, U. S. Employment

Service, migration of Mexican agri-

2876

3887

cultural workers to U. S___

2889919 Labor Organization, International. See

Greece .. Iceland . Ireland Italy.. Korea.. NorwayTurkey
JEIA. See Joint

Export-Import

Agency

International Labor Organization.

22991003 Land Line Communication System Be-

2913

tween Edmonton, Canada, and Fair3883

3792

banks, Alaska....

2924 LeGbeanneorna:l Agreement on Tariffs and 2934
FinTarladAec, tO,cta.cc3e0s,s1io9n47o-f signatories, 3663

(United States-United Kingdom) .

"Joffre, Marechal", Claims, multilateral

agreement respecting - -

2841

Protopcrooltocomlod.ifying part II and 3679 RectiafritciactlieoXnsXVI , sec.o.n.d protocol of... 3671
3157

Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruc-

tion in China .

3139

Postal Union, Universala.t..ion

-

World Health Organiz , constitu 2679

Joint Export-Import Agency (United States- United Kingdom) , Functions,

Lend-Lteiaosne.,.. Settlement for. See also Mutual Aid Settlement Agreements.

Etc.:

Agreements with--

3984

Economic fusion of American and

2850

British Zones of Occupation - - - - 3646

Belgium.... Czechoslovakia

Ferrous scrap for export, allocations of 3599

INDEX

CCXIII

Liberia :

Page Mexico- Continued

Passport visas .

3930 International Labor Organization, con-

World Health Organization, constitu-

tion___

2679

stitution, instrument of amendment, 1946____

Lisbon, Portugal, air transport service

through, agreement with Spain__ 4078 , 4081

Luxembourg :

Claims, World War II, settlement of.. Economic cooperation , agreement of
July 3 , 1948 , amendment_ _ _ _ _ _ _ Educational foundation , U. S. , estab-
lishment .. General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, Oct. 30, 1947Final Act, accession of signatories,
protocol__

4006 3750 3451
3663

Protocol modifying part II and article XXVI ..........
Rectifications , second protocol of---International Refugee Organization,
constitution_ _ _ _ Mutual aid settlement .

3679 3671
3037 4003

Agreements with Belgium respecting-

Claims against U. S...

3985

Lend-lease articles, retransfer by

Belgian Government _ - _ - _-

4001

U. S. expenditures in Luxembourg,

payment of_____

3987

U. S. property in Luxembourg . 3985, 3997

Postal Union, Universal____ Reparations from Germany, apportion-
ment of shares between India and Pakistan ...

3157 2613

Trade, application of most-favored-nation treatment to occupied areas .
World Health Organization , constitution__.

2917 , 3653
2679

Postal Union, Universal_

World Health Organization , constitution _...

Military Aircraft, Flights of, agreement with Canada .......
Routes ...

Military and Security Measures in Korea, withdrawal of U. S. Forces ..

Military Assistance to Philippines, agree-

ment of March 21 , 1947, modification of______

Military Governors, U. S. and U. K., in Germany :
Functions respecting--

Ferrous scrap exports, allocation of Relief supplies and packages to occu-
pied areas Military Missions :

Argentina, advisory mission.. Ecuador .

Iran , Imperial Iranian Gendarmerie ...

Military Obligations of Persons Having Dual Nationality, agreement with France__.
Military Relief Program , Civilian Supplies Furnished Under, Agreements With :

Belgium .... LuxembourgMineral Resources Survey,
Program, Brazil.........

Cooperative

Mines, Bureau of, Department of the Interior, cooperation with Brazil in mineral resources survey program .--

Monetary Gold. See Gold, Monetary, Restitution .

Morocco, Universal Postal Union____
M Most-Favored-Nation Treatment to Occu-

Madden Dam Bypass Road, Canal Zone, agreement with Panama respecting Colón Corridor .__.
Madrid, Air Transport Service Through, agreement with Spain_____.
Mandated Territory of South -West Africa, application of Universal Postal Union to ....
"Marechal Joffre" Claims , multilateral agreement respecting ..
Mesopotamia . See Iraq. Meteorological Data , Exchange of, Cuba Mexico :
Agricultural workers, migration to U. S. Fisheries mission__ . Health and sanitation program, cooper-
ative ....

pied Areas. See Trade, Most-Favor-

ed-Nation Treatment, Etc.

Motion Picture Films, American, distribu-

3935

tion and exhibition in French Union ..

Distribution quota ----

4078

Dubbing rule, two-year.. Fifteen-situations restriction_.

Financial agreement ..

3341

Raw stock, allocation .. Screen quota_---

2841 3134

Multilateral Agreements, Etc.: Austria, Allied Commission for, machinery of control_. Caribbean Commission , establishment .

3887 3575
3978

Claims, Marechal Joffre _--General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, Oct. 30, 1947Final Act, accession of signatories,
protocol___

Page
3485 3157 2679 3943 3947 3817
3870
3598 3860 2808 3018 3843
3621
3984 4003 3636
3636
3157
3001 3005 3004 3004 3005 3004 3004
4036 2618 2841
3663

INDEX

CCXIV
Multilateral Agreements, Etc.-- Continued General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade-Continued Protocol modifying part II and article
XXVI ............ Rectifications , second protocol of ... Indo -Pacific Fisheries Council, estab-

Page Netherlands-Continued

Page

Trade, application of most-favored-na-

tion treatment to occupied areas... 2921, 3653

World Health Organization , constitution. 2679

3679 Netherlands Indies, Universal Postal

3671

3157

Union ...

lishment.. International Labor Organization , con-
stitution, instrument of amend-

ment, 1946........ International Refugee

Organization

,

con-

stitution___ Postal Union , Universal.. Reparations from Germany-
Apportionment of shares between In-

dia and Pakistan .. Gold transferred by Germany to Bank
for International Settlements,

3711 New Zealand : Educational Foundation, U. S. , estab-

2802

3485

lishment ... General Agreement on Tariffs and

3037 3157
2613

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947Final Act, accession of signatories,
3663 protocol. Protocol modifying part II and article
3679 XXVI .... Rectifications, second protocol of... 3671
International Labor Organization, constitution, instrument of amend3485

delivery to U. S., U. K. , and
France ... Trade, application of most-favored-na-
tion treatment to occupied areas of
Western Germany . World Health Organization , constitu-
tion ... Mutual Aid Settlement Agreements :
Belgium . Czechoslovakia ....

2672
3653 2679 32988540 3826

Intermneantito,na1l946_R_e_f.ugee Organization,

3037

constitution .....

3157

Postal Union, Universal___

Reparations from Germany, apportion-

ment of shares between India and

2613

Pakistan World Health

O..r.ganization

,

constitution.

2679

Newfoundland , Flights of Military Aircraft

in Territory of, agreement with 3943

France ---Luxembourg..
N

4003

Canada ...

Nicaragua, World Health Organization,

2679

constitution____

Naturalization and Immigration Service , U. S. See Immigration and Natural-

NoGrewnaeyra: l Agreement on Tariffs and

ization Service, U. S. Naval Charter for Lease of Vessels , agree-

FinTarladAec, tO,cta.c3ce0s,s1io9n47o-f signatories, 3663

ment with Philippines.... Netherlands :

3870

Protopcrooltomcoodli.f..ying part II and article

·

3679

Caribbean Commission , establishment.. 2618 General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, Oct. 30 , 1947Final Act , accession of signatories,

RectiXfiXcVatIio.n.s.,.second protocol of---- 3671
International Labor Organization, constitution, instrument of amend3485

protocol__ Protocol modifying part II and article
XXVI ... Rectifications , second protocol of----

3663
3679 3671

Gold, monetary , restitution to, agree-

ment with Spain .....

4071

Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council, estab-

lishment ..

3711

International Labor Organization , constitution , instrument of amend-

ment, 1946___

3485

International Refugee Organization, constitution ....
Postal Union, Universal ...

3037 3157

Reparations from Germany, apportionment of shares between India and

Pakistan ..

2613

ment, 1946 ..

Organization,

International Refugee

3037

Passpcoornsttivtiustaiso,n_w_a_iver of certain, for 3649

American citizens ..

3157

Posta ReparlatUinoinosn, Universal from Germa..ny, apportionment of shares between India and 2613

TradPea,kaipsptlainc.a.tion of most-favored-nation treatment to occupied areas . 2962543, 3

World Health Organization, constitution. 2679
Norwegian Dependencies, Certain, waiver ofpassport visas for American citizens, 3649

Norway-

INDEX

CCXV

Occupation. U S. Troops in Korea, claims resulting from ....
Occupation Zones in Germany, American and British. See United States and United Kingdom Zones of Occupation, Germany.
Occupied Areas , Most- Favored -Nation Treatment to. See Trade , Most- Favored-Nation Treatment, Etc.
OEEC. See European Economic Cooperation, Organization of.
P Pakistan :
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Oct. 30, 1947--
Final Act, accession of signatories, protocol_____
Protocol modifying part II and article XXVI ....
Rectifications, second protocol of____ International Labor Organization , con-
stitution, instrument of amendment, 1946 ----Reparations from Germany, apportionment of shares with India . ---Trade, application of most-favorednation treatment to occupied areas of Western Germany... Pan American Grace Airways, Air Transport Services , agreement with Chile respecting Pan American Highway, improvement of, agreement with Guatemala . Pan American Sanitary Bureau, integration with World Health Organization . Pan American Sanitary Conferences , integration with World Health Organization__ Panama : Colón Corridor , location of.... Educational program, cooperative _-Passport visa fees_ Postal Union, Universal.. World Health Organization, constitution___ Panama Canal Zone , Agreements Respecting : Air transport services in, agreement with Chile _- _ - _Colón Corridor, location of, agreement with Panama_. Paraguay : Educational program, cooperative -----
Postal Union , Universal... World Health Organization, constitu-
tion__.

Page Paris Agreement of January 14, 1946,

3433

Supplementary Protocol, apportionment of reparation shares between India and Pakistan___. Passport Visa Fees : Denmark . Panama .. United Kingdom ... Passport Visas : Belgium. Iceland .

Italy ... Liberia ----

Norway, waiver of certain, for American citizens ..

Patents, Rights of Priority in Filing Application for, Philippines ----
People's Republic of Albania. See Albania.

3663 People's Republic of Bulgaria. See Bul-

garia . 3679 Persia. See Iran. 3671 Peru :

3485 2613 3653

Agricultural experiment station at Tingo María...
Cooperative programsEducation____ Food production ...
Postal Union, Universal ... World Health Organization , constitu-
tion_.

Philippine Rehabilitation Act of 1946,

payment of public and private claims

3769

under....

Philippine War Damage Commission, pay-

3923

ment of public and private claims,

Philippines ... 2690 Philippines :
Air transport services____

2690
3933 4084 3848 3157
2679

Claims, public, private, payment of.... Copyright, reciprocal relations respect-
ingEducational Foundation, U. S. , agree-
ment of Mar. 23, 1948, amendment ... Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council , establishment ... International Labor Organization , constitution, instrument of amend-

3769
3933
2824 , 3447 3157

ment, 1946_____ Naval charter for lease of vessels .--- ~ .
Patents, rights of priority in filing applications for..
Postal Union, Universal..World Health Organization, constitu-
tion_ . Poland :
International Labor Organization, con-

2679

stitution, instrument of amendment, 1946__ .

Page
2613 4068 3848 3824 3707 3941 3480 3930 3649 3461
3474 3866 3584 3157 2679
2819
2819 3023 2819 2996
3805 3711
3485 3870 3461 3157 2679
3485

INDEX

CCXVI

Page Postal Union- Continued

Page

Poland-Continued Postal Union, Universal . World Health Organization , constitu-
tion_.

3157 2679

Portugal: Economic cooperation .... International Labor Organization , con-
stitution, instrument of amend-

2856

Postal correspondence -Continued

Charges -Continued

Transit .

3333, 3334, 3339, 3380-

3388, 3407, 3408, 3410, 3411 , 3415

3340

Transshipment ----

Warehousing at Aden .........

3340

Closed mails__

3335, 3350,

3374, 3381-3383, 3407 , 3411 , 3415

ment, 1946____ Postal Union , Universal . Trade , application of most-favored-
nation treatment to occupied areas -

3485 3157
2845

World Health Organization , constitu-
tion .. Postal Union, Universal , Revision of Con-

2679

vention of May 23 , 1939, multi-

lateral .. Accounting, adjustment of accounts_

3157 3385-

3388, 3394-3396 , 3409-3412

Customs clearance -------- 3323, 33335244,, 33431644 Delivery to addressee only ...
3372, 3373, 3375Dispatches-3379, 3382, 3390, 3410, 3413, 3414

Exchange of mails ...

3372-3379

FormsAV 1 - AV 7 (airmail) ....

3293-3299 3251-3278

C1- C 26___

3319

Language of

3392

FoUrswaerodfi,npgu;bluincd-e-l-i-vered correspond-

3309, 3340

Adherences ....

3339, 3402-3415

Airmail

Annex , agreement with United Nations . 3342-

3346

Arbitration___

3312

Colonies , protectorates , etc. , application

of convention to ..
Committees . Conferences . Congresses - Constitution and aims .. Convention, English text ..
Effective date , duration_

3310, 3311 , 3341 3313 , 3314, 3315
3315, 3392 3312 , 3313 , 3392
3309 3308-3336
3336

Correspondence, articles of--

Acceptance, conditions for ._____ 3353-3363

Franked articles ; general-delivery

articles ; panel envelopes .-Exceptional relations___ Final protocol of convention ..........

3354 3312 3337-3341

Freedom of transit, provisions respect-

3318, 3335, 3339, 3402

ingInternational Bureau ....

3317 ,

3385 , 3392-3399, 3408

ence 3327, 3366, 3367, 3368, 3430226, 3340564 Franking privilege ---Inquiries, requests for information . 3328,
3370, 3371
3406 Insured articles .. Operations, upon departure and ar- 3364-3372
rival..
Postage rates . 3319, 3320, 333179,, 33333387,, 3430531 Equivalents .. Postal identity cards .... 3319 , 3389, 332924 33 ,
Prepa33y2m5e,nt33. 26, 3352 , 3356, 3365, 3366, 3391
3318, 3324 Prohibitions .. Reply coupons, international......... .. 3326,
3338, 3388, 3394

Special provisions applicable to each 3355-3363

Appcllaiscsa_t_ion of rates, exception to.. 3338 3321, 3357

Commercial papers-

3321, 3362

"Phonopost" Post cards.. Prints .

3355, 3356 3357-3360 3321, 3360-3362

Jurisdiction, extent of... Legislation, domestic . Letter bills ..

3311 3310 3372, 3382, 3414

Monetary standard___

3318

Penal measures , obligations relative to 3335

Postage Allocation of..

3333

Samples .. Special-delivery articles ... 3324, 3365, 3374 Unprepaid, insufficiently prepaid
3322, 3351, 3365, 3405
Warsahritpicsles.... , mails exchanged with .... 3335, 3383, 3390
3327, Withdrawal, change of address ---3-337, 3369

Stamps , postage-paid impressions --- 3352 , 3372

Propositions in interval between meet3315

Postal correspondence, provisions con-

3319-3336

cerning

Articles, definition of

3319

ChargesFree articles .. Surcharges .

3323, 3355 3322, 3407, 3415

ings .. Protocols, final-

3337-3341

Co Trannvsepnotritoant...i...o.n of regular mails by 3415

air....

INDEX

CCXVII

Postal Union-Continued

Page

Provisions concerning transportation of

regular mails by air....

3400-3414

Appendix (Forms AV 1 - AV 7) . 3293-3299

Final Protocol of Provisions_

3415

Registered articles_____

3329-

3332, 3338, 3363, 3374, 3406

Charges .-Receipts, return .........

3329 3329, 3363, 3364, 3406

Responsibility .. Regulations, general .. Regulations of Execution .

3329-3332, 3406 3318
3310, 3350-3399

Appendix (Forms C 1- C 26) ____ 3251-3278

Relief Supplies and Packages, Duty- Free Entry, Payment of Transportation Charges :
Agreements withFrance ... Germany, U. S./U. K. occupied areas. Italy . United Kingdom ...
Reparations, German. See under Ger-
many. Rumania, Universal Postal Union_____
Rural Reconstruction, Joint Commission on, China.....

Page
3587 3860 3809 3798
3157 3139

Restricted unions, special agreements . 3310

Routing of mails_ .

3351

Signatures ... Romanization___

3188-3200 3416-3421

Statistics, preparation of

3344

Accounting-

3409

Postal..

3397

Transit ___

3380

Territorial application . --

3311

Territories not included, intermediaries 3312

for ...

Russia. See Soviet Socialist Republics , Union of. S
Saar, Coal Exports From Western Zones of Germany, agreement with France .
Salvador. See El Salvador. San Marino, Republic of, Universal Postal
Union ..... Sanitation. See Health and Sanitation .

Undeliverable articles___.

3368 Saudi Arabia :

United Nations, agreement with ..........

3309, Postal Union, Universal__

3342-3346 World Health Organization, constitu-

Withdrawal from Union____

3312

tion_____

4064 3157 3157 2679

Potatoes, Control of Exports From Canada . Prisoners-of-War, Italian, claims ............ Property and Financial Settlement, Korea. Public Health Service, U. S. , examination
of migrant Mexican agricultural workers_. Public Roads Administration, Colón Corridor, proposed boundary revisions____
R
Radio Broadcasting, engineering standards applicable to allocation of stations , Canada ..........
Radiosonde Stations, Cuba.. Randolph Road Overpass, Colón Corridor,
alteration of boundary ....... Reciprocal Aid, Settlement for :

3717 3853
3422

Scrap, Ferrous, for Export, allocation of, agreement with United Kingdom ...
Scrap Control Authority, U. S.-U. K. , provision for

3890 Siam : Indo-Pacific Fisheries Council , estab-

3933

lishment ... International Labor Organization, con-
stitution , instrument of amend-

ment, 1946 .. Postal Union , Universal__ World Health Organization , constitution .

2652 3134
3933

South Africa , Union of: General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Oct. 30, 1947-- Protocol modifying part II and article
XXVI .... Rectifications , second protocol of...

3598 3600
3711
3485 3157 2679
3679 3671

Agreements with-- Belgium ... France____
Refugee Organization, International. See International Refugee Organization .
Relief, Military. See Military Relief Program , Civilian Supplies Furnished
Under. Relief Packages, negotiations for agree-
ments facilitating entry, agreement with China.........

3984 3826
2950

International Labor Organization, constitution, instrument of amend-
ment, 1946 ... Postal Union, Universal .__. Reparations from Germany, apportion-
ment of shares between India and
Pakistan ... Trade, application of most-favored-na-
tion treatment to occupied areas of
Western Germany .. World Health Organization , constitution.

3485 3157
2613
3653 2679

CCXVIII
South-West Africa, Mandated Territory of, application of Universal Postal
Union to ... Southern Korea. See Korea. Southern Rhodesia , General Agreement on

INDEX

Page Switzerland :

Page

International Labor Organization, con-

3341

stitution , instrument of amend-

3485

ment, 1946 .

3157

Postal Union, Universal...-.

World Health Organization, constitution. 2679

Tariffs and Trade , Oct. 30 , 1947, rec-

Syria :

tifications , second protocol of ------- 3671 General Agreement on Tariffs and

Soviet Authorities in Korea, power furnished by, liquidation of debt for ...
Soviet Socialist Republic of Byelorussia. See Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Re-

3432

public. Soviet Socialist Republic of Ukraine.
See Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Re-

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947 : Final Act, accession of signatories,
3663 protocol .. Protocol modifying part II and article
3679 XXVI .. Rectifications , second protocol of... 3671
International Labor Organization , con-
stitution, instrument of amend-

public . Soviet Socialist Republics , Union of:
Allied Commission for Austria, ma-

3485

ment, 1946 ..

3157

Postal Union, Universal _---

World Health Organization , constitution. 2679

chinery of control..

4036

Postal Union, Universal ..

3157

T

Power furnished by Soviet authorities in

Korea, liquidation of debt for, 3432 Tan-Son -Nhut Airport, Indochina , air

agreement with Korea... World Health Organization , constitution.

2679

service facilities at, agreement with 4102

TeleFprhaonncee .a.n.d Telegraph Lines, Alaska

Spain : Air transport services.. Monetary gold, restitution of..

4078, 4081 4071

Highway, communication system be-
tween Edmonton, Canada, and Fair3884

Spitsbergen, Waiver of Passport Visas for

banks, Alaska..

American Citizens Traveling to,
Norway--Strategic Materials, transfer by China___ Surpilnuasm M, iUlniitvaerrysaElquPiopstmaelntU,niCoann_a_d_a__...

Thailand . See Tingo María,

Siam Peru,

.

Agricultural

Experi-

3649

2950

ment Station at, agreement with 3474

3195172 TradPee, ruM.o.s..t-Favored -Nation Treatment

to Occupied Areas, Agreements : 2876

Surplus Property Act of 1944 : Educational activities , use of funds for-
Belgium... France..
Italy . Luxembourg. New Zealand....... United Kingdom . Surplus War Property, Settlement for :

3451 3625 3468 3451 2802 3577

Agreements with-- 3984, 3990
Belgium .....
Philippines , Mar. 23 , 1948 , amend-

ment..

3805

Sweden : Import restrictions , quantitative, and deferment of payments, extension of agreement of June 24 , 1947 . International Labor Organization, constitution, instrument of amend-
ment , 1946 ... Trade, application of most-favored-na-
tion treatment to occupied areas . -
Postal Union, Universal... Swiss Confederation. See Switzerland.

2647
3485 2930 3157

Austria ...

2880

Belgium..

2982

China ...

2883

Denmark ..

2887

France ...

GeFrrmeancnhy-Zone of Occupation, reciprocal 2891

U.

application ... S./U. K. Zone

of Occupation,

2895

reciprocal application ---

2899

Greece ...

2903

Iceland ..

2910

Ireland ..

2913

3790

Italy..

Korea...

2917

LMuulxteimlbatoeurragl-, -respecting Western Ger- 3653

2921 many-

Netherlands .

2924

2845

Norway-- 2930

Portugal..

Sweden ..

2934

2941 Turkey--

United Kingdom .

INDEX

CCXIX

Trade , Reciprocal, rendering inoperative Page |Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. See Page

agreements of Feb. 2 , 1935 , Apr. 17, 1935 , Brazil.____ Trademarks , Etc., Used in Yugoslavia by

Soviet Socialist Republics, Union of. 2799 United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland :

U. S. Enterprises, protection____

2660

Trans-Isthmian Highway, Colón Corridor,

Allied Commission for Austria, machin-

ery of control_ .

4036

location of, Panama ..

3933 Caribbean Commission, establishment.. 2618

Transjordan, World Health Organization,

constitution ..

2679

Educational Commission , U. S. , estab-

lishment ..

3577

Trieste, Free Territory of: British/United States Zone, economic agreement with__ U. S. Occupied Areas, most-favorednation treatment to, agreements

3026

Colonial dependencies, U. K. , participation in program_
Ferrous scrap for export, allocation of__ General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, Oct. 30, 1947-

3578 3598

withAustria ..
Belgium.. China_. Denmark.. France ..

2876 2880 2982 2883 2887

Final Act, accession of signatories, protocol ...
Protocol modifying part II and article XXVI ..
Rectifications , second protocol of---Germany, economic fusion of American

3663
3679 3671

GermanyFrench Zone of Occupation -----

2891

and British Zones of Occupation ... 3645 Gold transferred by Germany to Bank

U. S./U. K. Zones of Occupation .. Greece Iceland Ireland .. Korea... Luxembourg .... Netherlands_
Norway Portugal.. Sweden . Turkey .. United Kingdom .. Troop Pay and Procurement, U. S. Armed Forces in : Belgium .... France and French overseas territories__

2895 2899 2903 2910 3792 2917 2921 2924 2845 2930 2934 2941
3988 3826

for International Settlements, delivery . International Labor Organization, constitution, instrument of amendment, 1946International Refugee Organization, constitution__. Passport visa fees .. Postal Union, Universal.. Relief supplies and packages , duty-free entry and payment of transportation charges on.. Reparations from Germany, apportionment of shares between India and Pakistan Trade, application of most-favored-

2672
3485 3037 3824 3157
3798
2613

Tropical Agricultural Station of Ecuador,

building program at .... 3606, 3607, 3610, 3619

Tunisia, Universal Postal Union ---

3157

Turkey : International Labor Organization, constitution, instrument of amend-
ment , 1946____. Postal Union, Universal... Trade, application of most-favored-
nation treatment to occupied areas . World Health Organization, constitu-
tion ..

3485 3157
2934
2679

U

nation treatment to occupied areas .

World Health Organization, constitution--

United Nations :

Food and Agriculture Organization, establishment of Indo-Pacific Fish-

eries Council___

Headquarters, loan agreement for construction and furnishing of___
International Labor Organization , constitution, instrument of amend-

ment, 1946___ International Refugee
constitution .......

Organization ,

2941 , 3653 2679
3711 3725
3485 3037

Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic : Postal Union, Universal... World Health Organization, constitution___.
Union of South Africa. See South Africa, Union of.

3157 2679

Postal Union, Universal, agreement

with ....

3309, 3342-3346

Exchange of information and docu-

ments ...

3343

Implementation of agreement, supplementary arrangements for... 3345

INDEX

CCXX

United Nations-Continued Registry of agreements-- Economic cooperation-

China ... Korea ..

Portugal. Trieste, Free

Territory

of,

British/

U. S. Zone .... General Agreement on Tariffs and

Trade, Oct. 30, 1947Final Act, accession of signatories ,
protocol for... Protocol modifying part II and
article XXVI__ Rectifications, second protocol of__ International Labor Organization ,
constitution , instrument of amend-

Page

V

Page

Vatican City State, Universal Postal Un-

3157 ion .....

2953 Venezuela :

3797 Civil aviation mission _._.

2666

2863 International Labor Organization , con-

stitution, instrument of amend-

3034 3664

3485

ment, 1946-

3157

Postal Union , Universal..

World Health Organization , constitu-

2679

tion___. Vienna Municipality, civil administration

4041

by... 3692 Visas, Passport. See Passport Visas.

3671

W

War Property, Surplus. See Surplus War

Intermneantito,n1a9l46R.efugee Organization,
constitution ----World Health Organization , constitu-
tion .... Trade, most-favored-nation treatment
to occupied areas of Western Ger-

3486 3047 2694

Property, Settlement for.

Weather Stations , Cooperative Program,

3134

Cuba.....

West Indian Conference :

2621

Composition , functions , meetings ............-

2618

Establishment .. Western Zones of Germany. See under

many, deposit of original agree-
ment, registry .. World Health Organization, constitu-

3655

WhiteGheorrmsaen, yC. anada, land line communication system along Alaska Highway. 3884

tion ....

2679 Workers , Agricultural, Mexican, migra3887

United States and United Kingdom Zones
of Occupation , Germany : Economic fusion . Relief supplies and packages__. Trade, reciprocal application of most-
favored-nation treatment _--- .

tion to U. World Health

SO.r.g.anization

,

constitution

3645 3860
2895

2679

of, multilateral ...

2792

AAcmceenpdtmaencnet,sU,.prSo...v...i...sion concerning.... 2693 2683

Assembly, World Health ...

2690

United States Educational Commission.

Budget and expenses ..

2688

See Educational Commission , U. S. , Establishment . United States Educational Foundation. See Educational Foundation, U. S. ,
Establishment . United States Occupied Areas , Most-Fa-
vored -Nation Treatment to. See Trade, Most -Favored - Nation Treatment,

Committees .. Conferences__. Entry into force.. Executive Board. Functions ... HInetaedgqruaatritoenr, s .Pan
Bureau, Pan
Conferences ..

American American

2688 2694 2686 2681 2689
Sanitary Sanitary
2690 2693

Etc. United States Zone , Germany. See under
Germany . Universal Postal Union. See Postal Union ,

ILnetgearlprceatpaatciiotny...,.p.rivileges, immunities.- 2692 2682

Membership -.-.

2689

Regional arrangements .--.

2692

Relations with other organizations .. 2691

Universal.

Uruguay :

Health and sanitation , cooperative pro-

4108, 4117 , 4128

gram .... Postal Union , Universal____.

3157

World Health Organization, constitu-

tion .....

2679

USEFP . See Educational Foundation , U.

Reports by members ... Secretariat..
Signatures Romanization ..
United NationsRegistry with... Relationship to ..
VotSiunsgpe-n--sion of voting

2687 2770-2790 2794-2798
2694 2692 2691 2682 privileges ....

S., Establishment.

INDEX

CCXXI

Y Yugoslavia :
Claims, pecuniary, U. S. Government, U. S. nationals .
Assets in U. S. , unblocking ---. Dollar bonds of predecessor govern-
ments, recognition ____ Trademarks, etc. , used by U. S. enter-
prises , protection ..

Page Yugoslavia--Continued

Postal Union, Universal___.

2658 2663

Reparations from Germany, apportionment of shares between India and

2663 2660

Pakistan ....-World Health Organization , constitu-
tion_____

Page 3157
2613 2679



5385608680538560

THE OSU COLLEGE OF LAW LIBRARY 3 2437 01094 0001

